<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061221_10-K_edgar_data_77597_0000950137-06-014000_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>738977</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>183394</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4211</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>335360</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>58</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950137-06-014000.hdr.sgml : 20061221
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061221163710
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950137-06-014000
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20061028
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061221
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061221

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SPARTECH CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000077597
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MISCELLANEOUS PLASTIC PRODUCTS [3080]
		IRS NUMBER:				430761773
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-05911
		FILM NUMBER:		061293716

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		120 S CENTRAL AVE
		STREET 2:		STE 1700
		CITY:			CLAYTON
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63105
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3147214242

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		120 S CENTRAL AVE
		STREET 2:		STE 1700
		CITY:			CLAYTON
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63105

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SPARTAN MANUFACTURING CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19830621

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PERMANEER CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19781019

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 VHZLGvyfdbWwMVSCcLtwQch+eoIlivryQc0/tAKrsA5YrzcpVi7VeypgENJQaMoz
 HivTwzxRuHxHcyWqklub0Q==

 0000950137-06-014000.txt : 20061221

10-K
 1
 c10994e10vk.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, DC 20549 

Form 10-K 

For the fiscal year ended October 28, 2006

OR 

For the transition period from                        to                       

1-5911  
  (Commission File Number)  

SPARTECH CORPORATION 

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 

Delaware  
 (State or other jurisdiction  
of incorporation or organization) 

43-0761773  
 (I.R.S. Employer 
Identification No.)  

120 S. Central Avenue, Suite 1700 
Clayton, Missouri 63105 
(314) 721-4242  
 (Address, including zip code, and telephone number, including 
area code, of registrant s principal executive offices) 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Stock, $.75 par value 

New York Stock Exchange  

Title of Each Class 

Name of Exchange of Which Registered  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act. 
YES         NO    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act. 
YES         NO    

Indicate by checkmark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2)
has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES          NO    

Indicate by checkmark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer  and  large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large Accelerated Filer         Accelerated Filer         Non-Accelerated Filer    

Indicate by checkmark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). 
YES         NO    

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was
approximately  $757,962,804  on April 29, 2006. There were  32,252,732  total shares of common stock
outstanding as of November 30, 2006.

Documents incorporated by reference 

1) Portions of the Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
(Part III).

SPARTECH CORPORATION 
FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 28, 2006 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Cautionary Statements Concerning Forward-Looking Statements   

1 

PART I   

Item 1.  
       
       Business 

2 

Item 1A.  
       
       Risk Factors 

5 

Item 1B.  
       
       Unresolved Staff Comments 

7 

Item 2.  
       
       Properties 

7 

Item 3.  
       
       Legal Proceedings 

7 

Item 4.  
       
       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

7 

PART II   

Item 5.  
       
       Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

8 

Item 6.  
       
       Selected Financial Data 

9 

Item 7.  
       
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations 

10 

Item 7A.  
       
       Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

22 

Item 8.  
       
       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

23 

Report of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm on Consolidated Financial Statements 

24 

Report of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

25 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

26 

Consolidated Statements of Operations 

27 

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity 

28 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

29 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

30 

Item 9.  
       
       Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure 

49 

Item 9A.  
       
       Controls and Procedures 

49 

Item 9B.  
       
       Other Information 

49 

PART III   

Item 10.  
       
       Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

50 

Item 11.  
       
       Executive Compensation 

51 

Item 12.  
       
       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 

51 

Item 13.  
       
       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 

51 

Item 14.  
       
       Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

51 

PART IV   

Item 15.  
       
       Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

52 

SIGNATURES   

54 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 

F-1 

Subsidiaries of the Registrant    
     Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
     Chief Executive Officer Section 302 Certification    
     Chief Financial Officer Section 302 Certification    
     Section 1350 Certifications    

Table of Contents   

CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Statements in this Form 10-K that are not purely historical, including statements which
express the Company s belief, anticipation or expectation about future events, are forward-looking
statements. These statements may be found in (i) the description of the Company s business in Item
1, (ii) the description of legal proceedings in Item 3 and (iii) Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7. These sections include
statements about new products and market benefits, expected operating trends, future capital
expenditures, expenditures for environmental compliance, and anticipated cash flow and borrowings.

Forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995 relate to future events and expectations, include statements containing such words as
 anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   expects,   would,   should,   will,   will likely result, 
 forecast,   outlook,   projects,  and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based
on management s current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other
factors, many of which management is unable to predict or control, that may cause actual results,
performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the
forward-looking statements. In addition to the risk factors discussed in Item 1A, other important
factors which could impact our operations and results include:

(a) 
       
     adverse changes in economic or industry conditions including global supply and demand
conditions and prices for products of the types we produce; 

(b) 
       
     material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the packaging,
transportation, building and construction, recreation and leisure, and other markets, some
of which tend to be cyclical; 

(c) 
       
     our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies,
growth or other benefits anticipated from acquired businesses and their integration; 

(d) 
       
     volatility of prices and availability of supply of energy and of the raw materials that
are critical to the manufacture of our products, particularly plastic resins derived from
oil and natural gas, including future effects of natural disasters; 

(e) 
       
     our inability to manage or pass through an adequate level of increases to customers in
the costs of materials, freight, utilities, or other conversion costs; 

(f) 
       
     our inability to predict accurately the costs to be incurred or savings to be achieved in
connection with announced production plant restructurings; 

(g) 
       
     our failure to compete effectively with companies offering products based on alternative
technologies and processes that may be more competitive in price or better in performance; 

(h) 
       
     adverse findings in significant legal or environmental proceedings or our inability to
comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations; 

(i) 
       
     adverse developments with work stoppages or labor disruptions, particularly in the
automotive industry; 

(j) 
       
     our inability to achieve operational efficiency goals or cost reduction initiatives; 

(k) 
       
     our inability to develop and launch new products successfully; 

(l) 
       
     restrictions imposed on us by instruments governing our indebtedness, and the possible
inability to comply with requirements of those instruments; and 

(m) 
       
     possible weaknesses in our internal controls. 

We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements, except as required by law.

1 

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1. BUSINESS 

General 

Spartech Corporation (the  Company  or  Spartech ) was incorporated in the state of Delaware
in 1968, succeeding a business which had commenced operations in 1960. The Company, together with
its subsidiaries, is an intermediary processor of engineered thermoplastics. The Company converts
base polymers or resins purchased from commodity suppliers into extruded plastic sheet and
rollstock, specialty film laminates, acrylic products, specialty plastic alloys, color concentrates
and blended resin compounds, and injection molded and profile extruded products. Our products are
sold to original equipment manufacturers and other customers in a wide range of end markets.

Spartech is organized into two reportable segments and one group of operating segments based
on the products we manufacture. The two reportable segments are Custom Sheet and Rollstock and
Color and Specialty Compounds with the remaining businesses grouped together in Engineered
Products. Net sales, operating earnings and total assets attributable to each segment are located
in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Sales by segment and group were Custom Sheet
and Rollstock 64%, Color and Specialty Compounds 31% and Engineered Products 5% in 2006.
Information with respect to acquisition and divestiture activities by Spartech is set forth in Note
2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. A description of the segments and group of operating
segments, including its principal products and markets, is summarized below.

Custom Sheet and Rollstock  

The Custom Sheet and Rollstock segment is the largest manufacturer of plastic sheet, custom
rollstock, laminates, and cell cast acrylic sheet in North America. The principal raw materials
used in manufacturing sheet and rollstock are plastic resins in pellet form. We sell sheet and
rollstock products principally through our own sales force, but we also use a limited number of
independent sales representatives. We produce and distribute the products from facilities in the
United States, Canada, Mexico and France. Its finished products are formed by its customers that
use plastic components in their products. Our custom sheet and rollstock is utilized in several
end markets including packaging, transportation, building and construction, recreation and leisure,
electronics and appliances, signs/advertising and aerospace. The Custom Sheet and Rollstock
segment is highly competitive and we compete in many different areas with many other companies
because the Company and our customers manufacture a wide variety of products.

Color and Specialty Compounds  

The Color and Specialty Compounds segment comprise operating segments that are aggregated into
a reportable segment based on the nature of the products manufactured. This segment manufactures
custom-designed plastic alloys, compounds, color concentrates, and calendered film for utilization
in numerous applications. The principal raw materials used in manufacturing specialty plastic
compounds and color concentrates are plastic resins in powder and pellet form. We also use
colorants, mineral and glass reinforcements and other additives to impart specific performance and
appearance characteristics to the compounds. The Company sells the segment s products principally
through its own sales force, but also uses independent sales representatives. We produce and
distribute these products from facilities in the United States, Canada, Mexico and France. It
sells custom-designed plastic alloys, compounds, color concentrates and calendered film for
utilization by a large group of manufacturing customers servicing the automotive equipment,
building and construction, food/medical packaging, lawn and garden equipment, electronics and
appliances, and numerous other end markets. The Color and Specialty Compounds segment operates in
highly competitive markets. We compete with some companies which are much larger and have more
extensive production facilities, larger sales and marketing staffs and substantially greater
financial resources.

Engineered Products  

The Engineered Products group comprised of four operating segments that are combined because
each operating segment does not meet the materiality threshold for separate disclosure. The
Spartech Wheels operating segment has three facilities in the United States and Mexico and
manufactures a number of proprietary items including thermoplastic tires and wheels for the
medical, lawn and garden, refuse container, and toy markets. The Spartech Profiles operating
segment is a facility in Canada that manufactures profile window frames and fencing for the
building and construction market. The Spartech Townsend operating segment is a facility in the
United States that manufactures and sells acrylic tubes and rods to a variety of industries. The
Spartech Marine operating segment is a facility in the United States that manufactures and sells
custom made doors, hatches, cabinets and windscreens to boat manufacturers. The principal raw
materials used in our manufacturing of molded tires and wheels, profile and other engineered
products are PVC, acrylics, polyethylene and polypropylene. Our products in this group are
generally manufactured either through injection molding or profile extrusion processes. We sell
the group s products principally through our own sales force, but also use independent sales
representatives and wholesale distributors. The Engineered Products segment is highly competitive
and highly fragmented. Because we manufacture a wide variety of products, we compete in different
areas with many other companies, some of which are much larger and have more extensive production
facilities, larger sales and marketing staffs and substantially greater financial resources.

2 

Table of Contents   

Raw Materials 

The raw materials used in our production processes are largely plastic resins which are
derivatives of crude oil or natural gas and are readily available from a number of suppliers. The
Company has multiple sources of supply for our raw materials and is not significantly dependent on
any one or a few suppliers.

Production 

Spartech utilizes various production operations and methods. The principal production
operations are extrusion, casting, compounding, calendering, printing, lamination and molding
processes. Management believes the equipment, machinery and tooling used in these processes are of
modern design and are well maintained.

Intellectual Property and Trademarks 

The Company has various intellectual property and trademarks. The intellectual property
includes certain product formulations and the trademarks protect names of certain of the Company s
products. These assets are significant to the extent they provide a certain amount of goodwill and
name recognition in the industry. While proprietary intellectual property and trademarks are
important to the Company, management believes the loss or expiration of any intellectual property
right or trademark would not materially impact the Company or any of its segments.

Customer Base 

We sell our products to thousands of customers in a broad range of end markets, with our
largest customer accounting for 5.6% of our 2006 sales. Our top 25 customers represented
approximately 32% of our 2006 sales. Based on our classification of end markets, packaging is our
largest single market, accounting for approximately 23% of our 2006 sales. The packaging market
historically has experienced faster growth and less cyclicality than the other major markets served
by plastics processors. In management s opinion, the Company is not dependent upon any single
customer and the loss of any one customer would not have a materially adverse effect on the
Company s business other than, potentially, on a temporary basis. The following table presents the
Company s sales mix by end market for 2006 and 2005:

Distribution 

Generally, we sell our products through our own sales force, but we also use a limited number
of independent sales representatives and wholesale distributors. Our plants are strategically
located such that their proximity to our customers saves shipping costs, reduces delivery times and
increases our presence in a variety of markets.

Backlog 

We estimate that the total dollar value of our backlog of firm orders as of October 28, 2006
and October 29, 2005 was approximately $109.9 million and $128.2 million, respectively, all of
which we expect to ship within one year. The estimated backlog by segment and group at October 28,
2006 and October 29, 2005 follows (in millions):

3 

Table of Contents   

Competition 

The Company operates in markets that are highly competitive and that environment is expected
to continue. The Company experiences substantial competition in each of its segments and in each
of the geographic areas in which it operates. Generally, we compete on the basis of price, product
performance, quality and customer service. Important competitive factors include the ability to
manufacture consistently to required quality levels, meet demanding delivery times, provide
technical support, exercise skill in raw material purchasing, achieve production efficiencies to
make our products cost effective for our customers, and provide new product solutions to customer
applications. Although no single company competes directly with Spartech in all of its product
lines, various companies compete in one or more product lines. Some of these companies have
substantially greater sales and assets than Spartech, and Spartech also competes with many smaller
companies. The number of the Company s competitors varies by product line, and management believes
that Spartech has a market leadership position in many of these product lines.

Seasonality 

Our sales are seasonal in nature. Fewer orders are placed and less manufacturing activity
occurs during the November through January period. This seasonal variation tends to track the
manufacturing activities of our various customers in each region.

Environment 

The Company s operations are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and
regulations at the national, state and local governmental levels. The nature of the Company s
business exposes it to risks of liability under these laws and regulations due to the production,
storage, transportation, recycling or disposal and/or sale of materials that can cause
contamination or personal injury if they are released into the environment or workplace.
Compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise
relating to the protection of the environment has not had a material effect upon the Company s
capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. It is not anticipated that the Company
will have material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities during the next year.
For additional information regarding risks due to regulations relating to the protection of the
environment as well as our participation in the Lower Passaic River environmental study, see Item
1A.

Employees 

Our total number of employees is approximately 3,425. There are approximately 2,650
production personnel at our facilities, approximately 29% of whom are union employees covered by
several collective bargaining agreements. We consider our employee relations to be good.
Management and administrative personnel total approximately 775 employees, none of whom is
unionized.

Geographic Areas 

We operate in 40 manufacturing facilities in North America and one in Europe. Information
regarding our operations in various geographic segments is located in Note 17 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. Our Canadian, French and Mexican operations may be affected periodically by
foreign political and economic developments, laws and regulations, and currency fluctuations.

Available Information 

Spartech s Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and any amendments to those reports are available without
charge through the Company s Web site on the Internet as soon as reasonably practicable after they
are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. They may be
accessed directly as follows:  www.spartech.com , Investor Relations, SEC Filings.

Our principal executive office is located at 120 South Central Avenue, Suite 1700, Clayton,
Missouri 63105-1705. Our telephone number is (314) 721-4242. Our Web site address is
 www.spartech.com .

4 

Table of Contents   

Item 1A.    RISK FACTORS  

The factors listed below represent the Company s principal risks. These factors may or may
not occur and we are not in a position to express a view on the likelihood of any such factor
occurring. Other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that
is currently available or that we are not currently able to anticipate.

Price increases in raw materials and energy costs could adversely affect operating results and
financial condition.  

In 2006, raw material costs represented 74% of total costs of sales. We purchase various raw
material resins derived from crude oil or natural gas to produce our products. The cost of these
resins has been highly volatile in the last few years with significant price increases. This
volatility of resin costs is expected to continue and may be affected by a number of factors
including political instability or hostilities in oil-producing countries and changes in supply and
demand. We have historically been successful at managing the impact of this volatility on our
margins by passing through price changes to customers, negotiating competitive prices with
suppliers, increasing production efficiencies and controlling inventory levels. While we will
continue to try to manage these costs, the direction and degree of future resin cost changes and
our ability to manage such changes is uncertain. As a result, higher crude oil and natural gas
costs could lead to declining margins, operating results, cash flows and financial condition.

The cyclical nature of our suppliers and customers businesses could adversely affect our sales,
profitability, operating results and cash flows during economic downturns.  

General economic conditions and business conditions of our suppliers  and customers 
industries affect the supply and demand for our products. The businesses of most of our suppliers
and customers can be cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions.
Political instability may lead to financial and economic instability, which could lead to
deterioration in general global economic conditions. Downturns in the businesses that use our
products would adversely affect our sales. Downturns in general economic conditions may result in
diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and lower average selling prices. In
addition, downturns in our customers  industries, even during periods of strong general economic
conditions, could adversely affect our sales, profitability, operating results, cash flows and
financial condition.

We operate in a highly competitive marketplace, which could adversely affect our sales and
financial condition.  

We compete on the basis of product performance, quality, price, availability, security of
supply, product development and customer service. Some competitors are larger than we are in
certain markets and may have greater financial resources that allow them to be better positioned to
withstand changes in our industry. Our competitors may introduce new products based on alternative
technologies that may be more competitive causing us to lose customers which would result in a
decline in our sales volume and earnings. Our customers demand high quality and low cost products and services. The cost and availability of energy and strategic raw materials may continue to deteriorate domestically while improving in the international
market. Given the global competitive marketplace in which we compete, any such change could adversely impact the demand for our products. Competition could cause us to lose market share, exit
certain lines of business, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, each of which could have an
adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

We may incur significant charges or be adversely impacted by the closure of all or part of a
manufacturing facility.  

We periodically assess the cost structure of our manufacturing facilities in order to
manufacture and sell our products in the most efficient manner. Based on our assessments, we may
make capital investments to modernize facilities, move or discontinue manufacturing capabilities,
or close all or part of a manufacturing facility. These changes could result in significant future
charges or disruptions in our operations, and we may not achieve the expected benefits from these
investments which could result in an adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and
financial condition.

We are in the process of implementing a new Enterprise Resource Planning ( ERP ) computer system
which could cause substantial business interruption that could adversely impact our operating
results.  

We are implementing a new ERP system and investing significant financial and personnel
resources into this project. We are using a controlled project plan and believe we have assigned
adequate staffing and other resources to the project to ensure its successful implementation.
However, there is no assurance that the design will meet our current and future business needs or
that it will operate as designed. We are heavily dependent on such computer systems, and any
significant failure or delay in the system implementation, if encountered, would cause a
substantial interruption to our business and additional expense which could result in an adverse
impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition.

We may encounter difficulties in integrating businesses we have acquired, and therefore we may not
realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions.  

In the past several years, we have made strategic acquisitions intended to complement or
expand our business, and may continue to do so in the future. The success of these transactions
will depend on our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions. We
may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, and in managing
strategic investments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we
anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our
business and results of operations.

5 

Table of Contents   

We have a significant amount of goodwill, and any future goodwill impairment charges could
adversely impact our results of operations.  

As of October 28, 2006, we had goodwill of $350.4 million, which is 34% of our total assets.
We completed our annual impairment review required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
( SFAS ) 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  ( SFAS 142 ) during the fourth quarter of 2006,
and recognized a $3.2 million impairment charge in our Engineered Products group. In addition, the
occurrence of a potential indicator of impairment, such as a significant adverse change in business
climate, unanticipated competition, loss of key personnel or a more-likely-than-not expectation
that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of,
would require us to perform another valuation analysis, as required under SFAS 142, for some or all
of our reporting units prior to the next required annual assessment. These types of events and the
resulting analysis could result in additional charges for goodwill which could adversely impact our
results of operations.

We are part of an environmental investigation initiated by the New Jersey Department of
Environmental Protection in 2003 and if our liability is materially different from the amount
accrued, it could impact our results of operations.  

We operate under various laws and regulations governing employee safety and the quantities of
specified substances that may be emitted into the air, discharged into waterways, or otherwise
disposed of on and off our properties. In September 2003, the New Jersey Department of
Environmental Protection issued a directive and the United States Environmental Protection Agency
( USEPA ) initiated an investigation related to over 70 companies, including one of our
subsidiaries, regarding the Lower Passaic River. Our subsidiary subsequently agreed to participate
in a group of over 40 companies in funding $10 million of an estimated $20 million environmental
study by the USEPA to determine the extent and source of contamination at this site, and as of the
end of 2005, it had paid its total commitment of $0.3 million towards this study. In 2006, the
group s technical consultant advised the group of its belief that completion of the environmental
study would significantly exceed the USEPA s original cost estimate. In the fourth quarter of
2006, we recorded a $0.6 million charge in selling, general and administrative expense for our
subsidiary s expected funding to complete the study to be funded over five years, the expected
timeframe of the study. As of October 28, 2006, we had $0.7 million accrued related to this issue.
Due to uncertainties inherent in this matter, management is unable to estimate our potential
exposure, including possible remediation or other environmental responsibilities that may result
from this matter which is not expected to occur for a number of years. These uncertainties
primarily include the completion and outcome of the environmental study and the percentage of
contamination attributable to the subsidiary and other parties. We believe that it is possible
that our ultimate liability resulting from this issue could materially differ from our October 28,
2006 accrual balance. In the event of one or more adverse determinations related to this issue,
the impact on our results of operations could be material to any specific period. However, it is
our opinion that future expenditures for compliance with these laws and regulations, as they relate
to the Lower Passaic River issue and other potential issues, will not have a material effect on our
capital expenditures, financial position, or competitive position.

We are subject to other litigation and environmental regulations that could adversely impact our
operating results.  

The Company is, and in the future may be, subject to various claims, lawsuits, and
administrative proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business with respect to commercial,
product liability, employment, and other matters, several of which claim substantial amounts of
damages. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that existing
litigation or a future adverse development will not have a material adverse impact on the Company.
We also are subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the
discharge of materials into the environment, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of
any noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws.

Access to funding through capital markets is an important part of our business plan and if we are
unable to maintain such access we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and
financial results.  

Our ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing
debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support
short-term borrowings. If we are unable to continue to access the capital markets, we could
experience a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

The Company is subject to a number of restrictive covenants in its credit facilities and breaches
of these covenants could become events of default under the Company s credit facilities and cause
the acceleration of the majority of debt beyond the Company s ability to pay.  

The Company s credit facilities contain a number of restrictive covenants as described in more
detail in Note 10 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. These covenants require the Company
to, among other matters, restrict the incurrence of additional indebtedness, satisfy certain ratios
and net worth levels, and limit both the sale of assets and merger transactions. If breached,
these restrictive covenants would force the Company to negotiate with its bankers to waive the
covenants and could significantly impact the Company s ability to manage its business. In
addition, those covenants could affect the Company s flexibility in making investments and
acquisitions.

6 

Table of Contents   

Item 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None.

Item 2.    PROPERTIES  

The Company operates in 41 manufacturing facilities located in the United States, Canada,
France and Mexico, with 23 facilities in the Custom Sheet and Rollstock segment, 12 facilities in
the Color and Specialty Compounds segment and six facilities in the Engineered Products group. The
manufacturing locations are owned or occupied under operating or capital leases. Additional
information regarding our operations within the various geographic segments is located in Note 17
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the Company leases office facilities for
its corporate headquarters in St. Louis, Missouri and administrative offices in Washington,
Pennsylvania.

Use of the manufacturing facilities may vary with seasonal, economic and other business
conditions. One facility in the Color and Specialty Compounds segment is not being utilized by the
Company and is classified as held for sale as the Company actively looks for a buyer. In addition,
the Company plans to consolidate three existing Custom Sheet and Rollstock production facilities
into one facility during 2007 as described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The
Company believes that its present facilities are sufficient and adequate for the manufacture and
distribution of Spartech s products and generally have sufficient capacity for existing needs and
expected near-term growth.

Item 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  

In addition to the Lower Passaic River matter described in Item 1A  Risk Factors , the Company
is subject to various other claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings arising in the ordinary
course of business with respect to environmental, commercial, product liability, employment and
other matters, several of which claim substantial amounts of damages. While it is not possible to
estimate with certainty the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to these claims,
lawsuits and administrative proceedings, the Company believes that the outcome of these matters
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company s capital expenditures, financial position
or competitive position.

Item 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company s security holders during the fourth
quarter of 2006.

7 

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.  
       
       MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   

Spartech Corporation s common stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) under the symbol  SEH . There were approximately 1,600 shareholders of record at November
30, 2006. The following table sets forth the high and low prices of the common stock and cash
dividends per common share for each quarter of 2006 and 2005:

The Company s Board of Directors reviews the dividend policy each December based on the
Company s previous year s results, and our business plan and cash flow projections for the next
year.

In September 2004, the Company s Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to 1 million
shares under a two-year program which expired in September 2006. A total of 487,200 shares were
repurchased under this program none of which were repurchased in the fourth quarter of 2006. Subsequent to the expiration of this formal plan, the
Company may periodically repurchase shares to reissue upon the exercise of stock options or for
other purposes.

8 

Table of Contents   

Item 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

The selected financial and other data below for the last five years presents consolidated
financial information of Spartech Corporation and subsidiaries and have been derived from our
audited consolidated financial statements.

Our operating history includes significant acquisitions; this data should be read with the
selected historical consolidated financial data set forth below in conjunction with Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our Consolidated
Financial Statements and the notes thereto.

Notes to table : 

(a) 
       
     Calculated as net sales less cost of sales. Gross margin excludes the impact from
amortization expense. 

(b) 
       
     2006 operating earnings were reduced by pre-tax charges of $5.0 million related to
restructuring and exit costs ($1.9 million) and goodwill impairment ($3.2 million). 2005
operating earnings were reduced by pre-tax charges of $20.1 million related to restructuring
and exit costs ($10.1 million), a retirement settlement with our former CEO ($3.6 million),
fixed asset charges ($1.9 million) and goodwill impairment ($4.5 million). 2004, 2003 and
2002 operating earnings were reduced by pre-tax fixed asset charges of $3.5 million, $1.0
million and $0.3 million, respectively. 

(c) 
       
     2006 net income was reduced by a $3.4 million after-tax charge ($5.5 million pre-tax) related
to the early extinguishment of our convertible subordinated debentures. 

(d) 
       
     Calculated as total current assets excluding cash and cash equivalents less total current
liabilities excluding current maturities of long-term debt. 

9 

Table of Contents   

Item 7.    MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations
contains  Forward-Looking Statements . You should read the following discussion of our financial
condition and results of operations with  Selected Financial Data  and our consolidated financial
statements and related notes included elsewhere in this   Form 10-K  . We have based our
forward-looking statements about our markets and demand for our products and future results on
assumptions that we consider reasonable. Actual results may differ materially from those suggested
by our forward-looking statements for various reasons including those discussed in  Cautionary
Statements Concerning Forward-Looking Statements  on page 1 of this   Form 10-K  . 

Business Overview 

Spartech is an intermediary processor of engineered thermoplastics which converts base
polymers or resins purchased from commodity suppliers into extruded plastic sheet and rollstock,
specialty film laminates, acrylic products, specialty plastic alloys, color concentrates and
blended resin compounds, and injection molded and profile extruded products for customers in a wide
range of markets. We operate 40 manufacturing facilities throughout North America and one in
Europe that are organized into two segments and one group as follows:

We consider purchases of certain assets and liabilities that do not qualify as a business for
accounting purposes (referred to as outsourcing acquisitions) as underlying volume growth because
such purchases are comparable to other internal investments such as capital expenditures. The
impact of outsourcing acquisitions on the results of operations is disclosed when material, similar
to our disclosures of the impact of major capital investments.

We assess net sales changes using three major drivers: underlying volume, the impact of
business acquisitions or divestitures and price/mix. Underlying volume is calculated as the change
in pounds sold exclusive of the impact on pounds sold from business acquisitions or divestitures.

Executive Summary 

Net sales increased 6% to $1,486 million in 2006 over 2005 due mostly to selling price
increases. The selling price increases reflect increases in the cost of plastic resins that we use
to manufacture our products, the cost of which we eventually pass along to our customers as selling
price increases. Operating earnings increased to $91.4 million in 2006 versus $57.9 million in
2005, due in part to a $15.1 million reduction of special items in the current year. In 2006, we
incurred $5.0 million of special items including restructuring and exit costs of $1.9 million and
goodwill impairment of $3.2 million. In 2005, we incurred $20.1 million of special items including
restructuring and exit costs of $10.1 million, charges of $3.6 million related to the retirement of
the Company s former CEO, a $1.9 million fixed asset charge, and $4.5 million of goodwill
impairment. In addition, 2006 operating earnings were impacted by $2.5 million of stock option
expense due to the implementation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) 123(R)
 Share Based Payment  ( SFAS 123(R) ). Excluding special items and the impact of stock option
expense, operating earnings increased $21.0 million in 2006 from the prior year due mostly to mix
changes within our three reporting groups, increases in material margins from a higher mix of sheet
sales, and better management of selling prices for changes in resin and conversion costs.

In 2006, we completed a $50 million private placement of debt and amended our U.S. unsecured
bank credit facility which increased our borrowing availability from $200 million to $300 million.
We used the proceeds from the private placement and borrowings from our amended credit facility to
redeem our $150 million convertible subordinated debentures which resulted in a $5.5 million charge
for early debt extinguishment costs. This redemption eliminated the potential dilutive effect of a
future conversion of the convertible subordinated debentures and reduced our cost of borrowing. We
generated strong cash flows from operations in 2006 which allowed us the flexibility to complete
the redemption and pay down $87.4 million of debt. In addition, we made progress on our
restructuring activities by completing the consolidation of three Color and Specialty Compounds
production facilities into one plant and beginning construction of our new sheet facility in
Greenville, Ohio into which we plan to consolidate production activities from three existing
plants.

10 

Table of Contents   

Results of Operations 

Comparison of 2006 and 2005  

Consolidated Summary 

Net sales were $1,485.6 million and $1,396.9 million for the year ended 2006 and 2005,
respectively, representing a 6% increase in 2006. The causes of this percentage increase were as
follows:

Underlying volume

% 

Disposition of business

(1 
     ) 

Price/Mix

7 

6  
     % 

Underlying volume was impacted by the loss of volume associated with the sale of assets of an
operation in our Engineered Products segment in the first quarter of 2006. Excluding the negative
volume impact of this loss, underlying volume increased slightly in 2006 compared to 2005. This
slight volume increase reflected an increase in sales from our Custom Sheet and Rollstock segment,
partially offset by a decrease in volume sold from our other two groups. The disposition of
business impact reflects lost pounds from the sale of our corrugated sheet operation in the Custom
Sheet and Rollstock segment in the fourth quarter of 2005. The price/mix impact reflects sales mix
changes and the management of selling prices for changes in resin and conversion costs.

The following table presents sales, cost of sales, and resulting gross margin in dollars and
on a per pound sold basis for 2006 and 2005. Cost of sales presented in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations includes material and conversion costs, both of which are presented in the
following table. We have not presented cost of sales components as a percentage of net sales
because a comparison of this measure is distorted by changes in resin costs that are passed through
to customers as selling price changes. These changes materially affect the percentages but do not
present accurate performance measures of the business.

The increases in net sales and material costs per pound sold in 2006 reflect sales mix changes
and the management of selling prices in response to increases in costs. The prices of our major
resins increased approximately 4% on a weighted average basis in 2006 over the prior year.
Material margin per pound sold increased 1.7 cents in 2006 over the prior year reflecting sales mix
changes and our focused efforts on managing margins for changes in resin prices and certain
conversion costs.

Conversion costs decreased $2.0 million compared to 2005 reflecting lower labor-related and
other costs due to our restructuring efforts partially offset by higher utilities and freight costs
from higher energy costs. We completed the consolidation of three Color and Specialty Compounds
production facilities into one plant in the fourth quarter of 2006 and began construction of a new
Custom Sheet and Rollstock production facility in Greenville, Ohio in the second quarter of 2006
into which three existing production facilities will be consolidated. Assuming sales volumes and
mix are consistent, we estimate the Color and Specialty Compounds consolidation will reduce annual
conversion costs by $3 million, the benefit of which started in the second half of 2006, and the
Custom Sheet and Rollstock consolidation to reduce annual conversion costs by $2.5 million upon
completion by the end of 2007. The majority of these estimated savings will be from reductions in
labor-related costs and we expect these savings to mitigate increases in other conversion costs.
Refer to Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail regarding these
restructuring efforts.

11 

Table of Contents   

Selling, general and administrative expenses were $75.4 million in 2006 representing a $4.8
million increase over the prior year. The impact of expensing stock options from the adoption of
SFAS 123(R) beginning in 2006 resulted in $2.2 million of additional selling, general and
administrative expense in 2006. The remaining $2.6 million increase was primarily due to increases
in labor-related costs, higher IT-related costs from our company-wide Oracle information system
implementation and a $0.6 million charge related to the Lower Passaic River environmental issue
recorded in 2006, partially offset by savings from the termination of the Company s airplane lease
in the third quarter of 2005 and other corporate cost reduction efforts.

Amortization of intangibles was $4.7 million in 2006 compared to $4.9 million in 2005. The
decrease reflects the final amortization of certain intangibles acquired in 2002.

Adoption of SFAS 123(R) 

In the first quarter of 2006, we adopted SFAS 123(R). Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R),
we had adopted the disclosure-only provisions of SFAS 123 and no expense related to stock options
was recognized in our results of operations. We have implemented SFAS 123(R) using the modified
prospective transition method, which requires the expensing of stock options upon adoption without
restating prior periods. Compensation expense related to stock options was $2.5 million in 2006,
of which $2.2 million was recognized in selling, general and administrative and $0.3 million was
recorded as costs of sales. This resulted in a reduction to diluted earnings per share of 6
cents in 2006. The following table presents the impact of the adoption of SFAS 123(R) and
resulting stock option expense on operating earnings during 2006 (in millions):

As of October 28, 2006, we had $4.3 million of unrecognized compensation cost that is expected
to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.9 years.

Special Items 

In the fourth quarter of 2006, we recorded a $3.2 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge
due to recent changes in our profiles business and the reorganization of the operations, management
and reporting of this business which led to a redefinition of our operating segments comprising our
Engineered Products group and allocation of goodwill to our new profiles reporting unit. The fair
value of our profiles business did not support the $3.2 million goodwill allocation which resulted
in the impairment charge. In the fourth quarter of 2005, we recorded a $4.5 million non-cash
goodwill impairment charge triggered by the underperformance of a profiles business in the
Engineered Products group and the loss of a major customer at another operation in our Color and
Specialty Compounds segment.

In the fourth quarter of 2005, we initiated a plan to consolidate three Color and Specialty
Compounds production facilities into one plant in Donora, Pennsylvania. This restructuring
activity, which was completed in the fourth quarter of 2006, resulted in $1.7 million of cash
restructuring expense in 2006 primarily related to equipment moving and employee severance costs.
In the second quarter of 2006, we began construction of a new Custom Sheet and Rollstock production
facility in Greenville, Ohio into which three existing production facilities will be consolidated.
We expect to complete the construction and move of the existing operations into the new facility by
the end of 2007. This consolidation resulted in $0.2 million of restructuring expense in 2006
primarily related to employee severance costs and accelerated depreciation from a lower useful life
for a building which is expected to be sold upon completion of the consolidation. We estimate this
consolidation will result in $1.0 million of restructuring charges in 2007, about half of which
will be cash expenses.

In the second quarter of 2005, we initiated several strategic changes to enhance short-term
operating performance and longer-term operating efficiencies. The plan involved the consolidation,
sale or closing of seven plant facilities, the shut-down of a calendered film line and other cost
reduction efforts including the termination of the Company s airplane lease. These activities
resulted in $10.1 million of restructuring and exit costs in 2005 of which $7.2 million represented
non-cash charges. As of October 28, 2006, we
had one facility and one calendered film line held for sale remaining from these activities
and these restructuring activities are substantially complete.

In the third quarter of 2005, we entered into a Retirement Agreement with the former chief
executive officer of the Company. This resulted in a $3.6 million charge, of which $0.8 million
represented a non-cash charge.

As part of our Sarbanes-Oxley compliance efforts, we completed a physical count of the
Company s property, plant and equipment in the second quarter of 2005. We reconciled the counts to
amounts recorded in our books and records and

12 

Table of Contents   

identified equipment that was previously disposed.
During our physical counts, we also identified equipment that existed and that we elected to
liquidate. This process resulted in a $1.9 million fixed asset charge in 2005 for impairment on
equipment that we liquidated. Refer to Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for detail
of these non-cash charges including detail by segment and group.

The following tables present the impact of special items on our operating earnings for 2006
and 2005 (in millions):

Operating earnings for 2006 were $91.4 million compared to $57.9 million in 2005 representing
a $33.6 million increase. The increase in operating earnings was impacted by the special items
which resulted in $5.0 million of total expense in 2006 compared to $20.1 million in 2005.
Excluding special items and stock option expense, operating earnings increased $21.0 million in
2006 over 2005 mostly due to a $23.3 million increase in gross margin, partially offset by a $2.6 million increase in selling, general, and
administrative expenses all due to the various reasons previously discussed.

Interest expense, net was $21.0 million in 2006 compared to $25.2 million in 2005. The
decrease in interest expense was due to the benefit realized from our significant debt pay-down in
the second half of 2005 and through 2006 including the extinguishment of our convertible
subordinated debentures. The lower debt levels were partially offset by a higher average interest
rate.

In the third quarter of 2006, we redeemed all $150 million of our convertible subordinated
debentures resulting in $3.8 million of early-payment premium and $1.7 million of non-cash
write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs which were reported in total as early debt
extinguishment costs.

Our effective tax rate was 40.3% in 2006 compared to 44.1% in 2005. The effective rates for
both periods were higher due to the impact of non-deductible goodwill impairment charges.
Excluding the non-deductible portion of goodwill impairment charges, our effective tax rate was
38.4% in 2006 and 39.1% in 2005. The 2006 effective tax rate declined 3.3% when compared to the
2005 rate due to the reduction in the amount of valuation allowance recorded for net operating
losses generated by our Donchery, France operation in 2006 compared to 2005. The net operating
loss carryforwards in France do not expire, and we expect to recognize an associated tax benefit
when this operation generates a level of pre-tax earnings sufficient to offset cumulative
historical pre-tax losses. Partially offsetting the rate improvements outlined above, the
effective tax rate was higher in 2006 by 1.2% due to the impact on the 2005 effective rate from the
implementation of certain state tax planning strategies last year, 0.7% due the expensing of stock
options from the adoption of SFAS 123(R) in 2006 and 0.6% due a reduction in research and
development credits from 2006 to 2005. We have not recorded the benefit of a research and
development tax credit during calendar 2006 as this credit expired on December 31, 2005. In
December 2006, the government approved legislation that extends the credit retroactively. As a result, we will recover this benefit in the first quarter of 2007.

We reported net earnings of $38.8 million in 2006 compared to $18.3 million in 2005. These
amounts reflect the impact of the items previously discussed.

13 

Table of Contents   

Custom Sheet and Rollstock Segment 

Net sales were $943.1 million and $884.3 million for 2006 and 2005, respectively, representing
a 7% increase in 2006. This increase was caused by:

Underlying volume

4  
     % 

Disposition of business

(1 
     ) 

Price/Mix

4 

7  
     % 

The increase in underlying volume is primarily due to additional sales of lower-priced pallet
material to this segment s largest customer and incremental sales from our Mexico operation to a
large customer selling to the home appliance market. The disposition of business impact represents
pounds lost from the sale of our corrugated sheet business in the fourth quarter of 2005. The
price/mix impact reflects the management of selling prices for changes in raw material and
conversion costs, partially offset by the mix impact of an increase in volume sold of lower per
pound priced products.

This segment s operating earnings in 2006 were $75.4 million which compared to $65.1 million
in 2005. The increase in operating earnings in 2006 was impacted by a decrease in special items
and stock option expense associated with the adoption of SFAS 123(R). Excluding the impact of
special items and stock option expense, operating earnings increased $10.8 million in 2006 over the
prior year. This increase was driven by higher volume sold and an increase in material margin from
our focused efforts to manage margins for changes in resin and certain conversion costs, partially
offset by higher conversion costs and an increase in selling, general and administrative expense.
The higher conversion costs reflected higher freight and utility costs partially offset by lower
labor-related expenses, and the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was due to
higher labor-related costs. Improvements from our Ramos Arizpe, Mexico and Donchery, France sheet
operations contributed to the operating earnings increase in 2006 compared to the prior year as
these operations continue to benefit from increased sales volume and improved operational
efficiencies.

Color and Specialty Compounds Segment  

Net sales were $463.0 million and $430.9 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively, representing
a 7% increase. This increase was caused by:

Approximately 93% of sales dollars and 88% of sales volume of this segment represents
proprietary products which include engineered compounds and color concentrates which are made using
formulas and manufacturing processes that are proprietary in nature. The remaining sales of this
segment represents tolling product, which is customer-provided material that we compound for a
conversion fee. The 3% decrease in underlying volume in 2006 compared to the prior year reflects a
decrease in sales of both tolling and proprietary products. Sales volumes of tolling products
decreased due to customer-specific decreases in their business volumes. The decrease in sales
volumes of proprietary products reflects disruptions associated with our Donora consolidation
efforts, particularly in the first and third quarters of the current year, which required us to
temporarily decrease our capacity while we physically moved production lines. The move of
production lines from our former production facilities to our Donora facility substantially
occurred in the first and third quarter of this year. The price/mix increase reflects increases of
selling prices for changes in raw material and conversion costs and a favorable shift in mix
towards higher sales price per pound products.

This segment s operating earnings in 2006 were $27.0 million which compared to $15.3 million
in the same period of the prior year. The increase in operating earnings for both periods was
impacted by a decrease in special items and the impact of stock option expense associated with the
implementation of SFAS 123(R). Excluding the impact of special items and stock option expense,
operating earnings increased $3.9 million in 2006 over the prior year. This increase was driven by
an increase in mix of higher margin sales and an increase in material margin dollars due to our
focused efforts to manage margins for changes in resin and certain conversion costs, partially
offset by higher conversion costs and an increase in selling, general and administrative expense.
The higher conversion costs reflected higher freight and utility costs and the increase in selling,
general and administrative expenses was due to higher labor-related costs as well as the impact of
the $0.6 million increase to the Lower Passaic River environmental accrual.

14 

Table of Contents   

Engineered Products Group  

Net sales were $79.6 million and $81.7 million for 2006 and 2005, respectively, representing a
3% sales decrease in 2006. This decrease was caused by:

The underlying volume decrease reflects the sale of assets of an operation which was part of
our 2005 restructuring activities. Excluding the negative volume impact of these sold assets,
underlying volume decreased 6% in 2006 from the prior year. This decrease reflects lower sales
volume of wheels to the lawn and garden market and a lower volume sold of profile products to the
building and construction market. The positive impact of price/mix reflects the management of
selling prices for changes in raw material and conversion cost fluctuations as well as a favorable
shift in mix towards wheels with a higher selling price per pound.

This segment s operating earnings in 2006 were $4.5 million which compared to an operating
loss of $3.5 million in 2005. The 2006 increase in operating earnings was impacted by a reduction
in special items and the impact of stock option expense associated with the adoption of SFAS
123(R). Excluding the impact of special items and stock option expense, operating earnings
increased $6.1 million in 2006 compared to the prior year. This increase was mostly driven by
profitability improvement in our wheels and profiles businesses resulting primarily from reductions
in labor-related costs.

Corporate 

Corporate includes corporate office expenses and portions of information technology and
professional fees that are not allocated to the segments and group. Corporate expenses are
reported as selling, general and administrative expenses in our Consolidated Statement of
Operations. Corporate expenses as a component of operating earnings were $15.5 million in 2006 and
$19.1 million in the prior year. The comparison for both periods was impacted by a reduction in
special items and stock option expense associated with the impact of SFAS 123(R). Excluding the
impact of special items and stock option expense, corporate expenses decreased $0.2 million in 2006
due mostly to savings from the termination of the Company s airplane lease in the third quarter of
2005, partially offset by an increase in labor-related costs and higher IT-related cost from our
company-wide Oracle information system implementation.

Outlook  

Our business outlook remains positive for 2007. We are coming off of a strong earnings
performance year in 2006, but we expect a slowing economy to result in a challenging growth
environment, particularly in our transportation and building and construction markets during the
early part of 2007. Despite this, we expect our recently completed restructuring activities and
other initiatives to mitigate the impact of the difficult growth environment on earnings. The
Company will have an additional week
during the fiscal year in 2007 which ends on the Saturday closest to October 31 st 
and 2007 will be reported as a 53-week year.

Comparison of 2005 and 2004  

Consolidated Summary 

Net sales were $1,396.9 million and $1,121.7 million for the years ended 2005 and 2004,
respectively, representing a 25% sales increase in 2005. The causes of this percentage increase
were as follows:

The 1% decrease in underlying volume reflects a decrease in pounds sold of lower-priced pallet
material to a customer in our Custom Sheet and Rollstock segment and the loss of toll-compounding
business with a customer of our Color and Specialty Compounds segment. Excluding the negative
volume impact of sales to these two major customers, volume sold increased approximately 3% in 2005
compared to 2004. The 3% increase was mostly driven by sales to the lawn and garden market. Most
of the price/mix impact reflects higher selling prices to customers from the pass through of raw
material price increases.

15 

Table of Contents   

The following table presents sales, cost of sales, and resulting gross margin in dollars and
on a per pound sold basis for 2005 and 2004. Cost of sales presented in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations includes material and conversion costs, the components of which are
presented in the following table. We have not presented cost of sales components as a percentage
of net sales because a comparison of this measure is distorted by changes in resin costs that are
passed through to customers as higher selling prices. These significant changes materially affect
the percentages but do not present accurate performance measures of the business.

The significant increases in net sales and material costs per pound in 2005 compared to 2004
were mostly driven by increases in raw material costs and the impact of passing on these increases
to customers as higher selling prices. Raw material prices for the Company s major resins
increased approximately 20% to 30%, depending upon the type of resin, during 2005 compared to 2004.
Material margin per pound sold increased 0.7 cent in 2005 compared to 2004. This increase was
primarily due to the mix impact of the decrease in sales of the toll-compound and lower-priced
pallet material, both of which have lower material margins per pound, and the favorable mix impact
of the VPI acquisition. The favorable impacts of these items on material margin per pound sold
more than offset the negative impact of other mix changes experienced in 2005 compared to 2004.

Conversion costs per pound sold increased 1.6 cents in 2005 compared to 2004. This increase
reflects the mix impact of the lower volume in sales to the two major customers previously
discussed the impact of the VPI acquisition and other mix changes. In addition, this increase
reflects increases in labor-related costs, utilities and freight coupled with the decrease in
underlying sales volume, particularly in the first quarter of 2005.

Selling and administrative expenses of $70.6 million in 2005 increased $11.9 million, or 20%
from the $58.7 million incurred during 2004. Approximately half of this increase
is due to the VPI acquisition. The remaining half of the increase was due to higher costs
associated with increased information technology costs, Sarbanes-Oxley compliance efforts and
enhancements to accounting and finance resources, partially offset by savings from the termination
of the Company s airplane lease (see subsequent discussion of special items).

Amortization of intangibles was $4.9 million in 2005 compared to $2.8 million in 2004. This
$2.1 million increase primarily reflects amortization of intangibles acquired as part of the VPI
acquisition.

Special Items 

In the second quarter of 2005, we initiated several strategic changes to enhance short-term
operating performance and longer-term operating efficiencies. The plan involves the consolidation,
sale or closing of seven plant facilities and other cost reduction efforts including the
termination of the Company s airplane lease which in total resulted in a $10.1 million net charge
for the year, of which $7.2 million represented non-cash charges. Refer to Note 7 to our
Consolidated Financial Statements for detail of these charges.

In the third quarter of 2005, we entered into a Retirement Agreement with the former chief
executive officer of the Company. This resulted in a $3.6 million charge, of which $0.8 million
represented a non-cash charge. Refer to Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for detail
of these charges.

As part of our Sarbanes-Oxley compliance efforts, we completed a physical count of the
Company s property, plant and equipment in the second quarter of 2005. We reconciled the counts to
amounts recorded in our books and records and identified equipment having a net book value of $8.8
million at the end of April 2005 that was previously disposed or recorded

16 

Table of Contents   

in error upon acquisition
of businesses. Although the previously unrecorded disposals and acquisition accounting errors were
identified in 2005, the charge to write off the equipment has been recorded at the net book value
as of the date of disposition or acquisition, in the respective prior periods. The write-off of
previously unrecorded disposals resulted in a fixed asset charge of $3.5 million and $1.0 million
in 2004 and 2003, respectively. The $3.5 million charge in 2004 includes $3.1 million recorded in
the fourth quarter for which we do not have sufficient evidence to determine a disposal date for
specific equipment with any certainty but do have evidence that these assets were disposed prior to
2005. During our physical counts, we also identified equipment that existed and that we elected to
liquidate resulting in a $1.9 million impairment charge in 2005. Refer to Note 9 to our
Consolidated Financial Statements for detail of these non-cash charges including detail by segment
and group.

In the fourth quarter of 2005, we recorded a $4.5 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge
triggered by the underperformance of one operation and the loss of a major customer at another
operation. Refer to Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for detail of these charges.

Operating earnings in 2005 were $57.9 million compared to $90.9 million in 2004 representing a
$33.0 million decrease. The decrease in operating earnings was adversely impacted by the special
items which resulted in $20.1 million of total expense in 2005. Excluding special items, operating
earnings decreased $16.4 million in 2005 compared to 2004 due to the $2.5 million decrease in gross
margin, the $11.9 million increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses, and the $2.1
million increase in amortization of intangibles, all due to the various reasons previously
discussed.

Interest expense, net was $25.2 million in 2005 compared to $25.4 million in 2004. This
decrease was due to a decrease in the average interest rate from the expiration of our interest
rate swap on November 10, 2004, the benefit realized from our significant debt pay-down in the
second half of 2005, and an increase in interest income, partially offset by the additional
borrowings from the VPI acquisition.

Our effective tax rate was 44.1% and 37.5% for years ended 2005 and 2004, respectively. The
increase in tax rate is attributable to an increase to tax expense in 2005 to establish a $1.1
million valuation allowance to offset a deferred tax asset associated with net operating losses
generated by our Donchery, France operation and non-deductibility of $3.2 million of the goodwill
impairment charge.

We reported net earnings of $18.3 million and $40.9 million for the years ended 2005 and 2004,
respectively. These amounts changed due to the various reasons discussed above.

Custom Sheet and Rollstock Segment 

Net sales were $884.3 million and $729.8 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, representing
a 21% sales increase in 2005. This increase was caused by:

The 1% decrease in underlying sales volume in 2005 reflects a decrease in sales of
lower-priced pallet material to this segment s largest customer due to the expiration of an
intermittent supply contract between this customer and a third party. Excluding this impact,
underlying volume of pounds sold increased approximately 2% in 2005 due primarily to increases in
volume sold to the packaging and appliance markets. The majority of the price/mix impact reflects
higher selling prices to customers from the pass-through of raw material price increases.

This segment s operating earnings in 2005 were $65.1 million, representing a $6.1 million
decrease from the $71.3 million earned in 2004. The decrease in operating earnings was adversely
impacted by $0.6 million of special items. Operating earnings excluding special items for 2005
were $7.9 million less than 2004 mostly because of increases in conversion costs, specifically
labor-related, utilities and freight costs.
Operating earnings were also adversely impacted by losses from operations sold in the current
year of $0.7 million and $0.3 million of inventory write-downs related to exiting a facility.

Color and Specialty Compounds Segment  

Net sales were $430.9 million and $323.4 million for 2005 and 2004, respectively, representing
a 33% sales increase in 2005. This increase was caused by:

17 

Table of Contents   

The decrease in underlying volume of pounds sold of 4% in 2005 compared to 2004 reflects a
decrease in sales of tolling and resale pounds to one customer. Excluding this impact, internal
volume of pounds sold increased 2% in 2005 over 2004 due mostly to an increase in sales volume to
the lawn and garden market. Sales volume trends for this segment s two major product categories,
tolling and resale products and proprietary products (engineered compounds and color concentrates),
as well as pounds sold related to businesses acquired, are presented below:

Tolling products represent customer-provided material that the Company compounds and charges a
conversion fee to the customer. The end markets for the tolling and resale products are generally
managed and developed by our customers. The 26% decrease in pounds sold of tolling and resale
product was mostly due to the decrease in sales to the single customer previously discussed.
Proprietary products include engineered compounds and color concentrates and are made using
formulas and manufacturing processes which are proprietary to the Company. The 9% increase in
pounds sold of proprietary product was driven by the concerted effort of our marketing team to
replace the decrease in tolling pounds with engineered compounds, color concentrates, and new
product development sales. The majority of the price/mix impact reflects higher selling prices to
customers from the pass-through of raw material price increases.

This segment s operating earnings in 2005 were $15.3 million compared to $27.2 million in 2004
representing an $11.9 million decrease. This decrease was primarily caused by $9.9 million of
expenses from special items. Operating earnings excluding special items in 2005 were $2.3 million
less than 2004 primarily because of the decrease in underlying volume and increase in conversion
costs, particularly due to higher freight costs. In addition, our Donchery, France operation
incurred a $2.8 million operating loss
in 2005 compared to a $0.4 million operating loss in the prior year, representing a $2.4
million decrease to the comparison. The losses arose from the disruption associated with the
significant expansion of the operation for the new sheet business.

Engineered Products Group  

Net sales were $81.7 million and $68.6 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, representing a
19% sales increase in 2005. This increase was caused by:

The underlying volume increase for the period was primarily driven by an increase in sales of
wheels to the lawn and garden market to new customers. The negative impact of price/mix reflects
higher selling prices, the impact of which was more than offset by the change in product mix from
selling more wheels with a lower per pound selling price.

This group s operating loss for 2005 was $3.5 million compared to operating earnings of $5.8
million in 2004. This $9.3 million decrease in operating earnings was adversely impacted by $5.2
million of expenses from special items. Operating earnings excluding special items in 2005 were
$4.7 million less than 2004 reflecting higher than expected start-up costs associated with the
ramp-up of new production capacity and start-up delays for our wheels business. The 2005 operating
loss also includes $2.0 million of losses generated from a sold operation.

18 

Table of Contents   

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Cash Flow  

Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash flows from operating activities, borrowings
from third parties and equity offerings. Our principal uses of cash have been to support our
operating activities, invest in capital improvements, pay off outstanding indebtedness, finance
strategic business and outsourcing acquisitions and pay dividends on our common stock. The
following summarizes the major categories of our changes in cash and cash equivalents in 2006, 2005
and 2004:

Net cash provided by operating activities was $127.5 million in 2006 compared to $105.0
million in the prior year. Of this $22.5 million increase, $6.9 million was attributed to our
focused effort to reduce net working capital to improve cash flow and the remaining increase was
driven by an increase in cash earnings. We had an improvement in days sales outstanding of our
year-end accounts receivable balance from 51 days at the end of 2005 to 48 days at the end of 2006.
In addition, our year-end days payable outstanding improved from 33 days at the end of 2005 to 39
days at the end of 2006, primarily due to the renegotiation of payment terms with our significant
vendors.

Our primary investing activities are capital expenditures. Capital expenditures are primarily
incurred to enhance our facilities for safety and environmental improvements and to maintain and
improve productivity, and to modernize and expand facilities. Capital expenditures in 2006 were
$24.0 million compared to $39.3 million in 2005. The $15.3 million decrease in capital
expenditures was due to capacity expansions made in the prior period for new sheet and compounding
business at our Donchery, France facility, new wheels business in our Engineered Products group,
and the addition of certain lines in our U.S. sheet business. We expect capital expenditures to
approximate $39 million in 2007 which includes $6 million related to the new Custom Sheet and
Rollstock production facility in Greenville, Ohio, $3 million for expansion of our Mexico facility
and $7 million for our company-wide Oracle information system implementation.

Net cash used for financing activities totaled $105.2 million in 2006 and $110.3 million in
2005. The positive improvement in cash flow provided by operating activities as well as lower
capital expenditures allowed us to pay down $87.4 million of debt in 2006. Proceeds from the
issuance of a $50 million of private placement debt and $23.8
million of net borrowings from our credit facility along with cash provided by operating
activities were used to redeem our $150 million of subordinated debentures and fund a related $3.8
million early payment premium. Cash used for financing activities in 2006 also includes $15.9
million to pay dividends.

Overall, cash increased $0.8 million in 2006 due to the factors noted above. This increase
compares to a $36.7 million decrease in cash in 2005 which reflects the use of cash to pay down
debt subsequent to the expiration of an interest rate swap agreement.

Financing Arrangements  

In the third quarter of 2006, we amended our U.S. unsecured bank credit facility agreement
which increased our total availability from $200 million to $300 million and extended the term to
June 2, 2011. Interest on the bank credit facility is payable at a rate we may choose of either
the Prime rate or LIBOR plus a 0.625% to 1.0% borrowing margin, and requires a fee of 0.125% to
0.2% on the unused portion of the facility. We classify borrowings under the amended bank credit
facility as long-term because no paydowns are required within the next 12 months and we have the
ability to keep the balances outstanding over the next 12 months. The bank credit facility
requires the Company to meet certain affirmative and negative covenants which include minimum
consolidated net worth, minimum interest coverage and maximum total leverage requirements.

In the third quarter of 2006, we completed a $50 million private placement of 5.78% Senior
Notes which are payable on June 5, 2011. The notes do not require annual principal payments and
are pre-payable at our option after June 5, 2009 at par. Interest on the 2006 Notes is payable
semi-annually on December 5 and June 5 of each year. We used the proceeds from these notes and our
new unsecured bank credit facility to redeem our $150 million convertible subordinated debentures.
We incurred $3.8 million of early-payment premiums and $1.7 million of non-cash write-offs of
unamortized debt issuance costs as early debt extinguishment costs in the third quarter of 2006
related to the redemption of these debentures.

19 

Table of Contents   

As of October 28, 2006, the weighted average interest rate on all of our outstanding debt was
6.1% and we had $246.0 million of total availability under our credit facilities. At October 28,
2006, our credit facilities contained certain affirmative and negative covenants, including
restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, limitations on both the sale of assets
and merger transactions, and requirements to maintain certain financial, debt service and net worth
ratios. While we were in compliance with our covenants throughout 2006 and currently expect to be
in compliance with our covenants in the next twelve months, our failure to comply with the
covenants or other requirements of our financing arrangements could result in an event of default
and, among other things, acceleration of the payment of our indebtedness, which could adversely
impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

We anticipate that cash flows from operations, together with the financing and borrowings
under our bank credit facilities, will provide the resources necessary for reinvestment in our
existing business, strategic acquisitions and managing our capital structure on a short and
long-term basis.

Contractual Obligations 

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of October 28, 2006 and the
estimated payments due by period:

Amounts included in long-term debt include principal and interest payments. Interest on
debt with variable rates was calculated using the current rate of that particular debt instrument
at October 28, 2006. Purchase obligations primarily consist of inventory purchases made in the
normal course of business to meet operational requirements. Other obligations consist primarily of
a guarantee to enter into a financing agreement in return for government investment subsidies. The
obligations table does not include long term contingent liabilities and liabilities related to
deferred taxes because it is not certain when these liabilities will become due.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. As such, we are required to make estimates and judgments
that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, shareholders  equity, revenues and
expenses, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements. Accounting policies, estimates and judgments which we believe are the most critical to
aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following:

Revenue Recognition   - We recognize revenue as product is shipped and title passes to the
customer. We manufacture our products either to standard specifications or to custom
specifications agreed upon with the customer in advance, and we inspect our products prior to
shipment to ensure that these specifications are met. We monitor and track product returns, which
have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established. Despite our efforts
to improve our quality and service to customers, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to
experience the same or better return rates than we have in the past. Any significant increase in
returns could have a material negative impact on our operating results.

Accounts Receivable   - We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit
limits based upon payment history and the customer s creditworthiness, as determined by our review
of their current credit information. We monitor collections and payments from our customers and
maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon any specific customer collection issues
identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the
provisions established, actual credit loss rates may differ from our estimates.

Inventories   - We value inventories at the lower of (i) cost to purchase or manufacture the
inventory or (ii) the current estimated market value of the inventory. We also buy scrap and
recyclable material (including regrind material) to be used in future production. We record these
inventories initially at purchase price, and based on the inventory aging and other considerations
for realizable value, we write down the carrying value to market value where appropriate. We
review inventory on-hand and record provisions for obsolete inventory. A significant increase in
the demand for our raw materials could result in a short-term increase in the cost of inventory
purchases, while a significant decrease in demand could result in an increase in

20 

Table of Contents   

the amount of
excess inventory quantities on hand. In addition, most of our business is custom products, where
the loss of a specific customer could increase the amount of excess or obsolete inventory on hand.
Although we make efforts to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, any
significant unanticipated changes in demand could have a significant impact on the value of our
inventory and operating results.

Acquisition Accounting   - We have made several acquisitions in recent years. All of these
acquisitions have been accounted for in accordance with the purchase method, and accordingly, the
results of operation were included in our Consolidated Statement of Operations from the respective
date of acquisition. The purchase price has been allocated to the identifiable assets and
liabilities, and any excess of the cost over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired
is recorded as goodwill. The initial allocation of purchase price is based on preliminary
information, which is subject to adjustments upon obtaining complete valuation information. While
the delayed finalization of a purchase price has historically not had a material impact on the
consolidated results of operations, we cannot guarantee the same results in future acquisitions.

Goodwill   - Our formal annual impairment testing date for goodwill is the first day of the
Company s fourth quarter or prior to the next annual testing date if an event occurs or
circumstances change that would make it more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting
unit is below its carrying amount. The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process which
requires us to make judgmental assumptions regarding fair value. The first step consists of
estimating the fair value of each reporting unit using a number of judgmental factors including
projected future operating results and business plans, economic projections, anticipated future
cash flows, discount rates and comparable marketplace fair value data from within a comparable
industry grouping. We compare the estimated fair values of each reporting unit to the respective
carrying values which includes allocated goodwill. If the estimated fair value is less than the
carrying value, the second step is completed to compute the impairment amount by determining the
 implied fair value  of goodwill. This determination requires the allocation of the estimated fair
value of the reporting unit to the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. Any remaining
unallocated fair value represents the  implied fair value  of goodwill which is compared to the
corresponding carrying value to compute the goodwill impairment amount. We believe our estimates
of the underlying components of fair value are reasonable. However, should actual results not meet
our expectations or assumptions change in future years, our impairment assessment could result in a
lower fair value estimate which could result in an impairment charge that may materially affect the
carrying value of our assets and results from operations.

SFAS 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  ( SFAS 142 ) requires the completion of an
impairment test for goodwill as of an annual date and whenever events or circumstances occur that
indicate goodwill may be impaired. Our accounting policy was to complete the annual impairment
test on the last day of the Company s fiscal year. Effective in the second quarter of fiscal 2006,
we changed our accounting policy to complete the annual impairment test for goodwill on the first
day of the fourth quarter. This change provides additional time to complete the impairment testing
and evaluate the results. This change in accounting policy had no impact on our financial results
or financial position.

Long-Lived Assets   - We review the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment, other
intangible assets and other long-lived assets for potential impairment if an event occurs or
circumstances change that indicates the carrying amount may not be recoverable. In evaluating the
recoverability of a long-lived asset, such assets are grouped at the lowest level for which
identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets, and we compare
the carrying value of each asset group with the corresponding estimated undiscounted future
operating cash flows. In the event the carrying value of an asset group is not recoverable by
future undiscounted operating cash flows, impairment exists. In the event of impairment, an
impairment charge would be measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived
asset group exceeds its fair value.

Income Taxes   - Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary
differences between financial statement carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities,
applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are
expected to reverse. Deferred tax assets are recognized for credit carryforwards and then assessed
to determine the likelihood of realization. Valuation allowances are established to the extent we
believe it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized. Expectations of
future earnings, the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, the ability to carryback
losses and credits to offset taxable income in a prior year, and tax planning strategies are the
primary drivers underlying our evaluation of valuation allowances. Deferred tax amounts recorded
may materially differ from the amounts that are ultimately payable and expensed if our estimates of
future earnings and outcomes of treasury and tax planning strategies are ultimately inaccurate.

Deferred income taxes are not provided for undistributed earnings on foreign consolidated
subsidiaries, to the extent that such earnings are reinvested for an indefinite period of time. If
those undistributed foreign earnings were not considered indefinitely reinvested, we would be
required to recognize approximately $4.5 million to $6.0 million of additional income tax expense.

21 

Table of Contents   

We accrue for tax contingencies when it is probable that a liability to a taxing authority has
been incurred and the amount of the contingency can be reasonably estimated. The tax contingency
is adjusted for changes in circumstances and additional uncertainties, such as significant
amendments to existing tax law. To the extent we prevail in matters for which accruals have been
established, or are required to pay amounts in excess of recorded reserves, our effective tax rate
in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted.

Contingencies   - We are involved in litigation in the ordinary course of business, including
environmental matters. Our policy is to record expense for contingencies when it is both probable
that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Estimating probable
losses requires assessment of multiple outcomes that often depends on management s judgments
regarding, but not limited to, potential actions by third parties such as regulators. The final
resolution of these contingencies could result in expenses different from current accruals and
therefore have a material impact on our consolidated financial results in a future reporting
period.

For additional information regarding our significant accounting policies, as well as the
impact of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1 to our 2006 Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Item 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

We are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of our borrowing activities.
Our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations in interest rates on our floating rate
debt facilities. At October 28, 2006, we had $73.4 million of debt subject to variable short-term
interest rates and $215.8 million of fixed rate debt outstanding. Based upon the October 28, 2006
balance of the floating rate debt, a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would cause an
immaterial change in future net earnings, fair value and cash flows. We are not currently engaged
in any interest rate derivative instruments to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations.

The fair market value of our fixed rate debt is subject to changes in interest rates; the
October 28, 2006 fair values of such instruments are disclosed in the notes to our consolidated
financial statements. We do not anticipate material changes to the fair value of our debt in the
next 12 months.

See Item 1A for additional disclosures about market risk.

22 

Table of Contents   

Item 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

Management s Responsibility for Financial Statements 

The Company s management is responsible for the integrity and accuracy of the financial
statements. Management believes that the financial statements for the three years ended October
28, 2006, have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. In preparing the financial statements, management makes informed judgments and
estimates when necessary to reflect the expected effects of events and transactions that have not
been completed. The Company s disclosure controls and procedures ensure that material information
required to be disclosed is recorded, processed, summarized and communicated with management and
reported within the required time periods.

In meeting its responsibility for the reliability of the financial statements, management
relies on a system of internal control. This system is designed to provide reasonable assurance
that assets are safeguarded and transactions are executed in accordance with management s
authorization and recorded properly to allow the preparation of financial statements in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The design of this system
recognizes that errors or irregularities may occur and that estimates and judgments are required to
assess the relative cost and expected benefits of the controls. Management believes the Company s
accounting controls provide reasonable assurance that errors or irregularities that could be
material to the financial statements are prevented or would be detected in a timely period.

The Company s board of directors is responsible for ensuring the independence and
qualifications of audit committee members under applicable New York Stock Exchange and Securities
and Exchange Commission standards. The audit committee consists of four independent directors and
oversees the Company s financial reporting and internal controls system. The audit committee meets
with management, the independent registered public accountant and internal auditors periodically to
review auditing, financial reporting and internal control matters. The audit committee held 13
meetings during 2006.

The Company s independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst   Young LLP, is engaged to
express an opinion on the Company s consolidated financial statements and on the Company s internal
control over financial reporting. Their opinions are based on procedures which they believe to be
sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements contain no material errors
and that the Company s internal controls are effective.

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

The Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting. With the participation of the chief executive officer
and chief financial officer, management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of its
internal control over financial reporting
 based on the framework set forth in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ). Based on this
evaluation, management concluded that the Company s internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of October 28, 2006.

The Company s independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst   Young LLP, has issued an
audit report on management s assessment of internal control over financial reporting.

23 

Table of Contents   

Report of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
The Shareholders and the Board of Directors 
Spartech Corporation and Subsidiaries

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Spartech Corporation and
Subsidiaries (the Company) as of October 28, 2006, and October 29, 2005, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, shareholders  equity, and cash flows of the Company for each
of the three years in the period ended October 28, 2006. Our audits also included the financial
statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedules
are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements and schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and the
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Spartech Corporation and Subsidiaries at October
28, 2006, and October 29, 2005, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 28, 2006, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statements
schedules, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present
fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of Spartech Corporation and Subsidiaries  internal control
over financial reporting as of October 28, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control
  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission and our report dated December 15, 2006, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

St. Louis, Missouri 
December 15, 2006

24 

Table of Contents   

Report of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
The Shareholders and the Board of Directors 
Spartech Corporation and Subsidiaries

We have audited management s assessment, included in the accompanying Management s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that Spartech Corporation and Subsidiaries (the Company)
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 28, 2006, based on
criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). The Company s management
is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for their
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on management s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management s assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of October 28, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on
the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 28, 2006, based on the COSO
criteria . 

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of October 28, 2006, and
October 29, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders  equity and
cash flows of the Company for each of the three years in the period ended October 28, 2006, and our
report dated December 15, 2006, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

St. Louis, Missouri 
December 15, 2006

25 

Table of Contents   

SPARTECH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

(Dollars in thousands) 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 

26 

Table of Contents   

SPARTECH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 

27 

Table of Contents   

SPARTECH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 

(Dollars in thousands) 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 

28 

Table of Contents   

SPARTECH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

(Dollars in thousands) 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 

29 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

1) Significant Accounting Policies 

Basis of Presentation   - The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
reported amounts and related disclosures. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. The
Company s fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to October 31.

Principles of Consolidation   - The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of Spartech Corporation and its controlled affiliates. All intercompany transactions and
balances have been eliminated. Investments in entities of 20% to 50% of the outstanding capital
stock of such entities are accounted for by the equity method.

Segments     Spartech is organized into two reportable segments and one group of operating
segments based on the products manufactured. The two reportable segments are Custom Sheet and
Rollstock and Color and Specialty Compounds with the remaining businesses grouped together in
Engineered Products. The Color and Specialty Compounds segment consists of three operating
segments that are aggregated into a reportable segment based on the nature of the products
manufactured. The Engineered Products group consists of four operating segments that are combined
because each operating segment does not meet the materiality threshold for separate disclosure.

Revenue Recognition   - The Company manufactures products for specific customer orders and for
standard stock inventory. Revenues are recognized and billings are rendered as the product is
shipped to the customer in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles as well as
the Securities and Exchange Commission s Staff Accounting Bulletin 104. Shipping and handling
costs associated with the shipment of goods are recorded as costs of sales in the consolidated
statement of operations.

Cash Equivalents   - Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts   - The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of customers
that include reviewing creditworthiness from third-party reporting agencies, monitoring payment
histories, and adjusting credit limits as necessary. The Company continually monitors collections
and payments from customers and maintains a provision for estimated credit losses based on
specifically identified customer collection issues.

Inventories   - Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. Inventory values are
primarily based on either actual or standard costs which approximate average cost. Standard costs
are revised at least once annually, the effect of which is allocated between inventories and cost
of sales. Finished goods include the costs of material, labor, and overhead.

Property, Plant, and Equipment   - Property, plant, and equipment are carried at cost less
accumulated depreciation. Major additions and improvements are capitalized. Maintenance and
repairs are expensed as incurred. Depreciation expense is recorded on a straight-line basis over
the estimated useful lives of the related assets as shown below and totaled $35,980, $34,441, and
$30,864 in years 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.

Goodwill     Assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations are accounted for using
the purchase method and recorded at their respective fair values. Goodwill is assigned to the
reporting unit which benefits from the acquired business. The Company s annual goodwill impairment
testing date is the first day of the Company s fourth quarter or prior to the next annual testing
date if an event occurs or circumstances change that would make it more likely than not that the
fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. The goodwill impairment test is a
two-step process which requires us to make judgmental assumptions regarding fair value. The first
step consists of estimating the fair value of each reporting unit using a number of judgmental
factors including projected future operating results and business plans, economic projections,
anticipated future cash flows, discount rates and comparable marketplace fair value data from
within a comparable industry grouping. The estimated fair values of each reporting unit are
compared to the respective carrying values which includes allocated goodwill. If the estimated
fair value is less than the carrying value, the second step is completed to compute the impairment
amount by determining the  implied fair value  of goodwill. This determination requires the
allocation of the estimated fair value of the

30 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

reporting unit to the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. Any remaining unallocated
fair value represents the  implied fair value  of goodwill which is compared to the corresponding
carrying value to compute the goodwill impairment amount. Management believes the estimates of the
underlying components of fair value are reasonable.

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
( SFAS 142 ) requires the completion of an impairment test for goodwill as of an annual date and
whenever events or circumstances occur that indicate goodwill may be impaired. The Company s
accounting policy was to complete the annual impairment test on the last day of the Company s
fiscal year. Effective in the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company changed its accounting
policy to complete the annual impairment test for goodwill to the first day of the Company s fourth
quarter. This change provides additional time to complete the impairment testing and evaluate the
results. This change in accounting policy had no impact on the Company s financial results or
financial position.

Other Intangible Assets     Costs allocated to customer contracts, product formulations and
other intangible assets are based on their fair value at the date of acquisition. The cost of
other intangible assets is amortized on a straight-lined basis over its estimated useful life
ranging from 3 to 15 years unless such life is deemed indefinite. Identified intangible assets
that have indefinite useful lives will be amortized when their useful life is determined to no
longer be indefinite.

Long-lived Assets     The Company reviews the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment,
other intangible assets and other long-lived assets for potential impairment if an event occurs or
circumstances change that indicates the carrying amount may not be recoverable. In evaluating the
recoverability of a long-lived asset, such assets are grouped at the lowest level for which
identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets, and management
compares the carrying value of each asset group with the corresponding estimated undiscounted
future operating cash flows. In the event the carrying value of an asset group is not recoverable
by future undiscounted operating cash flows, impairment exists. In the event of impairment, an
impairment charge would be measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived
asset group exceeds its fair value.

Financial Instruments   - The Company selectively uses derivative financial instruments to
manage its interest costs as well as its balance of floating rate and fixed rate financings. No
credit loss is anticipated from such instruments because the counterparties to these agreements are
major financial institutions with high credit ratings. The Company does not enter into derivatives
for trading purposes. The net amount paid or received under an interest rate swap agreement was
recorded as interest expense.

Derivative instruments (including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts)
are recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at fair value, and
changes in the derivative s fair value are recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge
accounting criteria are met. Special accounting for qualifying derivatives designated as fair
value hedges allows a derivative s gains and losses to be offset in the income statement by the
related change in the fair value of the hedged item. Special accounting for qualifying derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges allows the effective portion of a derivative s gains and losses to
be reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss and reclassified into
earnings in the period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. No such contracts
were outstanding as of October 28, 2006 or October 29, 2005.

The Company uses the following methods and assumptions in estimating the fair value of
financial instruments:

Cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities   the carrying
value of these instruments approximates fair value due to their short-term nature; 

Derivative financial instruments   based upon quoted market prices or market prices for
instruments with similar terms and maturities; and 

Long-term debt (including bank credit facilities and convertible subordinated
debentures)   based on quoted, current market prices for the same or similar issues. As of
October 28, 2006, the fair value of other long-term debt was $288,221 compared to the
carrying amount of $289,223. 

Stock-Based Compensation   - On October 30, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS 123 (revised 2004),
 Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123(R) ). The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 123(R) using the
modified prospective transition method. Under this method, the Company s consolidated financial
statements of 2006 reflect the impact of SFAS 123(R), while the consolidated financial statements
for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS 123(R).
Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) the Company had adopted the disclosure-only provisions of
SFAS 123

31 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

and accounted for stock-based compensation under the intrinsic value method, and no expense
related to stock options was recognized.

Foreign Currency Translation   - Assets and liabilities of the Company s non-U.S. operations are
translated from their local functional currency to U.S. dollars using exchange rates in effect at
the balance sheet date. Results of operations are translated using average rates during the
period. Adjustments resulting from the translation process are included in accumulated other
comprehensive income. Transactional gains and losses arising from receivable and payable balances,
including intercompany balances, in the normal course of business that are denominated in a
currency other than the functional currency of the operation are recorded in income when they
occur. The Company may periodically enter into foreign currency contracts to manage exposures to
market risks from prospective changes in exchange rates. No such contracts were outstanding as of
October 28, 2006 or October 29, 2005.

Income Taxes   - Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts
of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets are also recognized
for credit carryforwards and then assessed (including the anticipation of future income) to
determine the likelihood of realization. A valuation allowance is established to the extent
management believes that it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be realized.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the rates expected to apply to taxable
income in the years in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse and the credits are
expected to be used. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is
recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company accrues for tax
contingencies when it is probable that a liability to a taxing authority has been incurred and the
amount of the contingency can be reasonably estimated.

Comprehensive Income   - Comprehensive income is the Company s change in equity during the
period related to transactions, events, and circumstances from non-owner sources. At October 28,
2006 and October 29, 2005, accumulated other comprehensive income consisted of cumulative foreign
currency translation adjustments. In 2005, a cumulative currency translation gain of $1,909 was recognized during the sale of foreign business.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards  

In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an
Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48 ), which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty
in tax positions. FIN 48 requires financial statement recognition of the impact of a tax position,
if that position is more likely than not to be sustained on examination, based on the technical
merits of the position. The provisions of FIN 48 will be effective for the Company beginning in
fiscal 2008 with the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle recorded as an
adjustment to opening retained earnings. Management is currently evaluating the impact of FIN 48
on the Company s consolidated financial statements.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157,  Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ). SFAS 157
defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted
accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This statement is
effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2009. Management is currently evaluating the impact
of SFAS 157 on the Company s consolidated financial statements.

2) Acquisitions 

On October 1, 2004, the Company completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets
of three divisions of VPI, based in Sheboygan, Wisconsin. The operations purchased included (1)
The Sheet Products Division, a custom extruded sheet manufacturer serving the graphic arts, medical
packaging, and specialty retail markets; (2) The Contract Manufacturing Division, a provider of
non-carpet flooring and sound barrier products to the transportation industry; and (3) The Film and
Converting Division which calenders, prints, and laminates products for distribution to various
markets including the medical, recreation, and leisure markets. The Sheet Products Division was
added to the Company s Custom Sheet and Rollstock segment, and the Contract Manufacturing and Film
and Converting Divisions were added to the Color and Specialty Compounds segment. Sales within the
three divisions acquired totaled approximately $110,000 for the 12 months prior to acquisition.
The cash price for this acquisition of $87,758 was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed of $97,694 and $9,936, respectively. The assets acquired include $23,009 of working
capital assets, $39,142 of property, plant, and equipment, $17,780 of identified intangibles and
$17,763 of goodwill, all of which is deductible for tax purposes. The identified intangibles and
respective weighted average amortization periods are $15,310 of customer contracts and
relationships (ten years), $1,430 of technology (ten years) and $1,040 of non-compete agreements
(three years).

32 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

3) Stock-Based Compensation 

On October 30, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective transition
method. Under this method, the Company s consolidated financial statements of 2006 reflect the
impact of SFAS 123(R), while the consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been
restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS 123(R). SFAS 123(R) amends SFAS No.
95,  Statement of Cash Flows , to require that excess tax benefits be reported as a financing cash
inflow rather than as a reduction of taxes paid, which is included within operating cash flows.
Adoption of SFAS 123(R) did not have a material impact on the Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows.

The Company s long-term share-based compensation plans allow for grants of stock options,
restricted stock and restricted stock units. During 2006, expense associated with stock options
was $2,507 and expense associated with restricted stock units was $283. The following table
details the effect of stock-based compensation from the issuance of stock options and restricted
stock units on 2006 operating earnings, net income and earnings per share:

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) the Company had adopted the disclosure-only provisions of
SFAS 123 and accounted for stock-based compensation under the intrinsic value method, and no
expense related to stock options was recognized. Had the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS
123 been adopted by the Company, the effect on net income and earnings per common share in 2005 and
2004 would have been as follows:

As discussed in Note 8, during 2005, the Company entered into a retirement agreement with its
former Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ). Among other items, the agreement included an amendment to
the terms of the former CEO s vested stock options to treat his resignation as a retirement before
having reached the minimum retirement age of 60 specified in his option agreements which resulted
in a new measurement of the options for accounting purposes and a non-cash, pre-tax expense of
$831. In addition, the agreement required the cancellation of all the former CEO s unvested stock
options.

The Company s plan requires the exercise price of stock options to be the fair market value of
the Company s stock, at a minimum, at the date of grant. Under the plan, up to 3 million shares of
common stock may be granted and options are typically granted with lives of 10 years with graded
vesting over four years. Restricted stock units, which have been awarded only to non-employee
directors of the Company, provide the grantee the right to receive one share of common stock per
restricted unit at the end of the restricted period and to receive dividend equivalents during the
restricted period in the form of additional restricted stock units. The restricted period ends one
year after the director leaves the Board of Directors. During 2006, 2005 and 2004 the Company
granted 13,304, 8,353 and 7,663 restricted stock units, respectively to non-employee

33 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

directors and
recognized $283, $217 and $180 of compensation expense, respectively. The compensation expense of
the restricted stock units is based on the fair value of the Company s stock at the date of grant.
As of October 28, 2006, there were 29,319 restricted stock units outstanding.

The estimated fair value of stock option grants is computed using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model. Expected volatility is based on historical periods generally commensurate
with the expected life of options and expected life is based on historical experience and expected
exercise patterns in the future. Stock option expense is recognized in the consolidated statements
of operations ratably over the vesting period based on the number of options that are expected to
ultimately vest. The following table presents the assumptions used in valuing options granted
during 2006, 2005 and 2004:

Changes in stock options for 2006, 2005, and 2004 are as follows:

Information with respect to options outstanding at October 28, 2006 follows (shares in
thousands):

The total intrinsic value, cash received and actual tax benefit realized for stock options
exercised in 2006, 2005 and 2004 is as follows:

The intrinsic value for stock options outstanding at October 28, 2006 was $12,810 with a
remaining average term of 4.7 years while the intrinsic value for stock options exercisable was
$8,697 with a remaining average term of 4.6 years. As of October 28, 2006, there was $4,337 of
unrecognized compensation cost related to approximately 807 thousand nonvested stock

34 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

options that
we expect to ultimately vest which have a $22.28 weighted average exercise price. The unrecognized
compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.9 years.

4) Inventories 

Inventories at October 28, 2006 and October 29, 2005 are comprised of the following components:

5) Property, Plant, and Equipment 

Property, plant, and equipment consisted of the following at October 28, 2006 and October 29,
2005:

6) Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets 

Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended October 28, 2006 and October
29, 2005 are as follows:

The goodwill impairment in 2006 resulted from the reorganization of a reporting unit in the
Engineered Products group. A single reporting unit was split into two reporting units and goodwill
was allocated to the new reporting units using the relative fair value of those reporting units.
The fair value of the new Spartech Profiles reporting unit based on future operating projections
did not support the allocated fair value of goodwill.

The goodwill impairments in 2005 resulted from the underperformance of one profiles operation
in the Engineered Products group and the loss of a major customer at an operation in the Color and
Specialty Compounds segment, both of which resulted in future operating projections that did not
support the existing fair value of goodwill. Reclassifications in 2005 represent acquisition
opening balance adjustments between goodwill and other intangible assets and deferred taxes, and
transfer of the Spartech PEP reporting unit from the Custom Sheet and Rollstock reporting segment
to the Color and Specialty Compound reporting segment. In addition, during 2005, the Company sold
two operations that constituted businesses and disposed of the relative goodwill attributable to
those businesses.

35 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

As of October 28, 2006 and October 29, 2005, the Company had amortizable intangible assets as
follows:

Amortization expense for intangible assets totaled $4,718, $4,939 and $2,840 in 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. Amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets over the next five
years is estimated to be:

The Company has an $8,900 trademark included in other intangible assets which has an
indefinite life and, therefore is not subject to amortization.

7) Restructuring 

2006 Restructuring Plan 

In 2006, the Company announced the consolidation of three existing Custom Sheet and Rollstock
production facilities into one newly constructed facility. The following table summarizes the
restructuring and exit costs related to the 2006 restructuring plan:

Accelerated depreciation represents the impact from the reduced life on property, plant and
equipment related to a decision to sell one of the existing production facilities after the
consolidation is complete. Facility restructuring charges represent employee severance costs. The
Company expects to incur additional charges of approximately $450 of cash restructuring costs,
primarily employee severance and equipment moving expenses, and $500 of non-cash restructuring
expenses representing accelerated depreciation on the facility and equipment that will be sold
after completion of the consolidation. These charges are expected to occur in 2007. The Company s
restructuring liability related to the 2006 restructuring plan was $75 at October 28, 2006 which
reflects severance charges incurred during 2006 with no cash payments made during the year. The
2006 Restructuring Plan is expected to be finalized by the end of 2007.

36 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

2005 Restructuring Plan 

In 2005, the Company initiated a plan involving the closing or sale of certain plant
facilities and other cost reduction efforts that were segregated into three categories: (i) the
elimination of non-core operations and assets, (ii) the consolidation of capacity for similar
operations, and (iii) the transfer of synergistic or new business to other existing operations. In
conjunction with this restructuring plan, the Company made the following decisions:

reduce the number of operating facilities across all segments by seven 

sell a calendered film line in the Color and Specialty Compounds segment 

consolidate three Color and Specialty Compounds production facilities into the Company's Donora facility 

terminate the lease on its airplane 

The following table summarizes the restructuring and exit costs related to the 2005
restructuring plan incurred during 2006 and 2005:

Fixed asset impairment, net represents charges incurred to adjust assets to fair market value,
less costs to sell and net of any gain or loss on the ultimate sale of the assets. The goodwill
write-offs represent charges incurred to dispose of goodwill related to two businesses which were
sold. Facility restructuring charges represent exit costs including severance, equipment moves,
relocation, and other related costs. The airplane lease buy-out represents termination fees and
selling expenses.

Of the $10,088 total restructuring and exit costs recognized in 2005, $2,890 represents cash
expended for facility restructuring, the airplane lease buy-out and severance associated with sold
assets. The $7,198 remaining difference represents losses on the sales of assets. The asset sales
provided $11,183 of cash proceeds, $9,116 of which was received as of the end of 2005 with the
remainder received in the second quarter of 2006.

The $1,656 of restructuring and exit costs incurred in 2006 primarily represents equipment
moving costs and employee severance in the Color and Specialty Compounds segment associated with
the Donora consolidation. In 2006, the Company also finalized the sale of a Custom Sheet and
Rollstock facility that was previously classified as held for sale. The sale resulted in $361 of
cash proceeds and a $71 gain. As of the end of 2006, within the Color and Specialty Compounds
segment, the Company had $347 of assets held for sale representing a calendered film line and
building which are classified in other current assets and are expected to be sold during 2007. The
2005 restructuring plan activities are substantially complete.

37 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

The change in the liability for the 2005 restructuring plan follows:

The Company continues to evaluate other operations for opportunities which provide
efficiencies or fixed cost reductions. These evaluations may lead to further plant restructuring
decisions, related exit costs, and property, plant and equipment write-downs.

8) Former CEO Retirement 

The Company entered into a Retirement Agreement and Release ( Retirement Agreement ),
effective on May 6, 2005, with its former Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, Bradley
B. Buechler. This Retirement Agreement replaced Mr. Buechler s Amended and Restated Employment
Agreement dated November 2, 2002.

The Retirement Agreement included various terms and conditions pertaining to Mr. Buechler s
retirement. The payments and benefits paid to Mr. Buechler under this Retirement Agreement
included the following major provisions:

A cash settlement paid June 3, 2005, based upon a multiple of Mr. Buechler s former
annual salary plus his previous deferred compensation arrangement, totaling $2,711. 

A bonus to be paid based on the Company s 2005 results pro-rated for Mr. Buechler s
employment through the effective date of the Retirement Agreement. 

An amendment to the terms of Mr. Buechler s vested stock options to permit him to
retire before having reached the minimum retirement age of 60 specified in his option
agreements, resulting in a new measurement of the options for accounting purposes and a
non-cash expense of $831. 

The provisions of the Retirement Agreement resulted in a $3,645 charge to operating earnings
in 2005.

38 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

9) Fixed Asset Charge 

As part of the Company s Sarbanes-Oxley compliance process, management initiated a complete
physical count of the Company s property, plant and equipment in the first quarter of 2005. The
counts were reconciled to balances recorded in the Company s books and records, and equipment
having a book value of $8,794 at the end of April 2005 that was previously disposed was identified
and written off.

The previously unrecorded disposals were primarily related to transactions for plant
shutdowns, transfers of equipment between plants and equipment recorded in error upon acquisition
of businesses. Although the previously unrecorded disposals and acquisition accounting errors were
identified in 2005, the charge to write off these assets has been recorded at the net book value as
of the date of disposition or acquisition in the respective prior periods. The net book value at
the dates of disposition or acquisition totaled $14,436 which is greater than the $8,794 previous
charge due to the recapture of depreciation expense between the dates of disposition or business
acquisition and April 2005. Of the $14,436 amount, $11,345 represented the net book value of
previously unrecorded disposals or acquisition accounting errors for which there was sufficient
evidence to conclude when the equipment was disposed or recorded upon acquisition in error. Of
this $11,345 population, $4,587 was recorded in the Company s 2001 through 2004 results as a fixed
asset charge relating to equipment disposals occurring in this period, $5,605 was recorded as an
adjustment to 2001 beginning retained earnings relating to equipment disposals occurring prior to
2001, and $1,153 was recorded as an increase to goodwill relating to acquisition purchase price
allocation errors occurring prior to 2001. A remaining population of previously unrecorded
disposals was recorded on the last day of 2004 because the Company does not have sufficient
evidence to determine a disposal date with any certainty but does have evidence that these assets
were disposed prior to 2005. The net book value of this population was $3,091 as of the last day
of 2004 and was recorded as a fixed asset charge on that date.

During the count process, the Company also identified equipment that existed and that the
Company elected to liquidate. The decision to liquidate these assets resulted in a $1,870 fixed
asset impairment charge in 2005. This impairment charge, combined with the charge related to the
previously unrecorded disposals, is presented as non-cash fixed asset charges of $1,870 and $3,522
in 2005 and 2004, respectively. There were no fixed asset charges in 2006. The following presents
the fixed asset charge by reporting segment for 2005 and 2004:

10) Convertible Subordinated Debentures and Other Long-Term Debt 

Convertible Subordinated Debentures 

On June 7, 2006, the Company redeemed its $50,000, 6.5% convertible subordinated debentures,
and on July 12, 2006 the Company redeemed its $100,000, 7.0% convertible subordinated debentures.
The Company recorded $3,780 of early-payment premiums and $1,725 of non-cash write-offs of
unamortized debt issuance costs from the extinguishment of its debentures in the third quarter of
2006. Proceeds from a new issuance of senior notes as well as funds from the Company s unsecured
bank credit facility were used to extinguish the convertible subordinated debentures.

39 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Other Long-Term Debt 

Other long-term debt is comprised of the following at October 28, 2006 and October 29, 2005:

On June 5, 2006, the Company completed a $50,000 private placement of 5.78% Senior Unsecured
Notes which are payable on June 5, 2011. The notes do not require annual principal payments, but
can be prepaid at the Company s option after June 5, 2009 at par. Interest on the 2006 Notes is
payable semi-annually on December 5 and June 5 of each year.

On September 15, 2004, the Company completed a $150,000 private placement of 5.54% Senior
Unsecured Notes over a twelve-year term. The 2004 Notes require equal annual principal payments of
$30,000 that commence on September 15, 2012. Interest on the 2004 Notes is payable semiannually on
March 15 and September 15 of each year.

On August 22, 1997, the Company completed a private placement of 7.0% Senior Unsecured Notes
consisting of $45,000 designated as Series A and $15,000 designated as Series B. The Series A 1997
Notes require equal annual principal payments of approximately $6,429 that commenced on August 22,
2001 and the required $15,000 principal payment due on the Series B 1997 Notes was paid on August
22, 2004. Interest on the 1997 Notes is payable semiannually on February 22 and August 22 of each
year.

On September 27, 1996, the Company completed a $30,000 private placement of 7.62% Guaranteed
Unsecured Notes over a ten-year term. The 1996 Notes required equal annual principal payments of
approximately $4,286 with the final payment made on December 16, 2005. Interest on the 1996 Notes
was payable semiannually on March 27 and September 27 of each year.

On June 2, 2006 the Company amended its existing U.S. unsecured bank credit facility agreement
which increased the total availability from $200,000 to $300,000 and extended the term to June 2,
2011. Interest on the amended bank credit facility is payable at a rate chosen by the Company of
either Prime or the Eurodollar rate plus a 0.625% to 1.0% borrowing margin and requires a fee of
0.125% to 0.2% on the unused portion of the facility. The amended bank credit facility requires
the Company to maintain certain affirmative and negative covenants which include minimum
consolidated net worth, minimum interest coverage and maximum total leverage requirements. On
April 27, 2004, the Company s Canadian subsidiary entered into a $10,000 (Canadian Dollar)
revolving credit facility in Canada that expires on March 3, 2009.

The total capacity under the Company s bank credit facilities was $308,938 of which $246,018
was available at October 28, 2006. Borrowings under these facilities are classified as long-term,
because no paydowns of the aggregate facilities are required within the next year and we have the
ability and intent to keep the balances outstanding over the next 12 months. At October 28, 2006,
the Company had fixed LIBOR loans outstanding under the bank credit facilities of $48,000 at 6.07%
in the U.S. for a one-month period. At October 29, 2005, the Company had LIBOR loans of $11,600 at
4.815% in the U.S. and additional borrowings of $12,600 at the prime rate of 6.75%. In addition to
the outstanding loans, the bank credit facility was also partially utilized by several standby
letters of credit amounting to $14,920 at year-end.

On February 16, 2005, the Company entered into a 20 million Euro bank term loan that matures
on February 16, 2010. Interest on the term loan is payable monthly at a floating rate chosen by
the Company equal to either the one-month, three-month, or six-month EURIBO rate plus a 1%
borrowing margin. At October 28, 2006, the 20 million Euro term loan was outstanding at a rate of
4.52%.

40 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

The Company s other debt consists primarily of industrial revenue bonds utilized to finance
capital expenditures. These financings mature between 2007 and 2016 and have interest rates
ranging from 2.0% to 3.75%. Scheduled maturities of long-term debt for the next five years and
thereafter are:

The long-term debt contains certain covenants which, among other matters, require the Company
to restrict the incurrence of additional indebtedness, satisfy certain ratios and net worth levels,
and limit both the sale of assets and merger transactions.

11) Shareholders  Equity 

The authorized capital stock of the Company consists of 55 million shares of $.75 par value
common stock and 4 million shares of $1 par value preferred stock. On February 3, 2004, the
Company completed a common stock offering for 2.7 million newly issued shares. The stock was sold
to the public at $24.00 per share. The net proceeds received by the Company for the sales of the
shares totaled $60,922 with $40,922 used to pay down debt and the remaining funds used to fund
capital expenditures and strategic expansions. After the offering, the Company s common issued
shares increased by 8.8% to 33 million.

At October 28, 2006, 1.0 million shares of common stock were held in treasury shares,
primarily for issuance under the Company s stock-based compensation plans. During 2006, 42
thousand treasury shares were acquired and 178 thousand shares were issued.

The Company has a Shareholder Rights Plan in which rights trade with, and are inseparable
from, each share of common stock. Prior to exercise, a Right does not give its holder any
dividend, voting, or liquidation rights. Under certain circumstances, a Right may be exercised to
purchase one one-thousandth of a share of Series Z Preferred Stock for $70 per share. The Rights
become exercisable, subject to certain exceptions, if a new person or group acquires beneficial
ownership of 15% or more, to purchase shares of the Company s common stock with a market value of
$140.00, for $70.00 per Right. The Rights will expire on April 2, 2011 and may be redeemed by the
Company for $.01 per Right at any time before a new person or group becomes a beneficial owner of
15% or more of the Company s outstanding common stock.

41 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

12) Income Taxes 

Earnings before income taxes consist of the following:

The provision for income taxes for 2006, 2005, and 2004 is comprised of the following:

The income tax provision on earnings of the Company differs from the amounts computed by
applying the U.S. Federal tax rate of 35% as follows:

The increase in tax expense from the impairment of goodwill represents the portion of goodwill
impairments of current businesses plus goodwill written off for disposed businesses that were not
deductible for tax purposes.

42 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

At October 28, 2006 and October 29, 2005 the Company s principal components of deferred tax
assets and liabilities consisted of the following:

At October 28, 2006 and October 29, 2005, the net current deferred tax asset was $7,454 and
$5,314, respectively and the net noncurrent deferred tax liability was $97,681 and $92,044,
respectively.

As of October 28, 2006 no deferred income taxes or foreign withholding taxes have been
provided on the $28,828 in accumulated earnings of the Company s foreign subsidiaries that are not
subject to United States income tax. The Company s intention is to reinvest these earnings
indefinitely. If the Company changed its intentions or if such earnings were remitted to the
United States, as of October 28, 2006, the Company would be required to recognize approximately
$4,500 to $6,000 of additional income tax expense. In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act
of 2004 was signed into law. The new law creates an incentive for U.S. multinationals to
repatriate accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85% dividend received deduction for
certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. The Company reviewed the implications of
the new law on repatriation of earnings and determined that no repatriation would be made in 2005.

As of October 28, 2006, the Company had available approximately $7,723 in net operating loss
carryforwards which related to the France and Mexico operations. The Company assessed the
likelihood as to whether or not these net operating loss carryforwards would be utilized prior to
their expiration based on the amount of positive evidence available. The Company concluded that it
is more likely than not that the $2,634 net operating loss carryforward in Mexico will be utilized
prior to its expiration in 2012 to 2015 based on the amount of expected future taxable income. The
Company evaluated its France net operating loss carryforward of $5,089 and determined that a
valuation allowance of $4,699 was required for the amount of net operating losses that cannot be
carried back or utilized through tax planning strategies. This asset would be realized upon
consistent future earnings that are sustained over a period of time. Despite the fact that the
France net operating loss carryforward has an unlimited life, and management believes it will
ultimately be realized, the positive evidence required to overcome recent operating losses was not
sufficient to support recognition as of the end of 2006.

43 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

13) Earnings Per Share 

Basic earnings per share excludes any dilution and is computed by dividing net income
available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for
the period. Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if
securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock
or resulted in the issuance of common stock that then shared in the earnings of the entity.

The reconciliation of the net earnings and weighted average number of common shares used in
the computations of basic and diluted earnings per share 2006, 2005, and 2004 was as follows
(shares in thousands):

The effect of stock options represents the shares resulting from the assumed exercise of
outstanding stock options calculated using the treasury stock method. The effect of convertible
subordinated debentures represents the shares resulting from the assumed conversion using the  if
converted  method and the add-back of the interest expense, after tax, for the assumed conversion
at the beginning of each year. In 2006, these debentures were antidilutive, and the calculation of
diluted earnings per share excluded 3,058,031 potentially dilutive shares and the benefits of
interest expense, deferred financing cost write-offs and an early payment premium totaling $7,667,
net of tax. In 2005, these debentures were antidilutive, and the calculation of diluted earnings
per share excluded 4,577,838 potentially dilutive shares and the benefit of an interest expense
add-back of approximately $6,351, net of tax. In 2004, a portion of these debentures were
antidilutive and the diluted earnings per share calculation excluded 2,941,176 potentially dilutive
shares and the benefit of an interest expense add back of $4,368 net of tax.

14) Employee Benefits 

The Company sponsors or contributes to various defined contribution retirement benefit and
savings plans covering substantially all employees. The total cost of such plans 2006, 2005, and
2004 was $2,827, $2,823, and $2,342, respectively.

15) Cash Flow and Other Information 

Supplemental information on cash flows 2006, 2005, and 2004 was as follows:

44 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

16) Commitments and Contingencies 

The Company conducts certain of its operations in facilities under operating leases. Rental
expense in 2006, 2005, and 2004, was $10,699, $12,207, and $10,530, respectively. Future minimum
lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases, by year, are as follows:

In September 2003, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection issued a directive
and the United States Environmental Protection Agency ( USEPA ) initiated an investigation related
to over 70 companies, including a Spartech subsidiary, regarding the Lower Passaic River. The
subsidiary subsequently agreed to participate in a group of over 40 companies in funding $10
million of an estimated $20 million environmental study by the USEPA to determine the extent and
source of contamination at this site, and as of the end of 2005, it had paid its total commitment
of $250 towards this study. In 2006, the group s technical consultant advised the group of its
belief that completion of the environmental study would significantly exceed the USEPA s original
cost estimate. In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company recorded a $627 charge in selling,
general and administrative expense primarily for the subsidiary s expected funding to complete the
study. As of October 28, 2006, there was $745 accrued related to this issue. The Company expects
the $685 to be funded over five years, the expected timeframe of the study. Due to uncertainties
inherent in this matter, management is unable to estimate the Company s potential exposure,
including possible remediation or other environmental responsibilities that may result from this
matter which is not expected to occur for a number of years. These uncertainties primarily include
the completion and outcome of the environmental study and the percentage of contamination
attributable to the subsidiary and other parties. It is possible that our ultimate liability
resulting from this issue could materially differ from the October 28, 2006 accrual balance. In
the event of one or more adverse determinations related to this issue, the impact on our results of
operations could be material to any specific period. However, the Company s opinion is that future
expenditures for compliance with these laws and regulations, as they relate to the Lower Passaic
River issue and other potential issues, will not have a material effect on the Company s capital
expenditures, financial position, or competitive position.

The Company is also subject to various other claims, lawsuits, and administrative proceedings
arising in the ordinary course of business with respect to commercial, product liability,
employment, and other matters, several of which claim substantial amounts of damages. While it is
not possible to estimate with certainty the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to
these claims, lawsuits, and administrative proceedings, the Company believes that the outcome of
these other matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position or
results of operations.

The Company had guaranteed 5,660 Euros associated with the local government s financing of the
Company s Donchery, France facility expansion. The guarantees had various lives ranging from 3 to
15 years and are set to expire between April 2007 and April 2019. Through the end of 2006, the
Company paid 875 Euros toward this commitment through a transitory rent agreement. Subsequent to
October 28, 2006, the Company and the local government entered into a financing agreement related
to the Donchery, France facility to fulfill its remaining commitment. The financing agreement
continues to use the transitory rent payments which will be finalized once the local government s
financing amount is determined. During 2006, the long-term asset associated with the commitment
was reclassified as property, plant and equipment because the facility expansion was complete. The
remaining commitment of $6,079 is presented as an other current and long-term liability at October
28, 2006 and will be reclassified as debt during the first quarter of 2007.

45 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

17) Segment Information 

The Company s facilities are organized into two reportable segments and one group of operating
segments including businesses that do not meet the materiality threshold for separate disclosure.
The Company utilizes operating earnings to evaluate business segment and group performance and
determine the allocation of resources. Segment and group accounting policies are the same as
policies described in Note 1. A description of the Company s reportable segments and group
follows:

Custom Sheet and Rollstock     This segment operates throughout North America and has one plant
in Europe and is the largest extruder of plastic sheet, custom rollstock, laminates, and cell cast
acrylic sheet in North America. Its finished products are formed by its customers for use in a
wide variety of markets.

Color and Specialty Compounds     This segment operates throughout North America and has one
plant in Europe. It manufactures custom-designed plastic alloys, compounds, color concentrates,
and calendered film for utilization in numerous applications. This segment s facilities comprise
operating segments that are aggregated into a reportable segment based on the nature of the
products manufactured.

Engineered Products     This group operates in North America and manufactures a number of
proprietary items. These include injection molded products, complete thermoplastic wheels and
tires, and profile extruded products. This group s facilities comprise operating segments that are
combined because each operating segment does not meet the materiality threshold for separate
disclosure.

Corporate operating earnings include corporate office expenses and portions of information
technology and professional fees that are not allocated to the reportable segments and group.
Corporate assets consist primarily of deferred taxes and cash and cash equivalents.

46 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

In 2005, the Spartech PEP operating segment was moved from the Custom Sheet and Rollstock
reportable segment to the Color and Specialty Compounds reportable segment because management of
the operation was realigned to better leverage the Company s cost structure and improve
coordination of marketing and selling efforts. All years have been restated as if this change
occurred at the beginning of the periods presented.

In addition to external sales to customers, intersegment sales were $58,427, $52,696, and
$49,769 in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Most intersegment sales were generated from the
Color and Specialty Compounds segment.

Geographic financial information for 2006, 2005, and 2004 was as follows:

18) Quarterly Financial Information 

Certain unaudited quarterly financial information for years ended October 28, 2006 and October
29, 2005 was as follows:

Notes to table: 

(a) 
       
     Gross profit is calculated as net sales less cost of sales and amortization expense. 

(b) 
       
     Operating earnings and net earnings were impacted by special items and stock option expense
in 2006 and 2005 as follows: 

47 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

48 

Table of Contents   

Item 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

None.

Item 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

Spartech maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures which are designed to ensure
that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified under the SEC s rules and forms. Based on an evaluation performed, the Company s
certifying officers have concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of
October 28, 2006 to:

a) 
       
     ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported
within time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms; and 

b) 
       
     ensure that information is accumulated and communicated to the Company s management,
including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosures. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, there can be no assurance that the Company s disclosure
controls and procedures will detect or uncover all failures of persons within the Company and its
consolidated subsidiaries to report material information otherwise required to be set forth in the
Company s reports.

There was no change in the Company s internal control over financial reporting during the
quarter ended October 28, 2006, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.

Management s report on internal control over financial reporting, and the related report
of the Company s independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst   Young LLP, are included in
Item 8.

Item 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION  

None.

49 

Table of Contents   

PART III 

Item 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

The information concerning Directors of the Company contained in the section entitled
 Proposal 1: Election of Directors  of the Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting
of Shareholders, to be filed with the Commission on or about January 31, 2007, is incorporated
herein by reference in response to this item.

The information concerning Equity Compensation Plans is contained in the section entitled
 Equity Plan Compensation Information  of the Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders, to be filed with the Commission on or about January 31, 2007, and is
incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

The information regarding the audit committee and audit committee financial expert is
contained in the section entitled  Board of Directors and Committees  of the Definitive Proxy
Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be filed with the Commission on or about
January 31, 2007, and is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

The Board of Directors has established specific Corporate Governance Guidelines, a Code of
Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers, and a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for all
directors, officers and employees. These documents are provided on the Company s Web site at
www.spartech.com within the Investor Relations/Corporate Governance section of the site. At this
same Web site location, the Company provides an Ethics Hotline phone number that allows employees,
shareholders, and other interested parties to communicate with the Company s management or Audit
Committee (on an anonymous basis, if so desired) through an independent third-party hotline. In
addition, this same Web site location provides instructions for shareholders or other interested
parties to contact the Company s Board of Directors.

The rules of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) require Mr. Abd, our Chief Executive Officer,
to certify to the NYSE annually that he is not aware of any violation by the Company of the NYSE s
corporate governance listing standards. In addition, pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, Mr. Abd and Mr. Martin, our Chief Financial Officer, must each execute a certificate
as to the quality of our public disclosure as part of our quarterly reports to the Securities and
Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Their latest Section 302 certifications are filed with the SEC as
exhibits to this Form 10-K.

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following table provides certain information about the Company s executive officers, their
positions with the Company, and their prior business experience and employment for at least the
past five years:

Name  
       
      Age  
       
      Current Office, and Prior Positions and Employment  

George A. Abd

43 

President and Chief Executive Officer (since May
2005), Executive Vice President, Color and
Specialty Compounds (September 2000 to May 2005)
and Engineered Products (May 2004 to May 2005);
Vice President of Compounding for the Company s
Spartech Polycom Division from March 1998 to
September 2000. Mr. Abd held various positions
with Polycom Huntsman, Inc. for eleven years
prior to its acquisition by the Company in March
1998. Mr. Abd is also a member of the board of
directors of the Company. 

Randy C. Martin

44 

Executive Vice President (since September 2000)
Corporate Development (since May 2004) and Chief
Financial Officer (since May 1996); Corporate
Controller from September 1995 to May 1996; Vice
President, Finance from May 1996 to September
2000. Mr. Martin, a CPA and CMA, was with KPMG
Peat Marwick LLP for eleven years before joining
the Company in 1995. 

Steven J. Ploeger

45 

Executive Vice President Custom Sheet and
Rollstock and Engineered Products (since May
2004); Vice President Spartech Plastics from 2000
to 2004; General Manager Spartech Plastics  
North Region from 1996 to 2000. Mr. Ploeger also
held various sales management positions with the
Company from 1985 to 1996. 

50 

Table of Contents   

Name  
       
      Age  
       
      Current Office, and Prior Positions and Employment  

Michael L. Marcum

58 

Senior Vice President Color and Specialty
Compounds and Marketing and International
Business Development (since April 2006). Mr.
Marcum was most recently President   Chief
Executive Officer of American Decorative
Surfaces Inc. from 2001 to 2006, and with
Monsanto Company for 29 years in various
general management, corporate strategic
planning, and sales   marketing executive
positions, both domestically as well as
internationally, before joining the Company in
2006 

Jeffrey D. Fisher

58 

Senior Vice President and General Counsel
(since July 1999), and Secretary (since
September 2000). Mr. Fisher, an attorney, was
with the law firm of Armstrong Teasdale LLP
for 24 years, the last 17 years as a partner,
before joining the Company in July 1999. 

Darrell W. Betz

43 

Senior Vice President of Human Resources
(since April 2005). Mr. Betz was with Emerson
Electric for 16 years in various human
resource positions prior to joining the
Company in April 2005. 

Michael G. Marcely

39 

Vice President (since December 2004),
Corporate Controller (since July 2004) and
Assistant Secretary (since June 2005),
Director of Internal Audit (January 2003 to
July 2004). Mr. Marcely, a CPA, was with
Ernst   Young LLP for four years, Emerson
Electric for four years and KPMG LLP for six
years before joining the Company in 2003. 

Phillip M. Karig

51 

Vice President-Purchasing and Supply Chain
Management (since September 2001), Director of
Purchasing from February 2000 to September
2001. Mr. Karig was with Uniroyal Technology
Corporation for 12 years in various
purchasing, logistics, and materials
management positions before joining the
Company in February 2000. 

Item 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  

The information contained in the sections entitled  Executive Compensation  and  Compensation
of Directors  of the Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be
filed with the Commission on or about January 31, 2007, is incorporated herein by reference in
response to this item.

Item 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT   

The information contained in the section entitled  Security Ownership  of the Definitive Proxy
Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be filed with the Commission on or about
January 31, 2007, is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

Item 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   

The information contained in the sections entitled  Proposal 1: Election of Directors, 
 Executive Compensation  and  Certain Business Relationships and Transactions  of the Definitive
Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be filed with the Commission on or
about January 31, 2007, is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

Item 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

The information contained in the section entitled  Fees Paid to Auditors  of the Definitive
Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be filed with the Commission on or
about January 31, 2007, is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

51 

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

Item 15.    EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

(a) Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules

The following financial statements and financial statement schedules are included in this Form
10-K:

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

24 

Financial Statements

Consolidated Balance Sheets

26 

Consolidated Statements of Operations

27 

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity

28 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

29 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

30 

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

F-1 

(c)    Exhibits  

The Exhibits required to be filed by Item 601(a) of Regulation S-K are included as
follows:

3.1

(a) 

Certificate of Incorporation, as currently in effect 

3.2

(b) 

By-Laws, as currently in effect 

4

(c) 

Rights Agreement dated April 2, 2001 between Spartech
Corporation and Mellon Investor Services LLC, as Rights Agent 

10.1

(d) 

Retirement Agreement and Release dated May 6, 2005, between
Bradley B. Buechler and Spartech Corporation 

10.2

(e) 

Executive Severance and Noncompetition policy, as adopted March
7, 2006, including forms of Severance and Noncompetition Agreements entered into with
the Registrant s Executive Officers. 

10.3

(f) 

Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between Spartech
Corporation and each of its officers and directors 

10.4

(g) 

Spartech Corporation 2004 Equity Compensation Plan, as amended 

10.5

(h) 

Form of Incentive Stock Option 

10.6

(i) 

Form of Nonqualified Stock Option 

10.7

(j) 

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award 

10.8

(k) 

Spartech Corporation 2006 Executive Bonus Plan 

10.9

(l) 

Spartech Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended 

10.10

(m) 

Note Purchase Agreement dated June 5, 2006 between the company
and purchasers of $50 million of the company s 5.78% Senior Notes 

18

(n) 

Letter re change in accounting principle 

21

Subsidiaries of Registrant 

23.1

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

31

Certifications pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) 

32

Certifications pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(b) and 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 

52 

Table of Contents   

Notes to Exhibits 

(a)

Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Form 10-Q filed with the Commission on
June 8, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference. 

(b)

Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Form 8-K filed with the Commission on
March 9, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference. 

(c)

Filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s Form 8-K filed with the Commission on
April 5, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference. 

(d)

Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Form 10-Q filed with the Commission on
September 8, 2005 and incorporated herein by reference. 

(e)

Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Form 8-K filed with the Commission on
March 9, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference. 

(f)

Filed as Exhibit 10.10 to the Company s Form 10-K filed with the Commission on
January 17, 2003 and incorporated herein by reference. 

(g)

Filed as Exhibit 5.02(2) to the Company s Form 8-K filed with the Commission on
December 7, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference. 

(h)

Filed as Exhibit 1.01(2) to the Company s Form 8-K dated December 8, 2004 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

(i)

Filed as Exhibit 1.01(3) to the Company s Form 8-K dated December 8, 2004 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

(j)

Filed as Exhibit 1.01(4) to the Company s Form 8-K dated December 8, 2004 and
incorporated herein by reference. 

(k)

Filed as Exhibit 1.01(a) to the Company s Form 8-K filed with the Commission on
December 21, 2005 and incorporated herein by reference. 

(l)

Filed as Exhibit 1.01(b) to the Company s Form 8-K filed with the Commission on
December 21, 2005 and incorporated herein by reference. 

(m)

Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Form 8-K filed with the Commission on
June 8, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference. 

(n)

Filed as Exhibit 18 to the Company s Form 10-Q filed with the Commission on
June 8, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference. 

53 

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

SPARTECH CORPORATION 

/s/ George A. Abd

George A. Abd  

December 15, 2006  
      President and Chief Executive Officer   

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

Date  
       
      Signature  
       
      Title  

December 15, 2006

/s/ George A. Abd

George A. Abd

President and Chief
Executive Officer and
Director (Principal
Executive Officer) 

December 15, 2006

/s/ Randy C. Martin

Randy C. Martin

Executive Vice President,
Corporate Development and
Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial and
Accounting Officer) 

December 15, 2006

/s/ Ralph B. Andy

Ralph B. Andy

Director  

December 15, 2006

/s/ Lloyd E. Campbell

Lloyd E. Campbell

Director  

December 15, 2006

/s/ Edward J. Dineen

Edward J. Dineen

Director  

December 15, 2006

/s/ Victoria M. Holt

Victoria M. Holt

Director  

December 15, 2006

/s/ Walter J. Klein

Walter J. Klein

Director  

December 15, 2006

/s/ Pamela F. Lenehan

Pamela F. Lenehan

Director  

December 15, 2006

/s/ Jackson W. Robinson

Jackson W. Robinson

Director  

December 15, 2006

/s/ Craig A. Wolfanger

Craig A. Wolfanger

Director  

54 

Table of Contents   

SPARTECH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

  FOR YEARS ENDED 2006, 2005, AND 2004 
(Dollars in thousands) 

F-1

<EX-21>
 2
 c10994exv21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21 

SPARTECH CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT 

Incorporation or  

Legal Entity   
       
       DBA   
       
       Organization   

Atlas Alchem Plastics, Inc.

Spartech Plastics

Delaware 

TKM Plastics, L.P.

Spartech Plastics

Missouri 

Spartech Plastics, LLC

Spartech Plastics

Delaware 

Alchem Plastics, Inc.

Spartech Plastics

Delaware 

Alchem Plastics Corporation

Spartech Plastics

Georgia 

Spartech SPD, LLC

Spartech Plastics

Delaware 

Spartech Polycast, Inc.

Spartech Polycast

Delaware 

Spartech Polycom, Inc.

Spartech Polycom

Pennsylvania 

Spartech Polycom, S.A.S.

Spartech Polycom

France 

UVTEC, L.P.

Spartech Polycom

Texas 

Franklin-Burlington Plastics, Inc.

Spartech Polycom

Delaware 

Spartech FCD, LLC

Spartech Calendered 
and Converted  
Products Division

Delaware 

Spartech CMD, LLC

Spartech CMD

Delaware 

Polymer Extruded Products, Inc.

Spartech PEP

New Jersey 

Spartech Townsend, Inc.

Spartech Townsend

Delaware 

Spartech Industries Florida, Inc.

Spartech Marine

Delaware 

Spartech Industries, Inc.

Spartech Industries

Delaware 

Alshin Tire Corporation

Spartech Industries

California 

Spartech Canada, Inc.

Spartech Color

New Brunswick 

Spartech Plastics 

Spartech Profiles 

Spartech de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Spartech Plastics

Mexico 

Spartech Polycom 

Industrias Spartech de Mexico, 

S.R.L. de C.V.

Spartech Industries

Mexico 

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 3
 c10994exv23w1.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1 

Consent of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements:

of our reports dated December 15, 2006, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and
schedules of Spartech Corporation and Subsidiaries, Spartech Corporation and Subsidiaries
management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Spartech Corporation and
Subsidiaries, included in its Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended October 28, 2006.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

St. Louis, Missouri 
December 20, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 c10994exv31w1.htm
 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

CERTIFICATION

I, George A. Abd, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Spartech Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this annual report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors: 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control or financial
reporting. 

Date December 20, 2006  
     By:   
     /s/ George A. Abd

George A. Abd  

President and Chief Executive Officer  
Spartech Corporation  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 c10994exv31w2.htm
 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

CERTIFICATION

I, Randy C. Martin, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Spartech Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this annual report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors: 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control or financial
reporting. 

Date December 20, 2006  
     By:   
     /s/ Randy C. Martin

Randy C. Martin  

Executive Vice President Corporate Development  
and
Chief Financial Officer  
Spartech Corporation  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 6
 c10994exv32.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS

exv32 

EXHIBIT 32 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, each of the undersigned certifies that this periodic report fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
that the information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Spartech Corporation.

Date: December 20, 2006

/s/ George A. Abd

George A. Abd  

President and Chief Executive Officer   

/s/ Randy C. Martin

Randy C. Martin  

Executive Vice President Corporate Development 
and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-32>

