<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061109_10-K_edgar_data_107687_0000897101-06-002321_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1060394</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>151497</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>14067</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>509183</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>47</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000897101-06-002321.hdr.sgml : 20061109
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061109100815
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000897101-06-002321
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060826
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061109
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061109

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WINNEBAGO INDUSTRIES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000107687
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MOTOR HOMES [3716]
		IRS NUMBER:				420802678
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			IA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0828

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06403
		FILM NUMBER:		061199845

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 152
		CITY:			FOREST CITY
		STATE:			IA
		ZIP:			50436
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5155826808

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 152
		CITY:			FOREST CITY
		STATE:			IA
		ZIP:			50436

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	MODERNISTIC INDUSTRIES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19670528

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FnSWvz2kXkoInJ+c3fXl0n0mJwP54ERAusJUvw+pY3QMd92d/+kOcProSGGxnUYp
 pq0mZr3fElP+BwpUgZflKQ==

 0000897101-06-002321.txt : 20061109

10-K
 1
 wgo064295_10k.htm
 FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED AUGUST 26, 2006

Winnebago Industries, Inc. Form 10-K dated August 26, 2006  

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES  
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 20549   

   FORM 10-K    

WINNEBAGO INDUSTRIES,
INC.  
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

Registrant s
telephone number, including area code: (641) 585-3535  

   SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE
ACT:   

NAME OF
  EACH EXCHANGE ON  

TITLE OF
  EACH CLASS  

WHICH
  REGISTERED  

Common
  Stock ($.50 par value)  

The New
  York Stock Exchange, Inc.  

and
  Preferred Share Purchase Rights  

Chicago
  Stock Exchange, Inc.  

NYSE Arca  

SECURITIES REGISTERED
PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:   

  None  

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act). Yes     
 No           

            Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange
Act. Yes             No      

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes      
 No            

            Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K  __ .

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes        No            

            Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes              No        

            Aggregate
market value of the common stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant:
$913,415,288 (29,126,763 shares at the closing price on the New York Stock
Exchange of $31.36 on February 24,
2006).   

            Common
stock outstanding on October 31, 2006, 31,364,089 shares.   

Winnebago Industries, Inc.   2006 Form 10-K Annual Report
 
Table of Contents    

Page   

PART I      

Item 1.   

Business   

1  

Item 1A.   

Risk
Factors   

5  

Item 1B.   

Unresolved Staff
Comments   

7  

Item 2.   

Properties   

7  

Item 3.   

Legal
Proceedings   

7  

Item 4.   

Submission of
Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

7  

PART II    

Item 5.   

Market for the
Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
  Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

9  

Item 6.   

Selected Financial
Data   

10  

Item 7.   

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
  Results of Operations   

10  

Item 7A.   

Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

16  

Item 8.   

Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data   

17  

Item 9.   

Changes In and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
  Financial Disclosure   

38  

Item 9A.   

Controls and
Procedures   

38  

Item 9B.   

Other
Information   

38  

PART
  III    

Item 10.   

Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant   

38  

Item 11.   

Executive
Compensation   

39  

Item 12.   

Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
  and Related Stockholder Matters   

39  

Item 13.   

Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions   

39  

Item 14.   

Principal
Accounting Fees and Services   

39  

PART IV    

Item 15.   

Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedules   

39  

Table of Contents   

   WINNEBAGO INDUSTRIES, INC.   

  FORM 10-K  

  Report for
the Fiscal Year Ended August 26, 2006  

   Forward Looking
Information    

  Certain of the matters discussed in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K are  forward looking statements  within the meaning
of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which involve risks and uncertainties,
including, but not limited to, the effect of global tensions, a decline in
consumer confidence, availability and price of fuel, a significant increase in
interest rates, a slowdown in the economy, availability of chassis and other
key component parts, sales order cancellations, slower than anticipated sales
of new or existing products, new product introductions by competitors, and
other factors which may be disclosed throughout this Annual Report on Form
10-K. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the  forward
looking statements  are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels
of activity, performance or achievements. Undue reliance should not be placed
on these  forward looking statements,  which speak only as of the date of this
report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward
looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise, except as required by law or the rules of the New York Stock
Exchange.   

     PART I   

ITEM 1.   Business   

   General    

  The  Company,   we,   our,  and  us 
are
used interchangeably to refer to Winnebago Industries, Inc. or Winnebago
Industries, Inc. and its subsidiaries, as appropriate to the context.   

  Winnebago Industries, Inc., headquartered in
Forest City, Iowa, is a leading United States manufacturer of motor homes which
are self-contained recreation vehicles used primarily in leisure travel and
outdoor recreation activities. We sell motor homes through independent dealers
under the Winnebago and Itasca brand names. Other products manufactured by us
consist primarily of original equipment manufacturing (OEM) parts, including
extruded aluminum and other component products for other manufacturers and
commercial vehicles.   

  We were incorporated under the laws of the
state of Iowa on February 12, 1958, and adopted our present name on February 28, 1961. Our
executive offices are located at 605 West Crystal Lake Road in Forest City,
Iowa. Our telephone number is (641) 585-3535.  

   Available Information    

  Our Web site, located at
 www.winnebagoind.com , provides additional information about us. On our Web site
you can obtain, free of charge, this and prior year Annual Reports on Form
10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all of
our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our recent press
releases are also available on our Web site. Our Web site also contains
important information regarding our corporate governance practices. The
information on our Web site is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.    

  1  

Table of Contents   

Principal Products    

   Net revenues by major product classes:    

(1)      The fiscal
year ended August 31, 2002 contained 53 weeks, all other fiscal years contained
52 weeks.     

   Motor Homes   

  A motor home
is a self-propelled mobile dwelling used primarily as temporary living quarters
during vacation and camping trips, or to support some other active
lifestyle.  The Recreation Vehicle
Industry Association (RVIA) classifies motor homes into three types which are
defined as follows:    

Class A
  models are conventional motor homes constructed directly on medium- and
  heavy-duty truck chassis, which include the engine and drivetrain
  components.  The living area and
  driver s compartment are designed and produced by the motor home
  manufacturer.  We manufacture Class A
  motor homes with gas and diesel engines.   

Class B
  models are panel-type trucks to which sleeping, kitchen, and/or toilet
  facilities are added.  These models
  also have a top extension to provide more headroom.  

Class C
  models are mini motor homes built on van-type chassis onto which the motor
  home manufacturer constructs a living area with access to the driver s
  compartment.  We manufacture Class C
  motor homes with gas and diesel engines.   

We currently
manufacture and sell Class A and Class C motor homes under the Winnebago and Itasca
brand names.  Our product offerings are
as follows:   

Type   

Winnebago   

Itasca   

Class C  

Aspect,
  Access, Outlook, View - diesel  

Cambria,
  Impulse, Spirit, Navion - diesel  

Class A
  (gas)  

Sightseer,
  Voyage, Adventurer  

Sunova,
  Sunrise, Suncruiser  

Class A
  (diesel)  

Journey,
  Tour, Vectra  

Meridian,
  Ellipse, Horizon  

These motor
homes generally provide living accommodations for up to seven people and
include kitchen, dining, sleeping and bath areas, and in some models, a
lounge.  Optional equipment accessories
include, among other items, generator, home theater systems, king-size beds, leather
and UltraLeather    upholstery and a wide selection of interior
equipment.  With the purchase of any new
motor home, we offer a comprehensive 12-month/15,000-mile warranty on the coach
and a 3-year/36,000-mile warranty on sidewalls and floors.   

  Our Class A
and Class C motor homes are sold by dealers in the retail market with
manufacturer s suggested retail prices ranging from approximately $58,000 to
$286,000, depending on size and model, plus optional equipment and delivery
charges.  Our motor homes range in
length from 22 to 40 feet.   

  2  

Table of Contents   

  Unit sales of
our recreation vehicles for the last five fiscal years were as follows:   

(1)      The fiscal year ended August 31, 2002
contained 53 weeks, all other fiscal years contained 52 weeks.   

  The primary
use of recreation vehicles for leisure travel and outdoor recreation has
historically led to a peak retail selling season concentrated in the spring and
summer months.  Our sales of recreation
vehicles are generally influenced by this pattern in retail sales, but can also
be affected by the level of dealer inventory.
Our products are generally manufactured against orders from dealers and
from time to time to build inventory to satisfy the peak selling season.   

   Motor Home Parts and Services   

  Motor home
parts and service activities represent revenues generated by service work we
perform for our retail customers at our Forest City, Iowa facility and parts we
sell to our dealers.  We maintain $2.6
million in parts inventory located in a 450,000-square foot warehouse with what
we believe to be the most sophisticated distribution and tracking system in the
industry.  Our competitive strategy is
to provide long-term proprietary manufactured parts available through our
dealer network, which increases customer satisfaction and the value of our
motor homes.   

   Other Manufactured Products   

  We manufacture
aluminum extrusions which are sold to over 75 customers.  To a limited extent, we manufacture other
component parts sold to outside manufacturers.
We also manufacture commercial vehicles which are motor home shells,
primarily custom designed for the buyer s special needs and requirements, such
as a law enforcement command center and mobile medical and dental clinics.  These commercial vehicles are sold through
our dealer network.   

   Production   

  We generally
produce motor homes to order.  We have
the ability to increase our capacity by scheduling overtime and/or hiring
additional production employees.   

  Our Forest
City facilities have been designed to provide vertically integrated production
line manufacturing.  We produce
substantially all of the raw aluminum extrusions used for main frame support
and interior and exterior trim in our recreation vehicles.  We also operate a fiberglass manufacturing
and component assembly facility in Hampton, Iowa, and an assembly plant and a
cabinet products manufacturing facility in Charles City, Iowa.  Our motor home bodies are made from various
materials and structural components which are typically laminated into rigid,
lightweight panels.  Body designs are
developed with computer design and analysis, and subjected to a variety of
tests and evaluations to meet our standards and requirements.  We manufacture a number of components
utilized in our motor homes, with the principal exception of the chassis,
engines, generators and appliances.    

  Most of the
raw materials and components that we utilize are obtainable from numerous
sources.  Certain components are
produced by only a small group of quality suppliers who presently have the
capacity to supply sufficient quantities to meet our needs.  This is especially true in the case of motor
home chassis, where Ford Motor Company, Freightliner Custom Chassis
Corporation, Workhorse Custom Chassis LLC, DaimlerChrysler Motors Company LLC
and Chevrolet General Motors Company are our dominant suppliers.  We purchase Class A and C chassis from Ford
Motor Company, Class A chassis from Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation and
Workhorse Custom Chassis LLC, and Class C chassis from DaimlerChrysler Motors
Company LLC and Chevrolet General Motors Company.  In Fiscal 2006, only four vendors, Ford Motor Company,
Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation, Workhorse Custom Chassis LLC and
DaimlerChrysler Motors Company LLC, individually accounted for more than five
percent of our raw material purchases, approximating 38 percent in
aggregate.     

  3  

Table of Contents   

   Distribution and Financing    

  We market our
recreation vehicles on a wholesale basis to a diversified independent dealer
organization located throughout the United States and, to a limited extent, in
Canada.  Foreign sales, including
Canada, were less than five percent of net revenues during each of the past
three fiscal years.  As of August 26,
2006 and August 27, 2005, the motor home dealer organization in the United
States and Canada included approximately 290 and 300 dealer locations,
respectively.  During Fiscal 2006, six
dealer organizations accounted for approximately 25 percent of motor home unit
sales and only one dealer organization accounted for more than five percent of
motor home unit sales, that dealer being La Mesa RV Center, Inc. which
accounted for approximately 9 percent of such sales.    

  We have sales
and service agreements with dealers which generally have a term of ten
years.  Many of the dealers are also
engaged in other areas of business, including the sale of automobiles, and many
dealers carry one or more competitive lines.
We continue to place high emphasis on the capability of our dealers to
provide complete service for our recreation vehicles.  Dealers are obligated to provide full service for owners of our
recreation vehicles, or in lieu thereof, to secure such service at their own
expense from other authorized firms.   

  At August 26,
2006, we had a staff of 31 people engaged in field sales and service to the
motor home dealer organization.   

  We advertise
and promote our products through national RV magazines, the Go RVing national
advertising campaign, direct-mail campaigns, various national promotional
opportunities and on a local basis through trade shows, television, radio and
newspapers, primarily in connection with area dealers.   

  Recreation
vehicle sales to dealers are made on cash terms.  Most dealers are financed on a  floorplan  basis under which a
bank or finance company lends the dealer all, or substantially all, of the
purchase price, collateralized by a security interest in the merchandise
purchased.  As is customary in the
recreation vehicle industry, we typically enter into a repurchase agreement
with a lending institution financing a dealer s purchase of our product upon
the lending institution s request and after completion of a credit check of the
dealer involved.  Our repurchase
agreements provide that for up to 12 months after a unit is financed, in the
event of default by the dealer on the agreement to pay the lending institution,
we will repurchase the financed merchandise.
Our maximum exposure under repurchase agreements varies significantly
from time to time, depending upon general economic conditions, seasonal
shipments, competition, dealer organization, gasoline availability and price
and the cost of bank financing.  (See
Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements)   

   Competition    

  The recreation
vehicle market is highly competitive, both as to price and quality of the
product.  We believe our principal
competitive advantages are our brand name recognition, the quality of our
products and our warranty and service capability.  We also believe that our prices are competitive with the
competitions  units of comparable size and quality.   

  We are a
leading U.S. manufacturer of motor homes.
For the 12 months ended August 31, 2006, RVIA reported U.S.
manufacturers  factory shipments of 33,200 Class A motor homes and 20,500 Class
C motor homes.  Our unit sales of such
products for the last five fiscal years are shown on page 3 of this
report.  We have numerous competitors
and potential competitors in this industry.
The six largest U.S. manufacturers represented approximately 74 percent
of the combined Class A and Class C motor home retail sales for the eight
months ended August 31, 2006, including our sales, which represented
approximately 19 percent of the market.
We are not a significant factor in the markets for our motor home parts
and services and other manufactured products.   

   Regulation, Trademarks and Patents    

  We are subject
to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the
National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, under which the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration may require manufacturers to recall recreation
vehicles that contain safety-related defects, and numerous state consumer
protection laws and regulations relating to the operation of motor vehicles,
including so-called  Lemon Laws.   We
are subject to regulations promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA).  Our facilities
are periodically inspected by federal and state agencies, such as OSHA.  We believe that our products and facilities
comply in all material respects with the applicable vehicle safety, consumer
protection, RVIA and OSHA regulations and standards.  Amendments to any of these regulations or the implementation of
new regulations, however, could significantly increase the cost of
manufacturing, purchasing, operating or selling our products and could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations.  Our failure to comply with present or future regulations could
result in fines being imposed on us, potential civil and criminal liability,
suspension of sales or production, or cessation of operations.  In addition, a major product recall could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.   

  4  

Table of Contents   

  Our operations
are subject to a variety of federal and state environmental laws and
regulations relating to the use, generation, storage, treatment, emission and
disposal of hazardous materials and wastes and noise pollution.  Although we believe that we currently are in
material compliance with applicable environmental regulations, the failure by us
to comply with present or future laws and regulations could result in fines
being imposed on us, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of
production or operations, alterations to the manufacturing process, or costly
cleanup or capital expenditures.     

  We have
several registered trademarks which include:
Adventurer, Aspect, Cambria, Ellipse, Horizon, Itasca, Journey,
Meridian, Navion, Outlook, Sightseer, Spirit, Suncruiser, Sunova, Sunrise,
Tour, Vectra, View, Voyage, and Winnebago.
We believe that our trademarks and trade names are significant to our
business and we will vigorously protect them against infringement.  We are not dependent upon any patents or
technology licenses for the conduct of our business.    

   Research and Development    

  Research and
development expenditures are expensed as incurred.  During Fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, we spent approximately $3.9
million, $3.6 million and $3.7 million, respectively, on research and
development activities.   

   Human Resources    

  As of
September 1, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we employed approximately 3,150, 3,610 and
4,220 persons, respectively.  Of these,
approximately 2,510, 2,940 and 3,530 persons, respectively, were engaged in
manufacturing and shipping functions.
None of our employees are covered under a collective bargaining
agreement.   

     ITEM 1A.   Risk Factors   

  The following
risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other
information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The risks and uncertainties described below
are not the only ones we face, but represent some of the most significant risk
factors that we believe may adversely affect the RV industry and our business,
operations or financial position.   

   Competition    

  The market for
recreation vehicles is very competitive.
Competition in this industry is based upon price, design, value, quality
and service.  There can be no assurance
that existing or new competitors will not develop products that are superior to
our recreation vehicles or that achieve better consumer acceptance, thereby
adversely affecting market share, sales volume and profit margins.   

   Cyclicality and Seasonality    

  The recreation
vehicle industry has been characterized by cycles of growth and contraction in
consumer demand, reflecting prevailing economic, demographic, and political
conditions, which affect disposable income for leisure-time activities.  Consequently, the results for any prior
period may not be indicative of results for any future period.    

Seasonal
factors, over which we have no control, also have an effect on the demand for
our products.  Demand in the recreation
vehicle industry generally declines over the winter season, while sales are
generally highest during the spring and summer months.  Also, unusually severe weather conditions in
some markets may impact demand.   

   Fuel Availability and Prices    

  Gasoline or
diesel fuel is required for the operation of motorized recreation
vehicles.  There can be no assurance
that the supply of these petroleum products will continue uninterrupted, that
rationing will not be imposed or that the price of or tax on these petroleum
products will not significantly increase in the future.  Fuel shortages and substantial increases in
fuel prices have had a material adverse effect on the recreation vehicle
industry as a whole in the past and could have a material adverse effect on us
in the future.   

   General Economic Conditions and Certain Other
External Factors    

  Companies
within the recreation vehicle industry are subject to volatility in operating
results due to external factors such as general economic conditions and
political changes.  Specific factors
affecting the recreation vehicle industry include:  

overall
  consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending;   

interest
  rates;    

inventory
  levels, including the level of retail sales at dealer locations;   

employment
  trends;   

the
  adverse impact of global tensions on consumer spending and travel-related
  activities; and   

adverse
  impact on margins of increases in raw material costs which we are unable to
  pass on to customers without negatively affecting sales.   

5  

Table of Contents   

   Dependence on Chassis Suppliers    

  Most RV
components are readily available from numerous sources.  However, a few components are produced by
only a small group of quality suppliers that have the capacity to supply large
quantities on a national basis.  This is
especially true in the case of motor home chassis, where Ford Motor Company,
Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation, Workhorse Custom Chassis LLC,
DaimlerChrysler Motors Company LLC and Chevrolet General Motors Company are the
Company s major suppliers. Decisions by suppliers to decrease production,
utilize production internally, or shortages, production delays or work
stoppages by the employees of such suppliers could have a material adverse
effect on our ability to produce motor homes and ultimately, on the results
from operations.   

   Potential Liabilities Under Repurchase
Agreements    

  In accordance
with customary practice in the recreation vehicle industry, we enter into
formal repurchase agreements with lending institutions pursuant to which it is
agreed, in the event of a default by an independent retailer in its obligation
to a lender, we will repurchase product at declining prices over the term of
the agreements, typically 12 months.
The difference between the gross repurchase price and the price at which
the repurchased product can then be resold, which is typically at a discount to
the gross repurchase price, represents a potential expense to us.  Thus, if we were obligated to repurchase a
large number of recreation vehicles in the future, this would increase costs,
which could have a negative effect on earnings.  Our maximum potential exposure under these formal repurchase
agreements was approximately $278.6 million at August 26, 2006.  Losses under these agreements have not been
material in the past.  Tightened credit
standards by lenders and more aggressive attempts to accelerate collection of
outstanding accounts with dealers could result in defaults by dealers and
consequent repurchase obligations that may be higher than has historically been
the case.   

   Warranty Claims    

  We are subject
to warranty claims in the ordinary course of our business.  Although we maintain reserves for such
claims, which to date have been adequate, there can be no assurance that
warranty expense levels will remain at current levels or that such reserves
will continue to be adequate.  A
significant increase in warranty claims exceeding our current warranty expense
levels could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
condition and cash flows.   

  In addition to
the costs associated with the contractual warranty coverage provided on our
motor homes, we also occasionally incur costs as a result of additional service
actions not covered by our warranties, including product recalls and customer
satisfaction actions.  Although we
estimate and reserve for the cost of these service actions, there can be no
assurance that expense levels will remain at current levels or such reserves
will continue to be adequate.   

   Product Liability    

  We are
involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including a
variety of warranty,  Lemon Law  and product liability claims typical in the
recreation vehicle industry.  We are
self-insured for a portion of product liability claims.  Self-insurance retention liability for the
past five fiscal years was $2.5 million per occurrence and $6.0 million in
aggregate per policy year.  In the event
that the annual aggregate of the self-insured retention is exhausted by payment
of claims and defense expenses, a deductible of $250,000, excluding defense
expenses, is applicable to each claim covered under this policy.  We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient
to cover all future claims against us, which may have a material adverse effect
on our results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, if these claims rise to a level of frequency or size
that are significantly higher
than similar claims made against our competitors, our reputation and business may
be harmed.   

   Government Regulation    

  We are subject
to numerous federal, state and local regulations governing the manufacture and
sale of our products, including the provisions of the National Traffic and
Motor Vehicle Safety Act ( the Motor Vehicle Act ), and the safety standards
for recreation vehicles and components which have been promulgated under the
Motor Vehicle Act by the Department of Transportation.  The Motor Vehicle Act authorizes the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to require a manufacturer to
recall and repair vehicles which contain certain hazards or defects.  Any recalls of our vehicles, voluntary or
involuntary, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations,
financial condition and cash flows.   

  We are also
subject to federal and numerous state consumer protection and unfair trade
practice laws and regulations relating to the sale, transportation and
marketing of motor vehicles, including so-called  Lemon Laws.   Federal and state laws and regulations also
impose upon vehicle operators various restrictions on the weight, length and
width of motor vehicles,   

  6  

Table of Contents   

including motor homes that may be operated in
certain jurisdictions or on certain roadways.
Certain jurisdictions also prohibit the sale of vehicles exceeding
length restrictions.    

  Finally, federal and state authorities also have various
environmental control standards relating to air, water, noise pollution and
hazardous waste generation and disposal which affect us and our operations.  Failure to comply with any of the foregoing
laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations,
financial condition and cash flows.   

     ITEM 1B.   Unresolved Staff Comments    

  None   

     ITEM 2.   Properties   

  Our principal
manufacturing, maintenance and service operations are conducted in
multi-building complexes owned by us.
The following sets forth our material facilities as of August 26, 2006:   

The lease on
the Hampton facility will expire December 31, 2006.  Our facilities in Forest City are located on approximately 780
acres of land, all owned by us.  We
lease 220,000 square feet of our warehouse facilities in Forest City to
others.  Most of our buildings are of
steel or steel and concrete construction and are protected from fire with
high-pressure sprinkler systems, dust collector systems, automatic fire doors
and alarm systems.  We believe that our
facilities and equipment are well maintained, in excellent condition and
suitable for the purposes for which they are intended.  Should we require increased production
capacity in the future, we believe that additional or alternative space
adequate to serve our foreseeable needs would be available.   

An unaffiliated
third-party supplier of painting services (the  Supplier ) for our motor homes
has leased paint facilities in Forest City, Iowa and Charles City, Iowa.  We have guaranteed a portion of the lease
payment obligations of the Supplier.
(See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements)     

     ITEM 3.   Legal Proceedings   

  We are
involved in various legal proceedings which are ordinary routine litigation
incidents to our business, some of which are covered in whole or in part by
insurance.  While it is impossible to
estimate with certainty the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect
to this litigation, we are of the opinion that while the final resolution of
any such litigation may have an impact on our consolidated results for a
particular reporting period, the ultimate disposition of such litigation will
not have any material adverse effect on our financial position, results of
operations or liquidity.   

     ITEM 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders   

None   

   Executive Officers of the Registrant    

7  

Table of Contents   

Officers are
elected annually by the Board of Directors.
There are no family relationships between or among any of the Executive
Officers or Directors of the Company.   

  Mr. Hertzke
has over 35 years of experience with Winnebago Industries.  He has been Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer since 1998.  He also served as
President from 1996 to 2005.  He was
elected to the position of Chief Operating Officer (COO) in June 1995 and also
served as Senior Vice President, COO from December 1995 to July 1996.  Mr. Hertzke served a variety of management
positions since joining the Company as an hourly employee in 1971.   

  Mr. Barker has
over 37 years of experience with Winnebago Industries.  He has been President since May 2005.  In addition, he also served as Chief
Financial Officer (CFO) until November 2005.
Mr. Barker served as Senior Vice President, CFO from January 2003 until
May 2005.  He served as Vice President,
CFO from 1989 to January 2003.  He held
a variety of management positions since joining the Company in 1969 as a cost
accountant.   

  Mr. Olson has
over 37 years of experience with Winnebago Industries.  He has been Senior Vice President, Operations
since January 2006.  He served as Vice
President, Manufacturing from August 1996 to January 2006.  He served a variety of management and
material handling positions since joining the Company as an hourly production
employee in 1969.   

  Mr. Beebe has over
32 years of experience with Winnebago Industries.  He has been Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since
1986.  He joined the Company as
Secretary and General Counsel in 1974.
Prior to joining the Company,
Mr. Beebe was partner in the Law Firm of Cooper, Sinnard and Beebe;
Assistant Attorney General for the State of Iowa; and Associate in the Law Firm
of Jones, Cambridge and Carl.    

  Mr. Gossett
has over seven years of experience with Winnebago Industries.  He has been Vice President, Administration
since joining the Company in 1998.
Prior to joining Winnebago Industries, Mr. Gossett served as Vice
President of Human Resources and Administration for TCB, Inc. and served in
various human resource and personnel positions with Newell Corporation, Anchor
Hocking Division.   

  Mr. Martin has
over 12 years of experience with Winnebago Industries.  He has been Vice President, Sales and
Marketing since February 2003.  He
joined the Company as Director of Marketing in 1994.  Prior to joining Winnebago Industries, he was employed as Account
Supervisor for Carlson Marketing Group and as the Advertising and Sales
Promotion Manager for Steiger Tractor, Inc.   

  Ms. Nielsen
has one year of experience with Winnebago Industries.  She has been Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since
November 2005.  Ms. Nielsen joined the
Company in August 2005 as Director of Special Projects and Training.  Prior to joining Winnebago Industries, she was
employed by Deloitte   Touche LLP since 1995, most recently in the position
of Assurance and Advisory Services Senior Manager since 2003 and a Manager
since 2000.   

  Mr. O Leary
has over 34 years of experience with Winnebago Industries.  He has been Vice President, Product
Development since June 2001.  He served
as Director of Product Planning from February 1997 to June 2001 and as Director
of Product Sales from January 1988 to February 1997.  He has held several management positions since joining the
Company in 1972 as an hourly production employee.   

  Mr. Potts has
over 23 years of experience with Winnebago Industries.  He was elected Vice President, Manufacturing
in October 2006.  He served as Director
of Manufacturing from February 2006 to October 2006.  Prior to that time, he served as general manager of Manufacturing
Services and various other manufacturing and engineering supervisory
positions.  He joined the Company in
1983 as a senior tool designer.   

  Mr. Hrubes has
over 35 years of experience with Winnebago Industries.  He has been Controller since December
1996.  He served as the General
Accounting Manager from July 1983 to December 1996 and has held various
positions in the finance area since joining the Company in 1971 as an
accountant.   

  Mr. Soczek has
over 31 years of experience with Winnebago Industries.  He has been Treasurer since December
1996.  He served as Risk Manager from
July 1989 to December 1996 and held several management positions since joining
the Company in 1975 as a warranty auditor.   

  8  

Table of Contents   

PART II   

     ITEM 5.  Market for
the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities   

   Market Information    

  Our common
stock is listed on the New York, Chicago and NYSE Arca Exchanges and our ticker
symbol is WGO.   

  Below are the
New York Stock Exchange high, low and closing prices of Winnebago Industries,
Inc. stock for each quarter of Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005.   

Holders

Shareholders
of record as of October 31, 2006:  3,871  

   Dividends Paid Per Share    

On October 11,
2006, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per
common share payable  January 8, 2007 to
shareholders of record as of December 8, 2006.
We paid dividends of $0.36 per common share during Fiscal 2006 and $0.28
per common share during Fiscal 2005.     

   Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    

  On April 12,
2006, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of outstanding shares of
our common stock, depending on market conditions, for an aggregate consideration
of up to $50 million.  There is no time
restriction on this authorization.  As
of August 26, 2006, there had been 970,000 shares, at an aggregate cost of
$27.8 million, repurchased under this authorization, leaving approximately
$22.2 million still available for additional purchases.   

  Under a
previous authorization which was completed in April 2006, we repurchased
1,007,000 shares for $30.0 million during Fiscal 2006.   

  During Fiscal
2006, we repurchased a total of 1,977,000 shares for an aggregate consideration
of approximately $57.8 million.   

  This table
provides information with respect to purchases by us of shares of our common
stock during each fiscal month of the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006:   

9  

Table of Contents   

Equity Compensation Plan Information    

  The following
table provides information as of August 26, 2006 with respect to shares of our
common stock that may be issued under our existing equity compensation
plans:     

(1)  

This number includes
  785,000 stock options granted under the 2004 Incentive Compensation Plan (the
   Plan ).  Also included are 806,676
  options granted under the 1997 Stock Option Plan.   

(2)  

This number represents
  stock options available for grant under the Plan as of August 26, 2006.  The Plan replaced the 1997 Stock Option
  Plan effective January 1, 2004.  No
  new grants may be made under the 1997 Stock Option Plan.  Any stock options previously granted under
  the 1997 Stock Option Plan will continue to vest and/or be exercisable in
  accordance with their original terms and conditions.   

(3)  

Our sole Equity
  Compensation Plan not previously submitted to our shareholders for approval
  is the Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan.  The Board of Directors may terminate the Directors  Deferred
  Compensation Plan at any time.  If not
  terminated earlier, the Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan will
  automatically terminate on June 30, 2013.
  For a description of the key provisions of the Directors  Deferred
  Compensation Plan, see the information in our Proxy Statement for the Annual
  Meeting of Shareholders scheduled to be held January 9, 2007 under the
  caption  Board of Directors, Committees of the Board and Corporate Governance
  - Director Compensation,  which information is incorporated by reference herein.

(4)  

Represents shares of common
  stock underlying stock units, payable on a one-for-one basis, credited to
  stock unit accounts as of August 26, 2006 under the Directors  Deferred
  Compensation Plan.   

(5)  

The table does not reflect
  a specific number of stock units which may be distributed pursuant to the
  Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan.
  The Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan does not limit the number of
  stock units issuable thereunder.  The
  number of stock units to be distributed pursuant to the Directors  Deferred
  Compensation Plan will be based on the amount of the director s compensation
  deferred and the per share price of our common stock at the time of deferral.

ITEM 6.   Selected Financial Data (See Pages 45 and
46)   

     ITEM 7.   Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

   Executive Overview    

  Winnebago
Industries, Inc. is a leading motor home manufacturer with a proud history of
manufacturing recreation vehicles for the last 48 years.  Our current retail market share of Class A
and Class C motor home retail sales is 18.9 percent for calendar year-to-date
through August 2006 according to Statistical Surveys, Inc.  There was a change in direction of the
Company following our founder s death in 1996.  We divested ourselves of unprofitable business ventures with a
strategy to refocus on producing quality motor homes in a profitable
manner.  We measure profitability by
using five guidelines:  return on assets
(ROA), return on equity (ROE), return on invested capital (ROIC), operating
income as a percent of net revenues, and net income as a percent of net
revenues.  Our primary goal is to be a
leader in profitability in the recreation vehicle industry.  Our financial performance for the last ten
years is evidence of this focus on profitability.  As a result of our performance, we have returned significant
profits back to our shareholders through stock repurchases and dividends.  For example, since 1997, we have repurchased
23.8 million shares of common stock (adjusted for the 2-for-1 stock split
effective March 5, 2004) at an aggregate cost of approximately $336.3
million.     

  In Fiscal
2006, we saw two principal factors impact us financially:  volume decline and a product mix shift.  Industry retail sales per
Statistical
Surveys, Inc., of Class A and Class C motor homes calendar year-to-date through
August were down 13.1 percent, we believe, in response to rising interest rates
and record fuel prices.  Although our
volume decline was not as extreme as the industry retail decline due to the
popularity of our new Class C product offerings, our volume did decrease 7.5
percent from last fiscal year.  We also
noted a trend in the motorized retail market during Fiscal 2006 towards
lower-priced products.  Consequently, we
have seen a shift in the mix of products that we sold to more Class C and
lower-priced Class A products.  As a
result of both lower volumes and the shift in mix to lower-priced products
during Fiscal 2006, our net   

  10  

Table of Contents   

revenues
decreased and our profit margins were negatively impacted.  However, we remained solidly profitable
overall in Fiscal 2006, with earnings of $44.7 million, or $1.37 per diluted
share.  We also generated a record level
of operating cash flow in Fiscal 2006 of $113.3 million due in large part to
aggressive management of inventory and receivable levels.   

   Company Outlook    

  The RV
industry is cyclical and susceptible to slowdowns in the general economy.  RV industry sales have been characterized by
cycles of growth and contraction in consumer demand, reflecting prevailing
economic, demographic and political conditions that affect disposable income
for leisure-time activities.  Some of
the factors that contribute to this cyclicality include fuel availability and
costs, interest rate levels, the level of discretionary spending and
availability of credit and consumer confidence.  An extended continuation of these conditions would materially
adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial
condition.  The motorized portion of the
recreation vehicle industry has experienced a volume decline now for over a
year.  We will continue to adjust our
factory schedule as necessary to reflect the demand for our products.  Should fuel prices remain lower than the
record levels seen in the summer of 2006, interest rates continue to remain
stable or decline and RV consumer sentiment begin to rise, the motor home
market may improve next spring.   

  Order backlog
for our motor homes was as follows:   

We include in
our backlog all accepted purchase orders from dealers shippable within the next
six months.  Orders in backlog can be
canceled or postponed at the option of the purchaser at any time without
penalty and, therefore, backlog may not necessarily be an accurate measure of
future sales.     

  Long-term demographics
are favorable for us as our target market of consumers age 50 and older is
expected to substantially increase over the next 30 years due to the aging of
the baby boom market.  Also, according
to a 2005 study conducted by the University of Michigan, the age at which the
motor home consumer is purchasing motor homes has broadened.  Motor home buyers are entering the market
earlier that in the past, as young as 35, and living active and healthier lives
with more buyers remaining in the RV lifestyle over the age of 75.  The study also indicates that owners are now
using their motor homes for more than just traditional camping, having a
positive impact on long-term motor home market growth.  The study shows that motor homes are used to
pursue consumers  many lifestyle passions which may include riding their ATVs
in the desert or going to motor sports events or tailgating at sporting
events.    

   Critical Accounting Estimates    

  Our
consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
In connection with the preparation of our financial statements, we are
required to make assumptions and estimates about future events and apply
judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue,
expenses and the related disclosures.
We base our assumptions, estimates and judgments on historical
experience, current trends and other factors that we believe to be relevant at
the time our consolidated financial statements are prepared.  On a regular basis, we review the accounting
policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our financial
statements are presented fairly and in accordance with GAAP.  However, because future events and their
effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from
our assumptions and estimates and such differences could be material.   

  Our
significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,  of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, 
of this Annual Report   

  11  

Table of Contents   

on Form
10-K.  We believe that the following
accounting estimates and policies are the most critical to aid in fully
understanding and evaluating our reported financial results and they require
our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, resulting from the need to
make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.  We have reviewed these critical accounting
estimates and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of our Board.   

   Revenue Recognition. 
Generally, revenues for motor homes are recorded when all of the following
conditions are met:  an order for a
product has been received from a dealer, written or verbal approval for payment
has been received from the dealer s floorplan financing institution, and the
product is delivered to the dealer who placed the order.  Most sales are financed under floorplan
financing arrangements with banks or finance companies.   

  Revenues from
the sales of our OEM and motor home related parts are recorded as the products
are shipped from our location.  The
title of ownership transfers on these products as they leave our location due
to the freight terms of F.O.B. - Forest City, Iowa.    

   Postretirement Benefits Obligations and
Costs.   We
provide certain health care and other benefits for retired employees, hired
before April 1, 2001, who have fulfilled eligibility requirements at age 55
with 15 years of continuous service.
Postretirement benefit liabilities are determined by actuaries using
assumptions about the discount rate and health care cost-trend rates.  A significant increase or decrease in
interest rates could have a significant impact on our operating results.  Further discussion of our postretirement
benefit plan and related assumptions are included in Note 5.   

   Warranty.   We provide with the purchase of any new
motor home, a comprehensive 12-month/15,000-mile warranty and a
3-year/36,000-mile warranty on sidewalls and floors.  Estimated costs related to product warranty are accrued at the
time of sale and are based upon past warranty claims and unit sales history and
adjusted as required to reflect actual costs incurred, as information becomes
available.  A significant increase in
dealership labor rates, the cost of parts or the frequency of claims could have
a material adverse impact on our operating results for the period or periods in
which such claims or additional costs materialize.  We also incur costs as a result of additional service actions not
covered by our warranties, including product recalls and customer satisfaction
actions.  Estimated costs are accrued at
the time the service action is implemented and are based upon past claim rate
experiences and the estimated cost of the repairs.  Further discussion of our warranty costs and associated accruals
are included in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

   Repurchase Commitments.   Generally, companies in the RV industry
enter into repurchase agreements with lending institutions which have provided
wholesale floorplan financing to dealers.
Our repurchase agreements provide that, in the event of default by the
dealer on the agreement to pay the lending institution, we will repurchase the
financed motor homes.  The agreements
also provide that our liability will not exceed 100 percent of the dealer
invoice and provide for periodic liability reductions based on the time since
the date of the original invoice.  These
repurchase obligations generally expire upon the earlier to occur of (i) the
dealer s sale of the financed unit or (ii) one year from the date of the
original invoice.  Our obligation under
these repurchase agreements are reduced by the proceeds received upon the
resale of any repurchased unit.  The
gross repurchase obligation will vary depending on the season and the level of
dealer inventories.  Past losses under
these agreements have not been significant.
Further discussion of our repurchase obligations is included in Note 6
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

   Stock-Based Compensation.   Historically, we have granted stock options
to our key employees and nonemployee directors as part of their
compensation.  The amount of stock
option compensation expense incurred and to be incurred in future periods is
dependent upon a number of factors, such as the number of options granted, the
timing of incentive stock option exercises and actual forfeiture rates.  We estimate the fair value of all stock
option awards as of the date of grant by applying the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model.  The application
of this valuation model involves assumptions, some of which are judgmental and
highly sensitive, in the determination of stock option compensation expense.  These assumptions include our expected stock
price volatility and the expected life of our stock options, which are based
primarily on our historical experience.
The fair value of each option is amortized into compensation expense on
a straight-line basis over the requisite service period or to an employee s
eligible retirement date, if earlier.
This is because our options typically vest over three years or upon
retirement if earlier; thus, options are expensed immediately upon grant for
retirement eligible employees which results in relatively higher expense in the
period of grant (typically our first fiscal quarter) and relatively less
expense in the remaining quarters in a fiscal year.  (See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements)   

   Other.   We have reserves for other loss exposures,
such as litigation, taxes, product liability, worker s compensation, employee
medical claims, inventory and accounts receivable.  We also have loss exposure on loan guarantees.  Establishing loss reserves for
these matters
requires the use of estimates and judgment in regards to risk exposure and
ultimate liability.  We estimate losses
under the programs using consistent and appropriate methods; however, changes
in assumptions could materially affect our recorded liabilities for loss.   

  12  

Table of Contents   

Results of Operations    

   Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005    

  The following
is an analysis of changes in key items included in the consolidated statements
of income for the year ended August 26, 2006 compared to the year ended August
27, 2005.   

Unit
deliveries consisted of the following:   

Net revenues
for the year ended August 26, 2006 decreased $127.6 million, or 12.9 percent,
primarily as a result of a 7.5 percent decrease in unit deliveries.  Net revenues declined at a higher rate than
deliveries due to a shift in product mix weighted more heavily towards
lower-priced products, particularly Class C motor homes, which resulted in a
7.7 percent decrease in our average selling price of motor homes during the
fiscal year.  The increase in Class C
unit deliveries of 36.0 percent in Fiscal 2006 was primarily due to the
popularity of new product offerings, such as the Winnebago View and Itasca
Navion Class C diesels.  In contrast,
the overall market for Class C motor homes decreased 6.2 percent for the eight
months ended August 31, 2006 according to statistics published by RVIA.   

  Gross profit
margin decreased from 13.8 percent during Fiscal 2005 to 12.1 percent during
Fiscal 2006.  The deterioration in
margin was primarily due to the change in our mix to lower-priced products with
lower margins and higher fixed costs per unit of production resulting from
lower production volumes.  Also
contributing, to a lesser extent, to the reduced margin was stock option expense
recorded as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123R.  Partially offsetting the decline in gross
profit margin was the liquidation of last-in, first-out (LIFO) inventory values
as a result of a significant reduction of inventory levels during 2006.  (See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements)   

  Selling
expenses decreased $317,000, or 1.6 percent, during fiscal year ended August
26, 2006.  However, as a percent of net
revenues, selling expenses were 2.2 percent during Fiscal 2006 compared to 2.0
percent for Fiscal 2005.  The decrease
in dollars was due primarily to lower advertising expenses offset partially by
the recording of stock option expense as a result of the adoption of SFAS No.
123R.   

  13  

Table of Contents   

General and
administrative expenses increased $3.4 million, or 18.1 percent, during Fiscal
2006.  The increase in expense was due
primarily to the recording of stock option expense and to a lesser extent an
increase in our product liability expense offset partially by a reduction in
management incentive compensation expense.   

  Financial income
increased $2.5 million, or 93.4 percent, during the fiscal year ended August
26, 2006.  The increase in financial
income during Fiscal 2006 was due to a higher average interest rate earned on
investments and a higher average short-term investment balance.   

  The overall
effective income tax rate decreased to 34.4 percent for Fiscal 2006 from 35.5
percent for Fiscal 2005.  The decrease
was primarily a result of the domestic production activities credit of the
American Jobs Creation Act and an increase in tax-free investment income offset
partially by incentive stock option expense not deductible for tax purposes.   

  Net income
decreased by 31.2 percent and income per diluted share decreased by 28.6
percent when comparing Fiscal 2006 to Fiscal 2005.  The smaller percentage decrease in income per diluted share was
due to a lower number of shares of common stock outstanding during the fiscal
year ended August 26, 2006, as a result of shares of common stock repurchased
by the Company.  (See Note 11 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements)   

   Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004    

  The following
is an analysis of changes in key items included in the consolidated statements
of income for the year ended August 27, 2005 compared to the year ended August
28, 2004.   

Unit
deliveries consisted of the following:   

Net revenues
decreased $122.2 million or 11.0 percent during the fiscal year ended August
27, 2005, while unit deliveries decreased 15.0 percent.  The percentage decrease in net revenues was
less than the percentage decrease in unit deliveries due to an increase in the
average sales price per unit when comparing the two fiscal years.  In Fiscal 2005, the decrease in deliveries,
especially in Class A motor homes which are higher priced, was a result of
lower consumer confidence caused primarily by increases in fuel costs.   

  14  

Table of Contents   

Gross profit
as a percentage of net revenue decreased 0.8 percent from Fiscal 2004 to Fiscal
2005. The gross profit percentage of 13.8 percent for Fiscal 2005 was
unfavorably impacted by a decrease in production volume which increased fixed
costs per unit of production and resulted in a decline in manufacturing
efficiencies. Partially offsetting this decrease was a reduction in net
postretirement health care benefit expense of $6.0 million due to a plan
amendment made at the beginning of the fiscal year which established maximum
employer contributions to be paid in Fiscal 2005 and subsequent years.   

  Selling
expenses decreased 4.0 percent or $828,000 from Fiscal 2004 to Fiscal 2005. The
decrease was primarily a result of a reduction in incentive compensation to our
field sales force and a reduction in net postretirement health care benefit
expense.   

  General and
administrative expenses decreased 38.6 percent or $11.8 million from Fiscal
2004 to Fiscal 2005. The decrease was primarily a result of a $7.3 million charge
that was recorded in Fiscal 2004 in connection with a lawsuit settlement
relating to deferred compensation and in Fiscal 2005, a reduction of
approximately $4.2 million in management incentive compensation costs and a
reduction in net postretirement health care benefit expense.   

  Financial
income increased 83.5 percent when comparing Fiscal 2005 ($2.6 million) to
Fiscal 2004 ($1.4 million). The increase in financial income when comparing the
two periods was due primarily to a higher average rate of return and more cash
available for investing during the year ended August 27, 2005.   

  The overall
effective income tax rate decreased to 35.5 percent for Fiscal 2005 from 37.1
percent for Fiscal 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the elimination of
nondeductible losses in Winnebago Health Care Management Company, a subsidiary
of the Company.   

  Net income and
earnings per diluted share decreased by 7.9 and 5.4 percent, respectively, when
comparing the year ended August 27, 2005 to the year ended August 28, 2004. The
difference in percentages was primarily due to a lower number of outstanding
shares of the Company s common stock during the fiscal year ended August 27,
2005 as a result of the repurchases of approximately 860,000 shares of the
Company s common stock.   

   Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity
and Resources    

  In recent
fiscal years, we have generated substantial cash from operations, which has
enabled us to meet our working capital needs and make appropriate investments
in manufacturing equipment and facilities, as well as pay increased cash
dividends and repurchase stock. Cash and cash equivalents totaled $24.9 million
and $19.5 million as of August 26, 2006 and August 27, 2005, respectively.
Short-term investments consisting primarily of highly liquid investments
totaled $130.0 million and $93.1 million as of August 26, 2006 and August 27,
2005, respectively. Working capital at August 26, 2006 and August 27, 2005 was
$187.0 million and $197.5 million, respectively, a decrease of $10.5 million. We
have no long-term debt. We currently expect our cash on hand and funds from
operations to be sufficient to cover both short- and long-term operation
requirements.   

   Operating Activities    

  Cash provided
by operating activities was $113.3 million in Fiscal 2006, or $34.5 million
higher when compared to Fiscal 2005. The increase in net cash provided by
operating activities was primarily attributable to a significant decrease in
our finished goods and work-in-process inventories and a significant decrease
in our accounts receivables year end balance which was partially offset by a
decrease in net income.   

   Investing Activities    

  Uses of cash
for investing activities were for manufacturing equipment and facilities
purchases of $4.8 million for the fiscal year ended August 26, 2006, compared
to $9.7 million during the fiscal year ended August 27, 2005. We purchased
$214.8 million of short-term investments and received proceeds of $178.0
million from the sale or maturity of short-term investments during the fiscal
year ended August 26, 2006. During the fiscal year ended August 27, 2005, we
purchased $255.0 million of short-term investments and received proceeds of
$213.0 million from the sale or maturity of short-term investments.   

  15  

Table of Contents   

Financing Activities    

  Primary uses
of cash in financing activities for the fiscal year ended August 26, 2006 were
$57.8 million for the repurchases of our common stock and payments of $11.7
million in dividends. Primary uses of cash in financing activities for the
fiscal year ended August 27, 2005 were $26.8 million for the repurchase of our
common stock and $9.4 million for the payment of dividends. (See Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows)   

   Anticipated Use of Funds    

  Repurchases of
up to $22.2 million of our outstanding shares of common stock remain available
under the April 12, 2006 Board of Directors authorization.   

  Estimated uses
at August 26, 2006 of our liquid assets for Fiscal 2007 include $12.5 million
for payments of cash dividends. Additionally, spending for capital expenditures,
primarily for manufacturing equipment and facilities, is expected to be similar
to the level of Fiscal 2006.   

  On October 11,
2006, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per
common share payable January 8, 2007 to shareholders of record as of December
8, 2006.   

   Contractual Obligations And Commercial
Commitments    

  Our principal
contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of August 26, 2006 were
as follows:   

(1)  

See Note 6
  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

(2)  

Payments by
  period cannot be determined as the participating individual may elect to
  exercise part or all of an option at their discretion.  

(3)  

See Note 5
  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

New
Accounting Pronouncements   

  See Note 1.   

   Impact of Inflation    

Historically,
the impact of inflation on our operations has not been significantly
detrimental, as we have usually been able to adjust our prices to reflect the
inflationary impact on the cost of manufacturing our product. In recent months,
the costs of a number of raw materials and component parts utilized in
manufacturing our motor homes have increased. While we have been able to pass
on these increases historically, in the event we are unable to continue to do
so, future increases in manufacturing costs could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations.   

     ITEM 7A. 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

  As of August 26, 2006, we have
an investment portfolio of cash and cash equivalents of $24.9 million and
available-for-sale securities of $130.0 million. Taking into account the credit
risk criteria of our investment policy, the primary market risk associated with
these investments is interest rate risk and a decline in value if market
interest rates increase. However, we have the ability to hold our fixed income
investments until maturity or for the typical Dutch auction period (an average
of 73 days) and based upon historical experience, we do not believe there are
significant risks of a failed Dutch auction. Therefore, we would not expect to
recognize a material adverse impact in income or cash flows in the event of a
decline in value due to an increase in market interest rates.   

16  

Table of Contents   

ITEM 8.  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data   

   Index to Financial Statements   

17  

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER
FINANCIAL REPORTING    

  Management of
Winnebago Industries, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the  Company ) is responsible
for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting and for the assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting. The Company s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.   

  The Company s
internal control over financial reporting is supported by written policies and
procedures that:   

(1) pertain
  to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and
  fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the Company s assets;   

(2) provide
  reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
  preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally
  accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
  Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of the
  Company s management and directors; and   

(3) provide
  reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
  acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a
  material effect on the consolidated financial statements.   

In addition,
the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, consisting solely of independent
directors, meets periodically with management, the internal auditors and the
independent registered public accounting firm to review internal accounting
controls, audit results and accounting principles and practices and annually
recommends to the Board of Directors the selection of the independent
registered public accounting firm.   

  Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

  In connection
with the preparation of the Company s annual consolidated financial statements,
management of the Company has undertaken an assessment of the effectiveness of
the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on criteria established
in  Internal Control Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO). Management s assessment included an evaluation of the design of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting and testing of the
operational effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting.   

  Based on this
assessment, management has concluded that the Company s internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of August 26, 2006.   

  Deloitte  
Touche LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the
Company s consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, has issued an unqualified attestation report included herein, on
management s assessment of internal control over financial reporting.   

/s/ Bruce D.
  Hertzke  

/s/ Sarah N.
  Nielsen  

Bruce D.
  Hertzke  

Sarah N.
  Nielsen  

Chairman of
  the Board and  

Vice
  President,  

Chief
  Executive Officer  

Chief
  Financial Officer  

November 9, 2006  

  18  

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM    

  To the Board
of Directors and Shareholders  
Winnebago Industries, Inc.  
Forest City, Iowa   

  We have
audited management s assessment, included in the accompanying Management s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Winnebago Industries,
Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) maintained effective internal control
over financial reporting as of August 26, 2006, based on criteria established
in  Internal Control Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(the COSO framework). The Company s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on management s assessment and an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit.   

  We conducted
our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.   

  A company s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under
the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial
officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the
company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.   

  Because of the
inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including
the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls,
material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected
on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the
internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the
risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.   

  In our opinion,
management s assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control
over financial reporting as of August 26, 2006, is fairly stated, in all
material respects, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control  Integrated   Framework  issued by the
Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Also in our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of August 26, 2006, based on the criteria established in
 Internal Control  Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We have also
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the
year ended August 26, 2006, of the Company and our report dated November 9,
2006, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.   

/s/ Deloitte
    Touche LLP  

Deloitte
    Touche LLP   

Minneapolis,
  Minnesota   

November 9,
2006   

  19  

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM    

  To the Board
of Directors and Shareholders  
Winnebago Industries, Inc.  
Forest City, Iowa   

  We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Winnebago Industries,
Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of August 26, 2006 and August 27,
2005, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders  equity,
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended August 26, 2006.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.   

  We conducted
our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements referred to above. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

  In our
opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of the Company at August 26, 2006 and August
27, 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended August 26, 2006, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.   

  As discussed
in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its
method of accounting for share-based payments to conform to Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R in the quarter ended November 26, 2005.

We have also
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting as of August 26, 2006, based on the criteria
established in  Internal Control Integrated
Framework , issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission, and our report dated November 9, 2006, expressed an
unqualified opinion on management s assessment of the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion
on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting.   

/s/ Deloitte
    Touche LLP   

Deloitte
    Touche LLP   

Minneapolis,
  Minnesota   

November 9,
2006   

  20  

Table of Contents   

Winnebago Industries, Inc. 
  Consolidated Statements of Income    

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  21  

Table of Contents   

Winnebago Industries, Inc. 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets    

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  22  

Table of Contents   

Winnebago Industries, Inc.  
  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders  Equity    

See notes to consolidated financial statements.    

23  

Table of Contents   

Winnebago Industries, Inc.  
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    

See notes to consolidated financial statements.    

  24  

Table of Contents   

Winnebago
Industries, Inc.  
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

   Note 1:
Nature of Business and Significant Accounting Policies    

  We are a leading U.S. manufacturer of motor homes,
self-contained RVs used primarily in leisure travel and outdoor recreation
activities. The RV market is highly competitive, both as to price and quality
of the product. We believe our principal competitive advantages are our brand
name recognition, the quality of our products and our warranty and service
capability. We also believe that our prices are competitive with the
competitions  units of comparable size and quality.   

   Principles
of Consolidation    

  The consolidated financial statements include the
parent company and subsidiary companies. All material intercompany balances and
transactions with subsidiaries have been eliminated.   

   Fiscal
Period    

  We follow a 52/53-week fiscal year period. The
financial statements presented are all 52-week periods.   

   Use of
Estimates    

  The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.   

   Cash and
Cash Equivalents    

  Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of highly
liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less. The
carrying amount approximates fair value due to the short maturity of the
investments.   

   Fair
Value Disclosures of Financial Instruments    

  All financial instruments are carried at amounts
believed to approximate fair value.   

   Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities    

  All contracts that contain provisions meeting the
definition of a derivative also meet the requirements of, and have been
designated as, normal purchases or sales. Our policy is to not enter into
contracts with terms that cannot be designated as normal purchases or sales.   

   Allowance
for Doubtful Accounts    

  The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on
historical loss experience and any specific customer collection issues
identified. Additional amounts are provided through charges to income as we
believe necessary after evaluation of receivables and current economic
conditions. Amounts which are considered to be uncollectible are written off
and recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the allowance
upon recovery.   

   Inventories

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market,
with cost being determined by using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method and
market defined as net realizable value.   

   Property
and Equipment    

  Depreciation of property and equipment is computed
using the straight-line method on the cost of the assets, less allowance for
salvage value where appropriate, at rates based upon their estimated service
lives as follows:   

Asset
  Class   

Asset
  Life   

Buildings  

10-30 yrs.  

Machinery and
  equipment  

3-10 yrs.  

Transportation
  equipment  

3-6 yrs.  

We review our long-lived depreciable assets for
impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable from future cash
flows. As of August 26, 2006 and August 27, 2005, we have determined there were
no impairments.   

  25  

Table of Contents   

Winnebago
Industries, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

   Income
Taxes    

  We account for income taxes under Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109,  Accounting
for Income Taxes.  This Statement requires recognition of deferred
assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that
have been included in the financial statements or tax returns. Under this
method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the
differences between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and
liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the years in which the
differences are expected to reverse.   

   Legal    

  Our accounting policy regarding litigation expense is
to accrue for probable exposure including estimated defense costs if we are
able to estimate the financial impact.   

   Revenue
Recognition    

  Generally, revenues for motor homes are recorded when
all of the following conditions are met: an order for a product has been
received from a dealer, written or verbal approval for payment has been
received from the dealer s floorplan financing institution, and the product is
delivered to the dealer who placed the order. Most sales are financed under
floorplan financing arrangements with banks or finance companies.  

  Revenues of
our OEM components and motor home related parts are recorded as the products
are shipped from our location. The title of ownership transfers on these
products as they leave our location due to the freight terms of F.O.B. - Forest
City, Iowa.   

   Sales
Promotions and Incentives    

  We accrue for estimated sales promotions and incentive
expenses, which are recognized as a reduction to revenues, at the time of sale
to the dealer or when the sales incentive is offered. Examples of sales
promotion and incentive programs include dealer and consumer rebates, volume
discounts, retail financing programs and sales associate incentives. Sales
promotion and incentive expenses are estimated based on current programs and
historical rates.   

   Shipping
Revenues and Expenses    

  Shipping revenues for products shipped are included
within sales, while shipping expenses are included within cost of goods sold.   

   Research
and Development    

  Research and development expenditures are expensed as
incurred. Development activities generally relate to creating new products and
improving or creating variations of existing products to meet new applications.
During Fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, we spent approximately $3.9 million, $3.6
million and $3.7 million, respectively, on research and development activities.

Income
Per Common Share    

  Basic income per common share is computed by dividing
net income by the weighted average common shares outstanding during the period.  

  Diluted income per common share is computed by dividing net income by the
weighted average common shares outstanding plus the incremental shares that
would have been outstanding upon the assumed exercise of dilutive stock
options. (See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements)   

   Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year
information on the financial statement and footnotes to conform to the current
year presentation.   

   New
Accounting Pronouncements    

  In December 2004, the FASB staff issued FASB Staff
Position FSP FASB 109-1 that provides guidance on the application of FASB
Statement No. 109,  Accounting for Income
Taxes,  to the provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of
2004 that provides a tax deduction on qualified production activities and was
effective upon issuance. This FSP affected our financial position and results
of operations by reducing our effective tax rate by approximately one
percentage point for Fiscal 2006.  

  SFAS 109 has been amended by FIN 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. 
The amendment establishes a consistent threshold for recognizing current and
deferred income taxes and results in increased comparability in how   

  26  

Table of Contents   

Winnebago
Industries, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

  companies report income tax assets and liabilities.
The effective date of FIN 48 is for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2006. We are currently evaluating the impact of this pronouncement on our
future consolidated financial statements.   

  In September 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements.  This statement
provides a definition of fair value and a consistent basis by which to measure fair
value. The statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2007 and for interim periods within those fiscal years. We are currently
evaluating the impact of this pronouncement on our future consolidated
financial statements.   

   Stock-Based
Compensation    

  Effective August 28, 2005, we adopted SFAS No. 123
(revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment 
(123R), requiring us to recognize expense related to the fair value of our
stock-based compensation awards. We elected the modified prospective transition
method as permitted by SFAS No. 123R; accordingly, results from prior periods
have not been restated. (See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements)   

  The table below illustrates the effect on net earnings
and earnings per share as if we had applied the fair value recognition
provisions of SFAS No. 123 to stock-based compensation during Fiscal 2005 and
Fiscal 2004.   

Note 2:
Short-Term Investments - Available-for-Sale Securities    

  We had approximately $130.0 million and $93.1 million
in short-term investments as of August 26, 2006 and August 27, 2005,
respectively. Our short-term investments consist of auction rate preferred
securities, variable rate auction preferred stock and other investment-grade
marketable debt securities. These investments, a portion which have stated
maturities beyond one year, may be classified as short-term based on their
highly liquid nature and because these securities represent the investment of cash
that is available for current operations. Our short-term investments are
classified as available-for-sale securities due to our intent regarding these
securities. As of August 26, 2006 and August 27, 2005, there were no unrealized
gains or losses associated with these investments.   

   Note 3:
Inventories    

  Inventories consist of the following:   

The above value of inventories, before reduction for
the LIFO reserve, approximates replacement cost at the respective dates.   

  27  

Table of Contents   

Winnebago
Industries, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

  During Fiscal 2006, inventory quantities were reduced.
This reduction resulted in a liquidation of LIFO inventory values, the effect
of which decreased cost of goods sold by $4.0 million and increased net income
by $2.6 million or $0.08 per share.   

   Note 4:
Warranty    

  We provide our motor home customers a comprehensive
12-month/15,000-mile warranty on the coach, and a 3-year/36,000-mile warranty
on sidewalls and floors. We record a liability based on our estimate of the
amounts necessary to settle future and existing claims on products sold as of
the balance sheet date. Changes in our product warranty liability during Fiscal
2006 and Fiscal 2005 are as follows:   

In addition to the costs associated with the
contractual warranty coverage provided on our motor homes, we also occasionally
incur costs as a result of additional service actions not covered by our
warranties, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions. We
estimate the cost of these service actions using past claim rate experiences
and the estimated cost of the repairs. Estimated costs are accrued at the time
the service action is implemented and included in cost of sales in our
Consolidated Statements of Income and as other accrued expenses in our
Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

  Changes in our reserve for customer service actions
during Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005 are as follows:   

Note 5:
Employee and Retiree Benefits    

  Long-term postretirement health care and deferred
compensation benefits are as follows:   

28  

Table of Contents   

Winnebago Industries, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

Postretirement Health Care Benefits     

  We provide certain health care and other benefits for
retired employees hired before April 1, 2001, who have fulfilled eligibility
requirements at age 55 with 15 years of continuous service. Retirees are
required to pay a monthly premium for medical coverage based on years of
service at retirement and then current age. Our postretirement health care plan
currently is not funded. We use a September 1 measurement date for this plan.
The status of the plan is as follows:   

Effective September 2004, we amended our
postretirement health care benefit by establishing a maximum employer
contribution amount which resulted in a $40.4 million reduction of the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. This amendment significantly
reduced the net postretirement health care expense in Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal
2005.   

  The discount rate used in determining the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation was 6.0 percent at August 26, 2006 and 5.5
percent at August 27, 2005. The average assumed health care cost trend rate
used in measuring the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations as of
August 26, 2006 was 8.5 percent, decreasing each successive year until it
reaches 4.5 percent in 2015 after which it remains constant.   

  Net periodic postretirement benefit (income) expense
for the past three fiscal years consisted of the following components:   

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a
significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. A one
percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the
following effects:   

(In thousands)   

One 
  Percentage 
  Point 
  Increase   

One 
  Percentage 
  Point 
  Decrease   

Effect on total of service and interest cost
  components  

$  

16  

$  

(19  

)  

Effect on postretirement benefit obligation  

$  

268  

$  

(321  

)  

29  

Table of Contents   

Winnebago
Industries, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

  Expected future benefit payments for postretirement
health care for the next ten years are as follows:   

The expected benefits have been estimated based on the
same assumptions used to measure our benefit obligation as of August 26, 2006
and include benefits attached to estimated future employees  services.   

   Deferred
Compensation Benefits    

    Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Program     

  We have a Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Program
which permitted key employees to annually elect (via individual contracts) to
defer a portion of their compensation until their retirement. The plan has been
closed to any additional deferrals since January 2001. The retirement benefit
to be provided is based upon the amount of compensation deferred and the age of
the individual at the time of the contracted deferral. An individual generally
vests at the later of age 55 and five years of service since the deferral was
made. For deferrals prior to December 1992, vesting occurs at the later of age
55 and five years of service from first deferral or 20 years of service.
Deferred compensation expense was $1.5 million, $1.5 million and $7.7 million
in Fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Total deferred compensation
liabilities were $26.6 million and $27.0 million at August 26, 2006 and August
27, 2005, respectively.   

  To assist in funding the deferred compensation
liability, we have invested in corporate-owned life insurance policies. The
cash surrender value of these policies are presented as investment in life
insurance in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and consist of the
following components:   

Non-Qualified Share Option Program     

  In addition, we have a Non-Qualified Share Option
Program which permitted participants in the Executive Share Option Plan (the
 Executive Plan ) to choose to exchange a portion of their salary or other
eligible compensation for options on selected securities, primarily
equity-based mutual funds. These assets are treated as trading securities and
are recorded at fair value. The Executive Plan has been closed to any
additional deferrals since January 2005. Total Executive Plan assets are
included in other assets and total Executive Plan liabilities are included in
postretirement health care and deferred compensation benefits in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Such assets on August 26, 2006 and
August 27, 2005 were $13.3 million and $12.6 million, respectively, and the
liabilities were $10.7 million and $9.9 million, respectively. The difference
between the asset and liability balances represents the additional 25 percent
the Company contributed at the time of the initial deferrals to aid in
potential additional earnings to the participant. This contribution is required
to be paid back to the Company when the option is exercised.   

    Profit Sharing Plan     

  We have a qualified profit sharing and contributory
401(k) plan for eligible employees. The plan provides for quarterly
discretionary cash contributions as approved by our Board of Directors.
Contributions to the plan for Fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $2.6 million,
$3.4 million and $3.2 million, respectively.   

   Note 6:
Contingent Liabilities and Commitments    

   Repurchase
Commitments    

  Generally, companies in the RV industry enter into
repurchase agreements with lending institutions which have provided wholesale
floorplan financing to dealers. Most dealers  motor homes are financed on a
 floorplan  basis under which a bank or finance company lends the dealer all,
or substantially all, of the purchase price, collateralized by a security
interest in the motor homes purchased.   

  30  

Table of Contents   

Winnebago
Industries, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

  Our repurchase agreements provide that, in the event
of default by the dealer on the agreement to pay the lending institution, we
will repurchase the financed merchandise. The agreements provide that our
liability will not exceed 100 percent of the dealer invoice and provide for
periodic liability reductions based on the time since the date of the original
invoice. These repurchase obligations expire upon the earlier to occur of (i)
the dealer s sale of the financed unit or (ii) one year from the date of the
original invoice. Our contingent obligations under these repurchase agreements
are reduced by the proceeds received upon the resale of any repurchased unit.
Our contingent liability on these repurchase agreements was approximately
$278.6 million and $345.2 million at August 26, 2006 and August 27, 2005,
respectively. We have incurred no losses under these repurchase agreements
during the three fiscal years presented and as a result, repurchase reserves
under our repurchase agreements at August 26, 2006 and August 27, 2005 were not
significant.   

  Our reserve methodology is used to record an estimated
expense and loss reserve in each accounting period based upon our extensive
history and experience under these repurchase agreements with the lenders to
our dealers. As of August 26, 2006, historical data on our repurchase
agreements show that less than .05% of the outstanding contingent repurchase
liability will potentially be repurchased and the estimated loss reserve of
approximately 3 percent of such repurchase was established as loss history of
these potential repurchased products. Upon resale of the repurchased units, we
do not record the transaction as revenue. The difference between the repurchase
price and the net proceeds received from reselling the units is charged against
our reserve for losses on repurchases.   

   Guarantees
For Suppliers    

  During the second quarter of Fiscal 2002, we entered
into a five-year service agreement (the  Agreement ) with an unaffiliated
third-party paint Supplier (the  Supplier ) and the Forest City Economic
Development, Inc., (FCED) an Iowa nonprofit corporation, requiring the Supplier
to provide RV paint services to the Company. Three of our officers have board
seats on the 20-member FCED board. The FCED constructed and debt financed a
paint facility on its land adjoining our Forest City manufacturing plant for
the Supplier and the Supplier leases the land and facility from the FCED under
a lease that expires in August 2012. In the event of termination of the
Agreement by any of the parties involved before September 1, 2007, the rights
and obligations of the Supplier under the lease would be transferred to us. As
of August 26, 2006, the Supplier is current with its lease payment obligations
to the FCED with approximately $3.0 million remaining to be paid through August
2012. Under the terms of the Agreement in the event of a default by the
Supplier, we would be obligated to purchase from the Supplier approximately
$1.3 million of equipment installed in the paint facility at net book value of
$448,000, as of August 26, 2006, and we would be obligated to assume payment
obligations for approximately $10,000 in capital equipment leases remaining to
be paid at August 26, 2006. In the first quarter of Fiscal 2004, we guaranteed
$2,925,000 bank debt and as part of this transaction executed a guarantee of
$500,000 with us pledging a $500,000 certificate of deposit (CD) to the bank.
The term of the guarantee coincided with the payment of the first $500,000 of
lease obligations of the Supplier, which was paid in February of 2006. As a
result of the guarantee, we recorded a $500,000 liability in the first quarter
of Fiscal 2004 which was amortized to $0 in Fiscal 2006. The CD has been
released and deposited in our corporate funds subsequent to year end.   

  During the second quarter of Fiscal 2004, we entered
into a five-year limited guarantee agreement ( Guarantee Agreement ) with a
leasing corporation ( Landlord ) and the previously discussed Supplier. The
Landlord constructed a paint facility through debt financing on land adjoining
our Charles City manufacturing plant for the Supplier. The Landlord and the
Supplier have signed a ten-year lease agreement which commenced on August 1,
2004. The Guarantee Agreement states that we will guarantee the first 60
monthly lease payments (totaling approximately $1.6 million of which $831,000
was remaining as of August 26, 2006). In the event of rental default before
August 2009 and the Supplier s failure to correct the default, the Landlord
shall give us (Guarantor) written notice of its intent to terminate said lease.
At the time of this notification, we have various options that we must exercise
in a timely manner. One alternative is to exercise an option to purchase the
real estate with improvements from the Landlord. The price we would pay would
be the outstanding loan owed by the Landlord to construct the paint facility,
which was approximately $1.8 million as of August 26, 2006. As of August 26,
2006, the Supplier is current with its lease payment obligations to the
Landlord. In August 2004, approximately $315,000 was recorded by us as the
estimated fair value for the guarantee. As of August 26, 2006, the balance of
the guarantee was approximately $182,000 and presented as other accrued
liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.   

   Self-Insured
Product Liability    

  We self-insure for a portion of product liability
claims. Self-insurance retention liability varies annually based on market
conditions and for the past five fiscal years was at $2.5 million per
occurrence and $6.0 million in aggregate per policy year.   

  31  

Table of Contents   

Winnebago Industries, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

  In the event that the annual
aggregate of the self-insured retention is exhausted by payment of claims and
defense expenses, a deductible of $250,000, excluding defense expenses, is
applicable to each claim covered under this policy.  Our product liability accrual is included within accrued
self-insurance on our consolidated balance sheet along with other types of
self-insured liabilities, such as worker s compensation and employee medical
claims.   

   Litigation    

  We are involved in various
legal proceedings which are ordinary routine litigation incidents to our
business, some of which are covered in whole or in part by insurance.  While it is impossible to estimate with certainty
the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to this litigation, we
are of the opinion that while the final resolution of any such litigation may
have an impact on our consolidated results for a particular reporting period,
the ultimate disposition of such litigation will not have any material adverse
effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.   

   Lease Commitments    

  We lease certain facilities
and equipment under operating leases.
Lease expense was $318,000 for Fiscal 2006, $573,000 for Fiscal 2005 and
$609,000 for Fiscal 2004.  Minimum
future lease commitments under noncancelable lease agreements in excess of one
year as of August 27, 2005 are as follows (in thousands):   

Note 7: Income Taxes    

  The components of the
provision for income taxes are as follows:   

The following is a
reconciliation of the U.S. statutory tax rate to the effective income tax rates
(benefit) provided:   

Our income tax returns, like
those of most companies, are periodically audited by domestic tax
authorities.  These audits include
questions regarding our tax filing positions, including the timing and amount
of deductions and the allocation of   

  32  

Table of Contents   

   Winnebago Industries, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

  income among various tax
jurisdictions.  At any one time,
multiple tax years are subject to audit by the various tax authorities.  In evaluating the exposures associated with
our various tax filing positions, we record reserves for probable
exposures.  A number of years may elapse
before a particular matter, for which we have established a reserve, is audited
and fully resolved or clarified.  We
adjust our reserve for probable tax exposures and income tax provision in the
period in which actual results of a settlement with tax authorities differs
from our established reserve, the statute of limitations expires for the
relevant taxing authority to examine the tax position or when more information
becomes available.  We include our reserve
for probable tax exposures, including accrued penalties and interest, in
accrued income taxes on our consolidated balance sheets and in income tax
expense in our consolidated statements of income.    

  Significant items comprising
our net deferred tax assets are as follows:   

Note 8:  Financial
Income and Expense    

  The following is a
reconciliation of financial income (expense):   

Note 9:  Stock-Based
Compensation Plans    

  We have a 2004 Incentive
Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) in place which allows us to grant stock options
and other equity compensation to key employees.  To date, we have only granted options under the Plan.  The Plan also allows us to provide equity
compensation to our nonemployee directors.
The grant price of an option under the Plan is determined by the mean of
the high and low prices of our common stock on the date of grant and the term
of any options granted under the Plan may not exceed 10 years from the date of
the grant.  Options issued to key
employees generally vest over a three-year period in equal annual installments
with immediate vesting upon retirement or upon a change of control (as defined
in the Plan), if earlier.  Historically,
options issued to directors vested six months after grant.  However, options issued to directors in
Fiscal   

  33  

Table of Contents   

   Winnebago Industries, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

  2006 vest one year after
grant.  No more than 4,000,000 shares of
common stock may be issued under the Plan and no more than 2,000,000 of those
shares may be used for awards other than stock options or stock appreciation
rights.  (Adjusted for the 2-for-1 stock
split on March 5, 2004.)  Shares subject
to awards that are forfeited, terminated, expire unexercised, settled in cash,
exchanged for other awards, tendered to satisfy the purchase price of an award,
withheld to satisfy tax obligations or otherwise lapse again become available
for awards.  The Plan replaced the 1997
Stock Option Plan.  Any stock options
previously granted under the 1997 Stock Option Plan shall continue to vest
and/or be exercisable in accordance with their original terms and conditions.  

  Prior to August 28, 2005, we
applied Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ,
and related interpretations in accounting for options.  No stock-based compensation expense for
stock options was recognized in our consolidated statements of income prior to
Fiscal 2006, as the exercise price of all options granted was not less than 100
percent of fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant.     

  Effective August 28, 2005, we adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  (123R), requiring us
to recognize expense related to the fair value of our stock-based compensation
awards.  We elected the modified
prospective transition method as permitted by SFAS No. 123R; accordingly,
results from prior periods have not been restated.     

  Under this transition
method, stock-based compensation expense for the fiscal year ended August 26,
2006 includes:  

(a)  

compensation expense for
  all stock-based compensation awards granted prior to August 27, 2005, but not
  yet vested at the date of adoption, based on the grant-date fair value
  estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation ,
  and  

(b)  

compensation expense for
  all stock-based compensation awards granted subsequent to August 27, 2005,
  based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the
  provisions of SFAS No. 123R.  

Historically, for SFAS No.
123 pro forma disclosure on stock-based compensation, we have recognized
compensation expense for stock option awards issued to employees on a
straight-line basis over the vesting period of three years.  This policy differs from the policy required
to be applied to awards granted after the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, which
requires that compensation expense be recognized for awards over the requisite
service period of the award or to an employee s eligible retirement date, if
earlier.  We will continue to recognize
compensation expense over the three-year vesting periods for awards granted
prior to adoption of SFAS No. 123R, but for all awards granted after August 27,
2005, compensation expense will be recognized over the requisite service period
of the award or over a period ending with an employee s eligible retirement
date, if earlier.  Total stock option
expense included in our statements of income for the fiscal year ended  August 26, 2006, August 27, 2005 and August
28, 2004, was $4.6 million ($3.8 million net of tax or 12 cents per diluted
share), $-0- and $-0-, respectively.  Of
the $4.6 million option expense included in our statements of income for the
fiscal year ended August 26, 2006, $2.5 million relates to awards granted prior
to Fiscal 2006 which continued to be expensed over the three-year vesting
period.     

  Prior to the adoption of
SFAS No. 123R, we reported all tax benefits resulting from the exercise of
stock options as operating cash flows in our consolidated statements of cash
flows.  In accordance with SFAS No. 123R,
for the fiscal year ended August 26, 2006, the presentation of our statement of
cash flows has changed from prior periods to report the excess tax benefits
from the exercise of stock options as financing cash flows.  For the fiscal year ended August 26, 2006,
$501,000 of excess tax benefits were reported as financing cash flows rather
than operating cash flows.  

  A summary of stock option
activity for Fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 is as follows:    

34  

Table of Contents   

   Winnebago
Industries, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

  The fair value of each
option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following assumptions:   

(1)   

Forfeitures are estimated
  based on historical experience.  

(2)   

Risk-free interest rate is
  based on the Treasury Securities constant maturity interest rate whose term
  is consistent with the expected life of our stock options.  

(3)   

Expected stock price
  volatility is based on historical experience.  

(4)   

Expected life of stock
  options is based upon historical experience.   

The weighted average
remaining contractual life for options outstanding and exercisable at August
26, 2006 was 6.87 years and 5.71 years, respectively.  The aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding and
exercisable at August 26, 2006 was $9.0 million and $8.3 million, respectively.  

As of August 26, 2006, there was $2.1 million of unrecognized compensation
expense related to nonvested option awards that is expected to be recognized
over a weighted average period of 1.3 years.    

  Other values related to options
are as follows:   

(1)  

The amount by which the
  sale price of our stock on the date of exercise exceeded the exercise price.   

Note 10:  Net Revenues
Classifications     

  Net revenue by product
class:   

35  

Table of Contents   

Winnebago Industries, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

   Note 11:  Income Per
Share   

  The following table reflects
the calculation of basic and diluted income per share for the past three fiscal
years:    

Note 12:  Preferred
Stock and Shareholders Rights Plan    

  The Board of Directors may
authorize the issuance from time to time of preferred stock in one or more
series with such designations, preferences, qualifications, limitations,
restrictions, and optional or other special rights as the Board may fix by
resolution.  In connection with the
Shareholders Rights Plan (the  Rights Plan ) discussed below, the Board of
Directors has reserved, but not issued, 300,000 shares of preferred stock.  

  In May 2000, we adopted a
Rights Plan providing for a dividend distribution of one preferred share
purchase right for each share of common stock outstanding on and after May 26,
2000.  The rights can be exercised only
if an individual or group acquires or announces a tender offer for 15 percent
or more of our common stock, except as described below.  Certain members of the Hanson family
(including trusts and estates established by such Hanson family members and the
John K. and Luise V. Hanson Foundation) are exempt from the applicability of
the Rights Plan as it relates to the acquisition of 15 percent or more of our
outstanding common stock.  If the rights
first become exercisable as a result of an announced tender offer, each right
would entitle the holder (other than the individual or group acquiring or
announcing a tender offer for 15 percent or more of our common stock), except
as described below, to buy 1/200 of a share of a new series of preferred stock
at an exercise price of $33.625.  The
preferred shares will be entitled to 100 times the per share dividend payable
on our common stock and to 100 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the
shareowners.  Once an individual or
group acquires 15 percent or more of our common stock, each right held by such
individual or group becomes void and the remaining rights will then entitle the
holder to purchase the number of common shares having a market value of twice
the exercise price of the right.  In the
event that we are acquired in a merger or 50 percent or more of our
consolidated assets or earnings power are sold, each right will then entitle
the holder to purchase a number of the acquiring company s common shares having
a market value of twice the exercise price of the right.  After an individual or group acquires 15
percent, except as described below, of our common stock and before they acquire
50 percent, our Board of Directors may exchange the rights in whole or in part,
at an exchange ratio of one share of common stock per right.  Before an individual or group acquires 15
percent of our common stock, the rights are redeemable for $0.01 per right at
the option of our Board of Directors.
Our Board of Directors is authorized to reduce the 15 percent threshold
to no less than 10 percent.  Each right
will expire on May 3, 2010, unless earlier redeemed by us.  An Amendment, dated January 13, 2003, was
made to the Rights Plan to permit FMR Corp., its affiliates and associates
(collectively,  FMR ) and an amendment dated May 17, 2006, was made to the
Rights Plan to permit Royce   Associates, LLC, its Affiliates and
Associates ( Royce ), to be the beneficial owner of up to 20 percent of our
outstanding stock provided that FMR or Royce, in its filings under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, does not state any present
intention to hold shares of our common stock with the purpose or effect of
changing or influencing control of us.
An individual or group that becomes the beneficial owner of 15 percent
or more (20 percent in the case of FMR or Royce) of our common stock as a
result of an acquisition of the common stock by us or the acquisition by such
individual or group of new-issued shares directly from us, such individual s or
group s ownership shall not trigger the issuance of rights under the Rights
Plan unless such individual or group after such share repurchase or direct
issuance by us, becomes the beneficial owner of any additional shares of our
common stock.   

  36  

Table of Contents   

Winnebago Industries, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

   Note 13:  Interim
Financial Information (Unaudited)    

37  

Table of Contents   

ITEM 9.  Changes in
and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

  None   

     ITEM 9A.  Controls
and Procedures   

  As of the end
of the period covered by this report, we, with the participation of our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures, as required by Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
 Exchange Act ) Rule 13a-15(f). Based on this evaluation, the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls
and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified
by the SEC s rules and forms.   

  We, including
the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, do not expect that
our disclosure controls and procedures will prevent all errors or all fraud. A
control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only
reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system
are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there
are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered
relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control
systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all
control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These
inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making
can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally,
controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by
collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The
design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions
about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any
design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future
conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control
system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.   

  We are
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). We conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting based on the framework and criteria established in Internal Control -
Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, our management concluded
that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of August
26, 2006. During our assessment, we did not identify any material weaknesses in
our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered
public accounting firm, Deloitte   Touche LLP, has audited our Consolidated
Financial Statements and has issued an attestation report on management s
assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, as stated in their
report included herein.   

  There have
been no significant changes in our internal controls or in other factors which
could significantly affect internal controls over financial reporting
subsequent to the date we carried out its evaluation.   

  In connection
with the evaluation of internal control over financial reporting described
above, no changes in our internal control over financing reporting were
identified that occurred during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006 that have
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting.   

     ITEM 9B.  Other
Information   

  None   

     PART III   

     ITEM 10.  Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

  Reference is
made to the table entitled  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of
this report and to the information included under the captions  Election of
Directors  and  Board of Directors, Committees of the Board and Corporate
Governance  in our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
scheduled to be held January 9, 2007, which information is incorporated by
reference herein.   

  38  

Table of Contents   

Section 16(a)
of the Exchange Act requires our officers, directors and persons who
beneficially own more than 10 percent of our common stock (collectively
 Reporting Persons ) to file reports of ownership and changes in ownership with
the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) and the New York Stock
Exchange. Reporting Persons are required by the SEC regulations to furnish us
with copies of all Section 16(a) forms they file. Based solely on our review of
the copies of such forms received or written representations from certain
Reporting Persons that no Form 5 were required for those persons, we believe
that, during Fiscal 2006, all the Reporting Persons complied with all
applicable filing requirements, with the exception of Jerry Currie who filed
one late report reporting two transactions.   

  We have
adopted a written code of ethics, the  Code of Ethics for CEO and Senior
Financial Officials  (the  Code ) which is applicable to our Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controller and Treasurer (collectively, the
 Senior Officers ). In accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC, a
copy of the Code has been filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K and is posted
on our Web site.   

  We intend to
disclose any changes in or waivers from the Code applicable to any Senior
Officer on our Web site at  http://www.winnebagoind.com  or by filing a Form 8-K.  

ITEM 11.  Executive
Compensation   

  Reference is
made to the information included under the caption  Executive Compensation  in
our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders scheduled to be held
January 9, 2007, which information is incorporated by reference herein.   

     ITEM 12.  Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters   

  Reference is
made to the share ownership information included under the caption  Voting
Securities and Principal Holders Thereof  in the Company s Proxy Statement for
the Annual Meeting of Shareholders scheduled to be held January 9, 2007, which
information is incorporated by reference herein.   

     ITEM 13.  Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions   

  Reference is
made to the information included under the caption  Certain Transactions with
Management and Business Relationships  in our Proxy Statement for the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders scheduled to be held January 9, 2007, which information
is incorporated by reference herein.   

     ITEM 14.  Principal
Accounting Fees and Services  

  Reference is
made to the information included under the caption  Principal Accounting Fees
and Services  in our Proxy Statement and for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
scheduled to be held January 9, 2007, which information is incorporated by
reference herein.   

     PART IV   

     ITEM 15.  Exhibits ,  Financial Statement Schedules   

(a)  

1.  

Our
  consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in ITEM 8 and
  an index to financial statements appears on page 17 of this report.   

2.  

Consolidated
  Financial Statement Schedules  

Winnebago
  Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries  

All
  schedules are omitted because of the absence of the conditions under which
  they are required or because the information required is shown in the
  consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.   

3.  

Exhibits   

See Exhibit
  Index on pages 42 through 44.   

39  

Table of Contents   

UNDERTAKING   

  For the
purposes of complying with the amendments to the rules governing Form S-8
(effective July 13, 1990) under the Securities Act of 1933, the undersigned
registrant hereby undertakes as follows, which undertaking shall be
incorporated by reference into registrant s Registration Statements on Form S-8
Nos. 33-21757 (which became effective on or about May 9, 1988), 33-59930 (which
became effective on or about March 24, 1993), 333-31595 (which became effective
on or about July 18, 1997), 333-47123 (which became effective on or about
February 27, 1998) and 333-113246 (which became effective on or about March 3,
2004).   

  Insofar as
indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act of 1933 may be
permitted to directors, officers and controlling persons of the registrant
pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or otherwise, the registrant has been
advised that in the opinion of the Securities and Exchange Commission such
indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act of
1933 and is, therefore, unenforceable. In the event that a claim for
indemnification against such liabilities (other than the payment by the
registrant of expenses incurred or paid by a director, officer or controlling
person of the registrant in the successful defense of any action, suit or
proceeding) is asserted by such director, officer or controlling person in
connection with the securities being registered, the registrant will, unless in
the opinion of its counsel the matter has been settled by controlling
precedent, submit to a court of appropriate jurisdiction the question whether
such indemnification by it is against public policy as expressed in the Act and
will be governed by the final adjudication of such issue.   

  40  

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant to
the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

WINNEBAGO
  INDUSTRIES, INC.  

By  

/s/ Bruce D.
  Hertzke  

Bruce D. Hertzke  

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive  

Officer and Director  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

Date: November
9, 2006   

  Pursuant to
the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below on, November 9, 2006, by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities indicated.   

Signature   

Capacity   

/s/ Bruce D.
  Hertzke  

Bruce D.
  Hertzke  

Chairman of
  the Board, Chief Executive  

Officer and
  Director  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/ Sarah N.
  Nielsen  

Sarah N.
  Nielsen  

Vice President,
  Chief Financial Officer  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

/s/ Brian J.
  Hrubes  

Brian J.
  Hrubes  

Controller  

(Principal Accounting Officer)  

/s/ Irvin E.
  Aal  

Irvin E. Aal  

Director  

/s/ Jerry N.
  Currie  

Jerry N. Currie  

Director  

/s/ Joseph
  W. England  

Joseph W.
  England  

Director  

/s/ Lawrence
  A. Erickson  

Lawrence A.
  Erickson  

Director  

/s/ John V.
  Hanson  

John V.
  Hanson  

Director  

/s/ John E.
  Herlitz  

John E.
  Herlitz  

Director  

/s/ Gerald
  C. Kitch  

Gerald C.
  Kitch  

Director  

41  

Table of Contents   

   Exhibit Index   

3a.  

Articles of Incorporation
  previously filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
  quarter ended May 27, 2000 (Commission File Number 1-6403) and incorporated
  by reference herein.  

3b.  

Amended By-Laws of the
  Registrant previously filed with the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for the fiscal year ended August 28, 2004 (Commission File Number 1-6403) and
  incorporated by reference herein.  

4a.  

Continuing Guaranty,
  Commercial Security Agreement, Deposit Account Control Agreement and
  Collateral Receipt all dated October 1, 2003 previously filed with the
  Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 30,
  2003 (Commission File Number 1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.  

4b.  

Limited Guaranty dated
  February 27, 2004 whereas Winnebago Industries, Inc. will act as the
  Guarantor to a certain lease agreement previously filed with the Registrant s
  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2004
  (Commission File Number 1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.  

10a.  

Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  Stock Option Plan for Outside Directors previously filed with the
  Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 29,
  1992 (Commission File Number 1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.*  

10b.  

Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  Deferred Compensation Plan previously filed with the Registrant s Quarterly
  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 2, 1991 (Commission File No.
  1-6403), and incorporated by reference herein and the Amendment dated June
  29, 1995 previously filed with the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for the fiscal year ended August 26, 1995 (Commission File No. 1-6403) and
  incorporated by reference herein.*  

10c.  

Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  Profit Sharing and Deferred Savings Investment Plan previously filed with the
  Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31,
  1985 (Commission File Number 1-6403), and incorporated be reference herein
  and the Amendment dated July 1, 1995 previously filed with the Registrant s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 26, 1995
  (Commission File Number 1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.*  

10d.  

Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  2004 Incentive Compensation Plan previously filed as Appendix B with the
  Registrant s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on
  January 13, 2004 (Commission File Number 1- 6403) and incorporated by
  reference herein.*  

10e.  

Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan previously filed with the Registrant s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 30, 1997
  (Commission File Number 1-6403), and incorporated by reference herein and the
  Amendment dated October 15, 2003 previously filed with the Registrant s
  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 29, 2003
  (Commission File Number 1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.*  

10f.  

Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  1997 Stock Option Plan previously filed with the Registrant s Annual Report
  on Form 10- K for the fiscal year ended August 30, 1997 (Commission File
  Number 1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.*  

10g.  

Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  Executive Share Option Plan previously filed with the Registrant s Annual
  Report on Form10-K for the fiscal year ended August 29, 1998 (Commission File
  Number 1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein, and the Amendment dated
  July 1, 1999 previously filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form
  10-Q for the quarter ended May 29, 1999 (Commission File Number 1-6403) and
  incorporated by reference herein and the Amendment dated January 1, 2001
  previously filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
  quarter ended February 24, 2001 (Commission File No. 1-6403) and incorporated
  by reference herein.*  

10h.  

Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  Rights Plan Agreement previously filed with the Registrant s Current Report
  on Form 8-K dated May 3, 2000 (Commission File Number 1-6403) and
  incorporated by reference herein, the Amendment dated January 13, 2003
  previously filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
  quarter ended March 1, 2003 (Commission File Number 1-6403) and incorporated
  by reference herein and the Amendment dated May 17, 2006 previously filed
  with the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 23, 2006
  (Commission File No. 1- 6403) and incorporated by reference herein.  

10i.  

Executive Change of
  Control Agreement dated January 17, 2001 between Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  and Bruce D. Hertzke previously filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report
  on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 24, 2001 (Commission File Number
  1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.*  

42  

Table of Contents   

  Exhibit Index 
Page Two  

10j.  

Executive Change of
  Control Agreement dated January 17, 2001 between Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  and Edwin F. Barker previously filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report
  on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 24, 2001 (Commission File Number
  1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.*  

10k.  

Executive Change of
  Control Agreement dated January 17, 2001 between Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  and Raymond M. Beebe previously filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report
  on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 24, 2001 (Commission File Number
  1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.*  

10l.  

Executive Change of
  Control Agreement dated January 17, 2001 between Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  and Robert L. Gossett previously filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report
  on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 24, 2001 (Commission File Number
  1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.*  

10m.  

Executive Change of
  Control Agreement dated January 17, 2001 between Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  and Robert J. Olson previously filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report
  on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 24, 2001 (Commission File Number
  1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.*  

10n.  

Executive Change of
  Control Agreement dated July 12, 2001 between Winnebago Industries, Inc. and
  William J. O Leary previously filed with the Registrant s Annual Report on
  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 25, 2001 (Commission Report Number
  1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.*  

10o.  

Executive Change of
  Control Agreement dated November 14, 2005 between Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  and Sarah N. Nielsen previously filed with the Registrant s Current Report on
  Form 8-K dated November 14, 2005 and filed on November 15, 2005 (Commission
  File Number 1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.*  

10p.  

Agreement dated March 13,
  2002 between Winnebago Industries, Inc. and Bruce D. Hertzke filed with the
  Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 2,
  2002 (Commission File Number 1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.*  

10q.  

Executive Change of
  Control Agreement dated March 13, 2003 between Winnebago Industries, Inc. and
  Roger W. Martin previously filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 1, 2003 (Commission Report Number
  1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.*  

10r.  

Two Subordination
  Agreements both dated April 24, 2003 between Winnebago Acceptance Corporation
  and GE Commercial Distribution Finance Corporation previously filed with the
  Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2003
  (Commission File Number 1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.  

10s.  

Compensation terms for
  Bruce D. Hertzke and Edwin F. Barker, effective January 1, 2006, and stock
  option awards made to various officers, previously filed with the
  Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 12, 2005 and filed on October
  17, 2005 (Commission File Number 1-6403) and incorporated by reference
  herein.*  

10t.  

Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  Officers  Long-Term Incentive Plan, fiscal three-year period 2005, 2006 and
  2007 previously filed with the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
  the fiscal year ended August 28, 2004 (Commission File Number 1-6403) and
  incorporated by reference herein.*  

10u.  

Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  Officers  Long-Term Incentive Plan, fiscal three-year period 2006, 2007 and
  2008 previously filed with the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
  August 30, 2005 (Commission File Number 1-6403) and incorporated by reference
  herein.*  

10v.  

Form of Winnebago
  Industries, Inc. Incentive Stock Option Agreement for grants of Incentive
  Stock Options under the 2004 Incentive Compensation Plan previously filed
  with the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 13, 2004
  (Commission File Number 1-6403) and incorporated by reference herein.*  

10w.  

Form of Winnebago
  Industries, Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for grants on
  Non-Qualified Stock Options under the 2004 Incentive Compensation Plan
  previously filed with the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8- K dated
  October 13, 2004 (Commission File Number 1-6403) and incorporated by
  reference herein.*  

10x.  

Winnebago Industries, Inc.
  Officers  Long-Term Incentive Plan, fiscal three-year period 2007, 2008 and
  2009 previously filed with the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
  June 27, 2006 (Commission File Number 1- 6403) and incorporated by reference
  herein.*  

43  

Table of Contents   

44  

ITEM
6. 11-Year Selected Financial Data (1)   

(1)   

Certain
  prior periods  information has been reclassified to conform to the current
  year-end presentation.    

(2)   

The
  fiscal years ended August 31, 2002 and August 31, 1996 contained 53 weeks;
  all other fiscal years contained 52 weeks.    

(3)   

Includes
  a noncash after-tax cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of
  $1.1 million expense or $0.05 per share due to the adoption of SAB No. 101,
  Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements.   

(4)   

Includes discontinued
  operations of Winnebago Acceptance Corporation for all years presented and
  discontinued operations of Cycle-Sat, Inc. for fiscal year ended August 31,
  1996.    

45  

(5)   

ROA -
  Current period net income divided by average total asset balance using
  current ending period and previous ending period.   

(6)   

ROE -
  Current period net income divided by average equity balance using current
  ending period and previous ending period   

(7)   

ROIC -
  Current period net income divided by average invested capital using current
  ending period - total assets minus cash and noninterest liabilities and
  previous ending period - total assets minus cash and noninterest liabilities.   

46  

Shareholder Information   

   Publications    

  A notice of
Annual Meeting of Shareholders and Proxy Statement is furnished to shareholders
in advance of the annual meeting.  

  Copies of our
quarterly financial earnings releases, the annual report on Form 10-K (without
exhibits), the quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (without exhibits) and current
reports on Form 8-K (without exhibits) as filed by us with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, may be obtained without charge from the corporate offices
as follows:  

  Sheila Davis,
PR/IR Manager 
Winnebago Industries, Inc. 
605 W. Crystal Lake Road 
P.O. Box 152 
Forest City, Iowa 50436-0152 
Telephone: (641) 585-3535 
Fax: (641) 585-6966 
E-Mail: ir @winnebagoind.com   

  All news
releases issued by us, reports filed by us with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (including exhibits) and information on our Corporate Governance
Policies and Procedures may also be viewed at the Winnebago Industries  Web
site:  http://winnebagoind.com/investor.html .
Information contained on Winnebago Industries  Web site is not incorporated
into this Annual Report or other securities filings.  

Shareholder Account Assistance   

  Transfer Agent
to contact for address changes, account certificates and stock holdings:   

  Wells Fargo
Shareowner Services 
P.O. Box 64854 
St. Paul, Minnesota 55164-0854 or 
161 North Concord Exchange 
South St. Paul, Minnesota 55075-1139 
Telephone: (800) 468-9716 or 
(651) 450-4064  
Inquirees: www.wellsfargo.com/shareownerservices   

   Annual Meeting    

  The Annual
Meeting of Shareholders is scheduled to be held on Tuesday, January 9, 2007, at
4:00 p.m. (CST) in Winnebago Industries  South Office Complex Theater, 605 W.
Crystal Lake Road, Forest City, Iowa.   

   Independent Auditors    

  Deloitte  
Touche LLP 
400 One Financial Plaza 
120 South Sixth Street  
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402-1844 
(612) 397-4000   

   Purchase of Common Stock    

  Winnebago
Industries stock may be purchased from ShareBuilder Corporation through our Web
site at: http://winnebagoind.com/investor.html. Winnebago Industries is not
affiliated with ShareBuilder and has no involvement in the relationship between
ShareBuilder and any of its customers.   

   NYSE Annual CEO Certification and
Sarbanes-Oxley Section 302 Certifications   

  We submitted
the annual Chief Executive Officer Certification to the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) as required under the corporate governance rules of the NYSE. We also
filed as exhibits to our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer certifications required under Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

  47  

<EX-21>
 3
 wgo064295_ex21.htm
 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

Exhibit 21 to Winnebago Industries, Inc. Form 10-K dated August 26, 2006  

EXHIBIT 21   

List of Subsidiaries   

Name of Corporation   

Jurisdiction of
  Incorporation   

Percent of  
  Ownership   

Winnebago Industries, Inc.  

Iowa  

Parent  

Winnebago Acceptance Corporation  

Iowa  

100%  

Winnebago R.V., Inc.  

Delaware  

100%  

</EX-21>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 wgo064295_ex31-1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Exhibit 31.1 to Winnebago Industries, Inc. Form 10-K dated August 26, 2006  

EXHIBIT 31.1   

   CERTIFICATION BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302  
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  I, Bruce D. Hertzke, Chief
Executive Officer of Winnebago Industries, Inc., certify that:   

1.  

I have reviewed this
  Annual Report on Form 10-K of Winnebago Industries, Inc. (the  Registrant    

2.  

Based on my knowledge,
  this Annual Report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
  or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
  light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
  misleading with respect to the period covered by this Annual Report;   

3.  

Based on my knowledge, the
  financial statements and other financial information included in this Annual
  Report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
  results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the
  periods presented in this Annual Report;   

4.  

The Registrant s other
  certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
  disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
  and 15d-15(e) and internal control over financial reporting as defined in
  Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) for the Registrant and have:   

a)  

designed such disclosure
  controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to
  be designed under our supervision to ensure that material information
  relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
  known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period
  in which this Annual Report is being prepared;  

b)  

designed such internal
  controls over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
  financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
  reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
  preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
  generally accepted accounting principles;  

c)  

evaluated the
  effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
  presented in this Annual Report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
  the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
  by this Annual Report (the  Evaluation Date ) based on such evaluation; and  

d)  

disclosed in this
  Annual Report any change in the Registrant s internal control over financial
  reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
  (the Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in this case) that has materially
  affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant s
  internal control over financing reporting; and,  

5.  

The Registrant s other
  certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
  of internal control over financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors
  and the audit committee of the Registrant s Board of Directors (or persons
  performing the equivalent functions):   

a)  

all significant
  deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
  control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
  affect the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
  information and;  

b)  

any fraud, whether or not
  material, that involved management or other employees who have a significant
  role in the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: November 9, 2006   

By:  

/s/ Bruce D.
  Hertzke  

Bruce D.
  Hertzke  

Chairman of
  the Board and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 wgo064295_ex31-2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Exhibit 31.2 to Winnebago Industries, Inc. Form 10-K dated August 26, 2006  

EXHIBIT 31.2   

   CERTIFICATION BY CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  I, Sarah N. Nielsen, Chief
Financial Officer of Winnebago Industries, Inc., certify that:   

1.  

I have reviewed this
  Annual Report on Form 10-K of Winnebago Industries, Inc. (the  Registrant   

2.  

Based on my knowledge,
  this Annual Report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
  or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
  light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
  misleading with respect to the period covered by this Annual Report;  

3.  

Based on my knowledge, the
  financial statements and other financial information included in this Annual
  Report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
  results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the
  periods presented in this Annual Report;  

4.  

The Registrant s other
  certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
  disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
  and 15d-15(e) and internal control over financial reporting as defined in
  Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) for the Registrant and have:  

a)  

designed such disclosure
  controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to
  be designed under our supervision to ensure that material information
  relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
  known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period
  in which this Annual Report is being prepared;  

b)  

designed such internal
  controls over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
  financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
  reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
  preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
  generally accepted accounting principles;  

c)  

evaluated the
  effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
  presented in this Annual Report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
  the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
  by this Annual Report (the  Evaluation Date ) based on such evaluation; and  

d)  

disclosed in this Annual
  Report any change in the Registrant s internal control over financial
  reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
  (the Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in this case) that has materially
  affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant s
  internal control over financing reporting; and,  

5.  

The Registrant s other
  certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
  of internal control over financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors
  and the audit committee of the Registrant s Board of Directors (or persons
  performing the equivalent functions):  

a)  

all significant
  deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
  control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
  affect the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
  financial information and;  

b)  

any fraud, whether or not
  material, that involved management or other employees who have a significant
  role in the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: November 9, 2006  

By:  

/s/ Sarah N.
  Nielsen  

Sarah N.
  Nielsen  

Vice
  President, Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 wgo064295_ex32-1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Exhibit 32.1 to Winnebago Industries, Inc. Form 10-K dated August 26, 2006  

Exhibit 32.1   

   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
(18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350)   

  In connection with this
Annual Report on Form 10-K of Winnebago Industries, Inc. for the period ended
August 26, 2006, I, Bruce D. Hertzke, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer of Winnebago Industries, Inc., certifies that pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
 1350 as adopted pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

(a)  

This Annual Report on Form
  10-K ( periodic report ) of Winnebago Industries, Inc. (the  issuer ), for
  the fiscal year ended August 26, 2006 as filed with the Securities and
  Exchange Commission on the date of this certificate, which this statement
  accompanies, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d)
  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and  

(b)  

the information contained
  in this periodic report fairly represents, in all material respects, the
  financial condition and results of operations of the issuer.  

Date:  

November 9, 2006  

By:  

/s/ Bruce D.
  Hertzke  

Bruce D.
  Hertzke  

Chairman of
  the Board and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 7
 wgo064295_ex32-2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Exhibit 32.2 to Winnebago Industries, Inc. Form 10-K dated August 26, 2006  

Exhibit 32.2    

   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
(18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350)   

  In connection with this
Annual Report on Form 10-K of Winnebago Industries, Inc. for the period ended
August 26, 2006, I, Sarah N. Nielsen, Chief Financial Officer of Winnebago
Industries, Inc., certifies that pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350 as adopted
pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(a)  

This Annual Report on Form
  10-K ( periodic report ) of Winnebago Industries, Inc. (the  issuer ), for
  the fiscal year ended August 26, 2006 as filed with the Securities and
  Exchange Commission on the date of this certificate, which this statement
  accompanies, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d)
  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and  

(b)  

the information contained
  in this periodic report fairly represents, in all material respects, the
  financial condition and results of operations of the issuer.  

Date:  

November 9, 2006  

By:  

/s/ Sarah N.
  Nielsen  

Sarah N.
  Nielsen  

Vice
  President, Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-32.2>

