<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061201_10-K_edgar_data_351298_0000950137-06-013087_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1095107</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>283842</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>601583</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>41</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950137-06-013087.hdr.sgml : 20061201
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061201150604
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950137-06-013087
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060902
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061201
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061201

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			HEI INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000351298
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				410944876
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0831

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-10078
		FILM NUMBER:		061250957

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1495 STEIGER LAKE LN
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 5000
		CITY:			VICTORIA
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55386
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9524432500

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 5000
		STREET 2:		1495 STEIGER LAKE LANE
		CITY:			VICTORIA
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55386

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 BaFcOM7e63XjOthE8kvkUiP64IBZMQ2KmADYqypZZtxBv5q7ypNl8FwsYqcgm48X
 ZKaIKkENLAUft9KMu/ZAHg==

 0000950137-06-013087.txt : 20061201

10-K
 1
 c10441e10vk.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission file number: 0-10078 

HEI, Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its Charter)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 

(952) 443-2500 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Common Stock, Par Value $.05 Per Share 

(Title of Class)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 

None 

Indicate by a check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act of
    1933.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by a check mark if the registrant is not required to
    file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d)
    of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No  o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a non- accelerated
    filer. See definition of   accelerated filer and large
    accelerated filer  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act.

Large
    accelerated filer  o 
      
          Accelerated
    filer  o 
      
          Non-accelerated
    filer

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act).  Yes  o      No   

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common
    equity held by non-affiliates as of the last business day of the
    registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
    (February 25, 2006) was approximately $25.4 million.

As of November 16, 2006, 9,504,567 of the registrant s
    common shares, par value $.05 per share, were outstanding.

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

PAGE # 

PART I  

ITEM 1.  

BUSINESS

4

ITEM 1A.  

RISK FACTORS

8

ITEM 1B.  

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

18

ITEM 2.  

PROPERTIES

18

ITEM 3.  

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

18

ITEM 4.  

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO VOTE OF
    SECURITY HOLDERS

19

PART II  

ITEM 5.  

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S
    COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES
    OF EQUITY SECURITIES

20

ITEM 6.  

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

21

ITEM 7.  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
    ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

22

ITEM 7A.  

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
    DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

34

ITEM 8.  

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
    SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

36

ITEM 9.  

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
    ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

70

ITEM 9A.  

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

71

ITEM 9B.  

OTHER INFORMATION

72

PART III  

ITEM 10.  

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
    OF THE REGISTRANT

72

ITEM 11.  

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

72

ITEM 12.  

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
    BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

72

ITEM 13.  

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
    TRANSACTIONS

72

ITEM 14.  

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND
    SERVICES

72

PART IV  

ITEM 15.  

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL
    STATEMENT SCHEDULES

73

SIGNATURES  

77

Severance and Release Agreement    
     2006 Amendment to 1998 Stock Option Plan    
     Subsidiaries of the Registrant    
     Consent of Virchow, Krause & Company, LLP    
     Consent of KPMG LLP    
     Section 302 Certification of CEO and CFO    
     Section 906 Certification of CEO and CFO    

Documents
    Incorporated By Reference  

Certain information required by Part III is omitted from
    this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    because the Registrant will file a definitive Proxy Statement
    relating to its 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders pursuant to
    Schedule 14A (the  Proxy Statement ) not later
    than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by
    this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    and certain information included therein is incorporated herein
    by reference as indicated below.

2

Table of Contents   

FORWARD-LOOKING
    STATEMENTS  

Some of the information included in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe
    harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
    Act of 1995 that involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
    You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such
    as  may,   will,   expect, 
     anticipate,   believe,   intend, 
     estimate,   continue,  and similar words.
    You should read statements that contain these words carefully
    for the following reasons: such statements discuss our future
    expectations, such statements contain projections of future
    earnings or financial condition and such statements state other
    forward-looking information. Although it is important to
    communicate our expectations, there may be events in the future
    that we are not accurately able to predict or over which we have
    no control. The Risk Factors included in Item 1A of this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    provide examples of such risks, uncertainties and events that
    may cause actual results to differ materially from our
    expectations and the forward-looking statements. Readers are
    cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking
    statements, as we undertake no obligation to update these
    forward-looking statements to reflect ensuing events or
    circumstances, or subsequent actual results. 

GENERAL
    INFORMATION  

HEI, Inc. and its subsidiaries are referred to in this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    as  HEI,  the  Company,   us, 
     we  or  our,  unless the context indicates
    otherwise.

During fiscal year 2006, the Company changed its fiscal year end
    to a 52 or 53 week period ending on the Saturday closest to
    August 31. Fiscal year 2006 ended on September 2,
    2006. Fiscal years 2005 and 2004 ended on August 31, 2005
    and August 31, 2004, respectively, and are identified
    herein as Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004.

3

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.      

Business.   

Business
    of the Company  

Overview:   We provide a comprehensive range of
    engineering services including product design, design for
    manufacturability, cost reduction and optimization, testing and
    quality review. In addition, HEI serves it customers in the
    medical, communications and industrial markets with automated
    test, and fulfillment and distribution services. We provide
    these services on a global basis through four facilities in the
    United States. These services support our customers 
    product plans from initial design, through manufacturing,
    distribution and service to end of life services. We leverage
    several proprietary platforms to provide unique solutions to our
    target markets. Our current focus is on expanding our revenue
    with new and existing customers and improving profitability with
    operational enhancements.

We operate the business under two business segments. These
    segments are:

Microelectronics Operations: This segment consists of three
    facilities   Victoria and Chanhassen, Minnesota and
    Tempe, Arizona   that design, manufacture and sell
    ultra miniature microelectronic devices, Radio Frequency
    Identification ( RFID ) solutions and complex flexible
    substrates.

Advanced Medical Operations: This segment consists of our
    Boulder facility that provides design and manufacturing
    outsourcing of complex electronic and electromechanical medical
    devices.

Our segment data for each of the last three fiscal years are
    disclosed in the financial statements included in Item 8 of
    this report.

Microelectronics
    Operations   

In our Victoria, Minnesota facility, we design microelectronics
    components that are integrated into medical or communications
    devices. Typically these microelectronics circuits consist of
    assembling one or more integrated circuits (ICs) or chips and
    some passive electronic components onto a ceramic or organic
    substrate. These microelectronics assemblies are typically
    integrated into our customers  end products such as
    cochlear implants, insulin pumps or network switching systems.
    For example, in the case of an insulin pump the microelectronics
    assemblies start with a complex flexible substrate provided by
    our Tempe, Arizona facility. Then our Victoria, Minnesota
    facility builds up a circuit onto the flexible substrate
    attaching active and passive electronic components. We ship this
    sub-assembly to our customers who further assemble the insulin
    pump into a shell with an LED, battery and insulin vile as a
    finished device. Our Victoria, Chanhassen and Tempe facilities
    have been ISO 9000:2000 compliant since August 2003.

Certain proprietary technology employed in our Victoria facility
    allows us to manufacture miniature chip packages that are
    specially designed to hold and protect high frequency chips for
    broadband communications. This package, with the enclosed chip,
    may then be easily and inexpensively attached to a circuit board
    without degrading the high-frequency performance of the chip.
    These packages, and the high-frequency chips that they contain,
    are specifically designed for applications in high-speed optical
    communication devices   the individual parts of the
    fiber-optic telecommunications network that companies and
    individuals use to transmit data, voice and video across both
    short and very long distances. We manufacture our products by
    fabricating a substrate and placing integrated circuits and
    passive electrical components onto that substrate. Substrates
    are made of multi-layer ceramic or laminate materials. The
    process of placing components onto the substrate is automated
    using sophisticated equipment that picks an IC from a wafer or
    waffle pack and places it onto a substrate with very high
    precision. Many of the components require wire bonding to
    electrically connect them to the substrate. We then electrically
    test the microelectronic assemblies to ensure reliability.

Our Chanhassen facility manufactures wireless smart cards and
    other ultra-miniature RF products. Ultra miniature electronic
    modules are connected to a RF coil, creating an assembly. This
    assembly is contained within a smart card or wireless card
    (about the size of a credit card) that is used for financial,
    security access, identification or tracking applications.

4

Table of Contents   

Our Tempe facility designs and manufactures high quality, high
    density flexible substrates. We utilize specialized tooling
    strategies, advanced procedures and a highly trained team to
    minimize circuit handling and ensure that consistent processing
    parameters are maintained throughout the manufacturing process.
    Tempe supplies a portion of the substrates used in the
    microelectronics circuits built in our Victoria facility
    including defibrillator and insulin pump component
    manufacturing. In addition, the Tempe facility sells flexible
    substrates directly to customers for implantable and
    non-implantable medical devices as well as optical
    communications circuit applications. We continue to leverage
    market interest in designing microelectronics with flexible
    substrates to grow HEI s total business.

Advanced
    Medical Operations   

Our Boulder, Colorado facility provides Electronics
    Manufacturing Services in four key areas relating to our
    Advanced Medical Operations. For large medical device original
    equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and emerging medical device
    companies, we provide design and development services, software
    validation and verification services and value added services
    including fulfillment, distribution and end of life services.
    Our design and development projects generally include project
    concept definition, development of specifications for product
    features and functions, product engineering specifications,
    instrument design, development, prototype production and testing
    and development of test specifications and procedures. We also
    perform verification and validation test for software used in
    medical device applications. HEI maintains a technical staff of
    engineers with backgrounds in electrical, mechanical, software
    and manufacturing disciplines. The manufacturing group manages a
    production line that utilizes a combination of lean flow and six
    sigma manufacturing techniques. This group currently
    manufactures electro mechanical designs for medical diagnostic
    and therapeutic hardware and medical imaging subsystems. We are
    a registered device manufacturer with the Food and Drug
    Administration (the  FDA ) and are required to meet
    the FDA s Quality System Regulation ( QSR )
    standards. Manufacturing projects include pre-production and
    commercialization services, turnkey manufacturing of FDA
    Class I, Class II and Class III devices and
    system test services. In addition, our Boulder facility provides
    logistical support distributing devices directly to the
    OEMs  customers and in some cases billing them directly.
    Finally, HEI provides service support to medical imaging and
    therapeutic medical device customers, ranging from receipt and
    decontamination of field returns to troubleshooting, repair or
    shipping new products, to managing the documentation required by
    the FDA.

Customers:   We sell our products through our
    employed sales staff. This sales staff is focused on serving
    HEI s focus on vertical market niches and is based at our
    facilities in Minnesota and Colorado. In addition, we promote
    our services through public relations, industry-focused sales
    lists, website and exhibits at industry trade shows.

We currently have annual agreements with GE Healthcare,
    Johnson & Johnson Ethicon Gynacare Division and
    Johnson & Johnson Biosense Webster Division. In
    addition, we have annual agreements with 11 of our top 20
    customers. These agreements typically include basic
    understandings that relate to estimated volume requirements, as
    well as a range of prices for the coming year. These agreements
    generally are cancelable by either party for any reason upon
    advanced notice given within a relatively short time period
    (eight to twelve weeks) and, upon such cancellation, the
    customer is liable only for any residual inventory purchased in
    accordance with the agreement as well as work in progress.
    Although these annual agreements do not commit our customers to
    order specific quantities of products, they set the sale price
    and are useful as they assist us in forecasting customer s
    orders for the upcoming year.

Actual orders from our customers with whom we have annual
    agreements are made through customer supplied purchase orders
    ( POs ). POs specify quantity, price, product lead
    times, material and quality requirements and other general
    business terms and conditions.

Component Supply Operations:   For all
    application specific or custom material, we try to match the
    quantities and terms related to the supply of such product of
    the customer and all major vendors. Typically, there are many
    sources of raw material supplies available nationally and
    internationally; however, many raw materials we use are customer
    specified and we are required to use customer specified vendors,
    or the customer supplies materials to us. The ICs that we
    assemble onto circuit boards are an example of a raw material
    that is commonly customer specified and available from specified
    vendors or supplied by the customer.

5

Table of Contents   

Proprietary Technology:   We use proprietary
    technology and proprietary processes to incorporate such
    technology into many of our customer s products. We protect
    this technology through patents, proprietary information
    agreements with our customers and vendors and non-disclosure
    agreements with substantially all of our employees. We have
    approximately 17 different inventions across the spectrum of our
    activities, which consist of 10 issued patents and 7 pending
    patents. We pursue new patentable technologies whenever
    practicable and have extended many of these filings in
    international venues. Our two most recent granted US patents are
     Structures and assembly methods for
    radio-frequency-identification (RFID) modules  and
     Hearing-aid assembly using folded flex circuits . The
    RFID patent covers a modular package for encapsulating a
    radio-frequency-identification chip in a package suitable for
    embedding into a card, key-fob, or other such device for use in
    security, accessibility, and identification applications. The
    hearing-aid patent saves space and reduces the cost of
    manufacturing hearing aids. We bring value to our customers, in
    part, by leveraging our publicly disclosed technology as well as
    our internally protected trade secrets and know-how to provide
    solutions and enhancements to our customer s products.
    These capabilities include the application of multiple
    manufacturing technologies from both product performance and
    product manufacturability perspectives, manufacturing processes,
    such as lean-flow, that reduce overall production cost, and
    systems and methodologies that streamline development resulting
    in robust product designs that fulfill the stringent
    requirements of the FDA. Our proprietary technology and patents
    are incorporated into our daily production and design efforts
    which allows us to maintain our competitiveness in the
    marketplace and allows us to differentiate ourselves with our
    customers when compared to competitors that do not have such
    proprietary technologies.

Government Regulations:   Certain end products
    of our customers that we manufacture in our facilities are
    subject to federal governmental regulations (such as FDA
    regulations). The Boulder facility is a registered device
    manufacturer with the FDA. The Medical Device Amendments of 1976
    to the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the  FDC Act ),
    and regulations issued or proposed under the FDC Act, including
    the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990, provide for regulation by
    the FDA of the marketing, design, manufacturing, labeling,
    packaging and distribution of medical devices. These regulations
    apply to products that are outsourced to us for manufacture,
    which include many of our customers  products, but not to
    our imaging and power generation components. The FDC Act and the
    regulations include requirements that manufacturers of medical
    products and devices register with, and furnish lists of
    products and devices manufactured by them, to the FDA. The FDA
    regulates many of our customers  products, and requires
    certain clearances or approvals before new medical devices can
    be marketed. As a prerequisite to any introduction of a new
    device into the medical marketplace, our customers must obtain
    necessary product clearances or approvals from the FDA or other
    regulatory agencies. In addition, products intended for use in
    foreign countries must comply with similar requirements and be
    certified for sale in those countries.

The FDA s QSR for medical devices sets forth requirements
    for the design and manufacturing processes that require the
    maintenance of certain records and provide for unscheduled
    inspections of our Boulder facilities. The FDA reviewed our
    procedures and records during routine general inspections in
    1995 and each fiscal year from 1997 to 2004. The FDA did not
    review our procedures and records in Fiscal 2005 or 2006.

We are not directly subject to any governmental regulations or
    industry standards at our Victoria, Chanhassen and Tempe
    facilities. However, we are subject to certain industry
    standards in connection with our ISO 9000:2000 certification.
    Our products and manufacturing processes at such facilities are
    subject to customer review for compliance with such
    customer s specific requirements. The main purpose of such
    customer reviews is to assure manufacturing compliance with
    customer specifications and quality. All facilities are subject
    to local environmental regulations.

Over 90 countries have adopted the ISO 9000 series of quality
    management and quality assurance standards. ISO standards
    require that a quality system be used to guide work to assure
    quality and to produce quality products and services. These
    elements include management responsibility, design control,
    training, process control and servicing. ISO 9001 is the quality
    systems standard used by companies providing design,
    development, manufacturing, installation and servicing. The
    quality systems for our AMO are ISO 13485 certified, and our
    Victoria, Chanhassen, and Tempe facilities achieved ISO
    9000:2000 certification in August 2003.

There are no material costs or expenses associated with our
    compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws
    other than quality control costs associated with compliance. As
    a small generator of hazardous

6

Table of Contents   

substances, we are subject to local governmental regulations
    relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission,
    generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic or other hazardous
    substances, such as waste oil, acetone and alcohol that are used
    in small quantities to manufacture our products. We are
    currently in compliance with these regulations and we have valid
    permits for the storage and disposal of the hazardous substances
    we generate. If we fail to comply with these regulations,
    substantial fines could be imposed on us and we could be
    required to suspend production, alter manufacturing processes or
    cease operations.

Dependence on Single or Few Customers and
    Backlog:   The table below shows the percentage of
    our net sales to major customers that accounted for more than
    10% of total net sales in our fiscal years ended
    September 2, 2006, August 31, 2005 and August 31,
    2004.

Progress has been made in the diversification of the customer
    base with only one customer contributing over 10% of net sales
    in our fiscal years ended September 2, 2006,
    August 31, 2005 and August 31, 2004. Crystalaid is a
    customer of our Tempe operation and is part of our
    Hearing/Medical market and GE Medical Systems, a subsidiary of
    General Electric Company, is a customer of our Advanced Medical
    Operations. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial
    Statements   Major Customer, Concentration of Credit
    Risk and Geographic Data   for financial
    information about net sales from external customers attributed
    to specific geographic areas.

The following table illustrates the approximate percentage of
    our net sales by markets served.

Our objectives are to increase our product offerings and expand
    our customer base to achieve further diversification. During
    Fiscal 2004, we changed our strategic focus from one of
    diversifying between our key markets to strengthening our
    efforts on the Medical/Hearing market and the communications
    market.

At September 2, 2006, our backlog of orders for revenue was
    approximately $14.9 million, compared to approximately
    $20.1 million and $18.2 million at August 31,
    2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect to ship our backlog as of
    September 2, 2006 during Fiscal 2007. This decrease in
    backlog is reflective of a change in the way our customers do
    business in that they no longer provide long-term purchase
    commitments to us. This shift has taken place over the past 3 to
    9 months in most of our divisions. Our backlog is not
    necessarily a firm commitment from our customers and can change,
    in some cases materially, beyond our control.

Competition:   In each of our product lines, we
    face significant competition, including customers who may
    produce the same or similar products themselves. We believe that
    our competitive advantage starts with knowledge of the market
    requirements and our investment in technology to meet those
    demands. We use proprietary technology and proprietary processes
    to create unique solutions for our customers  product
    development and manufacturing requirements. We believe that
    customers engage us because they view us to be on the leading
    edge in designing and manufacturing products that, in turn, help
    them to deliver better products faster and more cost effectively
    than they could do themselves. We also compete on the basis of
    full service to obtain new and repeat orders. We are a
    full-service supplier and partner with our customers, often
    providing full  turn-key  capability.

Engineering, Research and Development:   The
    amount that we spent on company-sponsored engineering, research
    and development activities aggregated approximately $4,238,000,
    $3,264,000 and $3,165,000 for our fiscal years ended
    September 2, 2006, August 31, 2005 and August 31,
    2004, respectively.

7

Table of Contents   

Employees:   On September 2, 2006, we
    employed 399 full-time persons. In addition, we employ a
    number of part-time employees. As of September 2, 2006, we
    employed an equivalent of 67 full-time employees on a
    part-time basis.

Geographical Information:   Our geographical
    data for each of the last three fiscal years are disclosed in
    the financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.

Website and Available Information:   Our website
    is located at  www.heii.com . Information on this website
    does not constitute part of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

We make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    our Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    our Current Reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act
    of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such forms are
    filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of these documents
    are available to our shareholders at our website or upon written
    request to our Chief Executive Officer at P.O. Box 5000,
    1495 Steiger Lake Lane, Victoria, Minnesota, 55386.

Item 1A.   Risk
    Factors.   

Our business faces significant risks. The risks described below
    are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and
    uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently
    believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations.
    If any of the events or circumstances described in the following
    risks occurs, our business, operating results or financial
    condition could be materially adversely affected. The following
    risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other
    information and risks set forth in this report.

We have a history of losses.   For the year
    ended September 2, 2006, we had a gross margin of
    $7.96 million generated from net sales of
    $52.6 million with which to cover sales, marketing,
    research, development and general administrative costs. Our
    sales, marketing, research, development and general
    administrative costs have historically been a significant
    percentage of our net sales, due partly to the expenses of
    developing leads and the relatively long period required to
    convert leads into sales associated with selling products that
    are not yet considered   mainstream   technology
    investments. For the year ended September 2, 2006, our
    operating expenses exceeded our gross margin by
    $5.2 million or 66%. For the year ended August 31,
    2005, our gross margin exceeded our operating expenses by
    $237,000 or 2%. For the year ended August 31, 2004, our
    operating expenses exceeded our profit margin by
    $8.5 million or 207%. Total net loss in Fiscal 2006 was
    $6.1 million compared to a $355,000 net income for Fiscal
    2005 and a net loss in Fiscal 2004 of $7.0 million.
    Although we expect our operating losses as a percentage of net
    sales to continue to decline and reach break-even during Fiscal
    2007, we may not achieve profitability.

We may need to raise additional capital if we do not quickly
    become profitable.   Based on our cash balance at
    September 2, 2006 of $674,000 and our expectation that we
    will generate positive cash from operations in Fiscal 2007, we
    anticipate having sufficient cash resources for at least the
    next twelve months. The business environment may not be
    conducive to raising additional debt or equity financing. If we
    borrow money, we may incur significant interest charges, which
    could harm our operating results. Holders of debt would also
    have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of
    existing holders of our common stock. If we raise additional
    equity, the terms of such financing may dilute the ownership
    interests of current investors and cause our stock price to fall
    significantly. We may not be able to secure financing upon
    acceptable terms at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable
    terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products or
    customer base, take advantage of future opportunities or respond
    to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which
    could seriously harm our business, operating results, and
    financial condition.

Recent financing from our Chairman is short term and may
    create conflicts of interest.   Our ability to fund
    our operations depends substantially on a recent $5,000,000 loan
    from our Chairman, who also owns a substantial number of shares
    of HEI common stock. The loan was received November 3, 2006
    and due in one year or November 2, 2007. This loan is short
    term, bears interest at a high rate and is secured by certain
    assets of HEI. There are no acceleration clauses, unless we
    default under the payment terms, or covenants attached to the
    loan and we may repay the loan prior to maturity without
    penalty. Our operations and liquidity would be negatively
    affected if this loan were not available, and the related party
    nature of this transaction may create conflicts of interest.

8

Table of Contents   

The price of our stock has been volatile and we could be
    delisted from the NADSAQ Global Market.   Our
    common stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and
    there is a risk we could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global
    Market. The market price of our common stock has been and may
    continue to be subject to significant fluctuation as a result of
    variations in our quarterly operating results and volatility in
    the financial markets. If our stock trades below $1.00 for 30
    consecutive business days, we may receive notice from the NASDAQ
    Global Market that we need to comply with the requirements for
    continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market within 90 calendar
    days from such notification or be delisted. If our stock is
    delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, an investor could find
    it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate
    quotations as to the market value of, our common stock.
    Additionally, our stock may be subject to   penny
    stock   regulations if it is delisted from the NASDAQ
    Global Market. If our common stock were subject to
      penny stock   regulations, which apply to
    certain equity securities not traded on the NASDAQ Global Market
    which have market price of less that $5.00 per share,
    subject to limited exceptions, additional disclosure would be
    required by broker-dealers in connection with any trades
    involving such stock.

We may lose business and revenues if we fail to successfully
    compete for our customers  business.   We face
    competition from the internal operations of our current and
    potential OEM customers and from offshore contract
    manufacturers, which, because of their lower labor rates and
    other related factors, may enjoy a competitive advantage over us
    with respect to high-volume production and lower production
    costs. We expect to continue to encounter competition from other
    electronics manufacturers that currently provide or may begin to
    provide contract design and manufacturing services.

A number of our competitors may have substantially greater
    manufacturing, financial, technical, marketing, and other
    resources than we have, and may offer a broader scope and
    presence of operations on a worldwide basis. Significant
    competitive factors in the microelectronics market include
    price, quality, design capabilities, responsiveness, testing
    capabilities, the ability to manufacture in very high volumes
    and proximity to the customers  final assembly facilities.
    While we have competed favorably in the past with respect to
    these factors, this is a particularly fast changing market, and
    there can be no assurance that we will continue to do so in the
    future.

We are often one of two or more suppliers on any particular
    customer requirement and are, therefore, subject to continuing
    competition on existing programs. In order to remain competitive
    in any of our markets, we must continually provide timely and
    technologically advanced design capabilities and manufacturing
    services, ensure the quality of our products, and compete
    favorably with respect to turnaround and price. If we fail to
    compete favorably with respect to the principal competitive
    factors in the markets we serve, we may lose business and our
    operating results may be reduced.

Fluctuations in the price and supply of components used to
    manufacture our products may reduce our
    profits.   Substantially all of our manufacturing
    services are provided on a turnkey basis in which we, in
    addition to providing design, assembly and testing services, are
    responsible for the procurement of the components that are
    assembled by us for our customers. Although we attempt to
    minimize margin erosion as a result of component price
    increases, in certain circumstances we are required to bear some
    or all of the risk of such price fluctuations, which could
    adversely affect our profits. To date, we have generally been
    able to negotiate contracts that allow us to adjust our prices
    on a periodic basis (typically quarterly, semi-annually, or
    annually); however, there can be no assurance that we will be
    able to do so in all cases.

In order to assure an adequate supply of certain key components
    that have long procurement lead times, such as ICs, we
    occasionally must order such components prior to receiving
    formal customer purchase orders for the assemblies that require
    such components. Failure to accurately anticipate the volume or
    timing of customer orders can result in component shortages or
    excess component inventory, which in either case could adversely
    affect our operating results and financial condition.

Certain of the assemblies manufactured by us require one or more
    components that are ordered from, or which may be available
    from, only one source or a limited number of sources. Delivery
    problems relating to components purchased from any of our key
    suppliers could have a material adverse impact on our financial
    performance. From time to time, our suppliers allocate
    components among their customers in response to supply
    shortages. In some cases, supply shortages will substantially
    curtail production of all assemblies using a particular
    component. In addition, at various times there have been
    industry-wide shortages of electronic components. While we have
    not

9

Table of Contents   

experienced sustained periods of shortages of components in the
    recent past, there can be no assurance that substantial
    component shortages will not occur in the future. Any such
    shortages could negatively affect our operating results.

Our costs may increase significantly if we are unable to
    forecast customer orders and production
    schedules.   The level and timing of orders placed
    by customers vary due to the customers  attempts to balance
    their inventory, changes in customers  manufacturing
    strategies, and variations in demand for the customers 
    products. Due in part to these factors, many of our customers do
    not commit to firm production schedules more than several weeks
    or months in advance of requirements. Our inability to forecast
    the level of customers  orders with certainty makes it
    difficult to schedule production and optimize utilization of
    manufacturing capacity. This uncertainty could also
    significantly increase our costs related to manufacturing
    product. In the past, we have been required to increase staffing
    and incur other expenses in order to meet the anticipated
    demands of our customers. From time to time, anticipated orders
    from some of our customers have failed to materialize and
    delivery schedules have been deferred as a result of changes in
    a customer s business needs, both of which have adversely
    affected our operating results. On other occasions, customers
    have required rapid increases in production that has placed an
    excessive burden on our resources. There can be no assurance
    that we will not experience similar fluctuations in customer
    demand in the future.

We may be unable to realize net sales from our
    backlog.   We compute our backlog from purchase
    orders received from our customers and from other contractual
    agreements. Our customer purchase orders and contracts typically
    preserve the customer s right to cancel with appropriate
    notice. As such, even though we may have contractual agreements
    or purchase orders for future shipments, there is no guarantee
    that this backlog will be realized in net sales.

Future quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate
    substantially due to a number of factors, many of which are
    beyond our control and could cause our stock price to
    decline.   We have experienced substantial
    fluctuations in our annual and quarterly operating results, and
    such fluctuations may continue in future periods. Our operating
    results are affected by a number of factors, many of which are
    beyond our control, including the following:

we may manufacture products that are custom designed and
    assembled for a specific customer s requirement in
    anticipation of the receipt of volume production orders from
    that customer, which may not always materialize to the degree
    anticipated, if at all;

we may incur significant
     start-up 
    costs in the production of a particular product, which costs are
    expensed as incurred and for which we attempt to seek
    reimbursement from the customer;

we may experience fluctuations and inefficiencies in managing
    inventories, fixed assets, components and labor, in the degree
    of automation used in the assembly process, in the costs of
    materials, and the mix of materials, labor, manufacturing, and
    overhead costs;

we may experience unforeseen design or manufacturing problems,
    price competition or functional competition (other means of
    accomplishing the same or similarly packaged end result);

we may be unable to pass on cost overruns;

we may not be able to gain the benefits expected out of
     lean-flow  manufacturing at our Victoria facility;

we may not have control over the timing of expenditures in
    anticipation of increased sales, customer product delivery
    requirements and the range of services provided; and

we may experience variance in the amount and timing of orders
    placed by a customer due to a number of factors, including
    inventory balancing, changes in manufacturing strategy, and
    variation in product demand attributable to, among other things,
    product life cycles, competitive factors, and general economic
    conditions.

Any one of these factors, or a combination of one or more
    factors, could adversely affect our annual and quarterly
    operating results, which in turn may cause our stock price to
    decline.

10

Table of Contents   

We may fail to adequately adjust our expenses to predicted
    revenue in any given period or we may experience significant
    fluctuations in quarterly net sales because the sales cycle for
    our products and services is lengthy and
    unpredictable.   While our sales cycle varies from
    customer to customer, it historically has ranged from two to
    12 months. Our pursuit of sales leads typically involves an
    analysis of our prospective customer s needs, preparation
    of a written proposal, one or more presentations and contract
    negotiations. Our sales cycle may also be affected by the
    complexity of the product to be developed and manufactured as
    well as a prospective customer s budgetary constraints and
    internal acceptance reviews, over which we have little or no
    control. As a result of this variability, combined with the fact
    that many of our expenses are fixed, we may fail to adequately
    adjust our expenses to predicted revenue in any given period or
    we may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly net
    sales.

We may have a significant accounts receivable write-off as
    well as an increase in inventory reserve due to the inability of
    our customers to pay their accounts.   We may carry
    significant accounts receivable and inventory in connection with
    providing manufacturing services to our customers. If one or
    more of our principal customers were to become insolvent, or
    otherwise fail to pay for the services and materials provided by
    us, our operating results and financial condition would be
    adversely affected.

Our business success may be adversely affected by our ability
    to hire and retain employees.   Our continued
    growth and success depend to a significant extent on the
    continued service of senior management and other key employees
    and the hiring of new qualified employees. We rely upon the
    acquisition and retention of employees with extensive
    technological experience. Competition for skilled business,
    product development, technical and other personnel is intense.
    There can be no assurance that we will be successful in
    recruiting new personnel and retaining existing personnel. Some
    of our employees are subject to employment agreements that can
    be terminated upon providing 90 days advance, written
    notice by either party. The loss of one or more key employees
    may materially adversely affect our growth.

We operate in a regulated industry, and our products and
    revenue are subject to regulatory risk.   We are
    subject to a variety of regulatory agency requirements in the
    United States and foreign countries relating to many of the
    products that we develop and manufacture. The process of
    obtaining and maintaining required regulatory approvals and
    otherwise remaining in regulatory compliance can be lengthy,
    expensive and uncertain.

The FDA inspects manufacturers of certain types of devices
    before providing a clearance to manufacture and sell such
    devices, and the failure to pass such an inspection could result
    in delay in moving ahead with a product or project. We are
    required to comply with the FDA s QSR for the development
    and manufacture of medical products. In addition, in order for
    devices we design or manufacture to be exported and for us and
    our customers to be qualified to use the  CE  mark in
    the European Union, we maintain ISO 9001/EN 46001 certification
    which, like the QSR, subjects our operations to periodic
    surveillance audits. To ensure compliance with various
    regulatory and quality requirements, we expend significant time,
    resources and effort in the areas of training, production and
    quality assurance. If we fail to comply with regulatory or
    quality regulations or other FDA or applicable legal
    requirements, the governing agencies can issue warning letters,
    impose government sanctions and levy serious penalties.

Noncompliance or regulatory action could have a negative impact
    on our business, including the increased cost of coming into
    compliance, and an adverse effect on the willingness of
    customers and prospective customers to do business with us. Such
    noncompliance, as well as any increased cost of compliance,
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition.

If our customers do not promptly obtain regulatory approval
    for their products, our projects and net sales may be adversely
    affected.   The FDA regulates many of our
    customers  products, and requires certain clearances or
    approvals before new medical devices can be marketed. As a
    prerequisite to any introduction of a new device into the
    medical marketplace, our customers must obtain necessary product
    clearances or approvals from the FDA or other regulatory
    agencies. This can be a slow and uncertain process, and there
    can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be
    obtained on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, products
    intended for use in foreign countries must comply with similar
    requirements and be certified for sale in those countries. A
    customer s failure to comply with the FDA s
    requirements can result in the delay or denial of approval to
    proceed with the product. Delays in obtaining regulatory
    approval are frequent and, in turn, can result in delaying or
    canceling customer orders. There can be no assurance that our
    customers will obtain or be able to maintain all required
    clearances or

11

Table of Contents   

approvals for domestic or exported products on a timely basis,
    if at all. The delays and potential product cancellations
    inherent in the regulatory approval and ongoing regulatory
    compliance of products we develop or manufacture may have a
    material adverse effect on our projects and revenue, as well as
    our business, reputation, results of operations and financial
    condition.

Failure to comply with our debt covenants may require us to
    immediately repay our outstanding balances
     and/or  may
    affect our ability to borrow funds in the future, either of
    which may adversely affect our future operating
    results.   At various times over the past five
    years we have not been in compliance with our debt covenants
    with the most recent occurring in June 2006. These defaults have
    had the effect of, among other things, increasing the cost of
    our financing.

Failure to meet our debt covenants in the future may require us
    to:

further increase borrowing rates;

incur amendment fees;

incur additional restrictions on our ability to borrow
    additional funds;

immediately repay our outstanding balances;

find a new lender, which may cause us to incur costs in
    connection with such new lending relationship; and

reduce the number of potential alterative lenders.

Any one of these factors, or a combination of one or more
    factors, could adversely affect our ability to borrow funds in
    the future or adversely affect future operating results.

We may fail to have enough liquidity to operate our business
    because we may not adequately adjust our expenses to actual
    revenue in any given period, which may dramatically and
    negatively impact our cash flow.   Our basis for
    determining our ability to fund our operations depends on our
    ability to accurately estimate our revenue streams and our
    ability to accurately predict our related expenditures.
    Furthermore, our borrowing base is fixed. As a result, we may
    fail to adequately adjust our expenses to actual revenue in any
    given period or we may experience significant fluctuations in
    quarterly revenue, either of which may dramatically and
    negatively affect our cash flow.

If the components that we design and manufacture are the
    subject of product recalls or a product liability claim, our
    business may be damaged, we may incur significant legal fees and
    our results of operations and financial condition may be
    adversely affected.   Certain of the components we
    design or manufacture are used in medical devices, several of
    which may be used in life-sustaining or life-supporting roles.
    The tolerance for error in the design, manufacture or use of
    these components and products may be small or nonexistent. If a
    component we designed or manufactured is found to be defective,
    whether due to design or manufacturing defects, improper use of
    the product or other reasons, the product may need to be
    recalled, possibly at our expense. Further, the adverse effect
    of a product recall on our business might not be limited to the
    cost of the recall. Recalls, especially if accompanied by
    unfavorable publicity or termination of customer contracts,
    could result in substantial costs, loss of revenues and damage
    to our reputation, each of which would have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.

The manufacture and sale of the medical devices involves the
    risk of product liability claims. Although we generally obtain
    indemnification from our customers for components that we
    manufacture to the customers  specifications and we
    maintain product liability insurance, there can be no assurance
    that the indemnities will be honored or the coverage of our
    insurance policies will be adequate. Further, we generally
    provide a warranty and indemnify our customers for failure of a
    product to conform to specifications and against defects in
    materials and workmanship. Product liability insurance is
    expensive and in the future may not be available on acceptable
    terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all. A successful product
    liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage or any
    material claim for which insurance coverage was denied or
    limited and for which indemnification was not available could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition.

The loss of a key customer may reduce our operating results
    and financial condition.   Over the past several
    years we have reduced our dependence on any one particular
    customer, however, the loss of a key customer could

12

Table of Contents   

adversely effect our operating results and financial condition.
    In Fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, one customer accounted for 14%,
    12%, and 17% , respectively, of our net sales. No other customer
    was over 10% of net sales in Fiscal 2006, 2005 or 2004. Although
    we are reducing the concentration of sales to any group of
    customers, we expect that sales to a relatively small number of
    OEMs will continue to account for a substantial portion of net
    sales for the foreseeable future. The loss of, or a decline in
    orders from, any one of our key customers would materially
    adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.
    We are working to maintain a focused yet diverse market and
    customer mix. New customers and programs can have a significant
    ramp up effort associated with getting the product ready for
    delivery. The efforts associated with managing a more
    diversified customer base and projects could prove to be more
    difficult than previously thought and could result in loss of
    customers and net sales.

If we are unable to develop new products and services our
    revenue could decrease.   Our products are subject
    to rapid obsolescence and our future success will depend upon
    our ability to develop new products and services that meet
    changing customer and marketplace requirements. Our products are
    based upon specifications from our customers. We may not be able
    to satisfactorily design and manufacture customer products based
    upon these specifications.

If we fail to properly anticipate the market for new products
    and service we may lose revenue.   Even if we are
    able to successfully identify, develop and manufacture as well
    as introduce new products and services, there is no assurance
    that a market for these products and services will materialize
    to the size and extent that we anticipate. If a market does not
    materialize as we anticipate, our business, operating results
    and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.
    The following factors could affect the success of our products
    and services in the microelectronic and other marketplaces:

the failure to adequately equip our manufacturing plant in
    anticipation of increasing business;

the failure of our design team to develop products in a timely
    manner to satisfy our present and potential customers; and

our limited experience in specific market segments in marketing
    our products and services, specifically in the telecom market.

Our business may suffer if we are unable to protect our
    intellectual property rights.   Intellectual
    property rights are important to our success and our competitive
    position. It is our policy to protect all proprietary
    information through the use of a combination of nondisclosure
    agreements and other contractual provisions and patent,
    trademark, trade secret and copyright law to protect our
    intellectual property rights. There is no assurance that these
    agreements, provisions and laws will be adequate to prevent the
    imitation or unauthorized use of our intellectual property.
    Policing unauthorized use of proprietary systems and products is
    difficult and, while we are unable to determine the extent to
    which infringement of our intellectual property exists,
    infringement could be a persistent problem. In addition, the
    laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual
    property rights to the same extent that the laws of the United
    States protect our intellectual property rights. If our
    intellectual property rights are not protected our business may
    suffer if a competitor uses our technology to capture our
    business, which could cause our sales and our stock price to
    decline. Furthermore, even if the agreements, provisions and
    intellectual property laws prove to be adequate to protect our
    intellectual property rights, our competitors may develop
    products or technologies that are both non-infringing and
    substantially equivalent or superior to our manufacturing
    methods, processes or technologies.

Third-party intellectual property infringement claims may be
    costly and may prevent the future sale of our customer s
    products.   Substantial litigation and threats of
    litigation regarding intellectual property rights exist in our
    industry. Third parties may claim that our customer s
    products or our manufacturing methods, processes or technologies
    infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Defending
    against third-party infringement claims may be costly and divert
    important management resources. Furthermore, if these claims are
    successful, we may have to pay substantial royalties or damages,
    assist in removing the infringing customer s products from
    the marketplace or expend substantial amounts in order to modify
    the customer s products so that they no longer infringe on
    the third party s rights.

13

Table of Contents   

We may pursue future significant corporate transactions, such
    as acquisitions, divestitures or investments that may adversely
    affect our financial position or cause our net sales to decline
    or loss per share to increase.   In the future, we
    may pursue significant corporate transactions, such as
    acquisitions, divestitures or investments in businesses,
    products and technologies that could focus, complement or expand
    our business. Such transactions, though, involve certain risks:

we may not be able to negotiate acceptable terms, with respect
    to an acquisition, divestiture or investment, or finance an
    acquisition or investment successfully;

a divestiture could reduce consolidated sales volumes and any
    economies associated with a larger enterprise;

the integration of acquired businesses, products or technologies
    into our existing business may fail; and

we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent
    liabilities, accept credit risk or have amortization expenses
    and write-downs of acquired assets which could cause our
    earnings per share to decline.

If our customers are unable to gain market acceptance for the
    products that we develop or manufacture for them, we may lose
    revenue.   We design and manufacture components for
    other companies. For products we manufacture (manufactured for
    others or those we sell directly), our success is dependent on
    the acceptance of those products in their markets. Market
    acceptance may depend on a variety of factors, including
    educating the target market regarding the use of a new
    procedure. Market acceptance and market share are also affected
    by the timing of market introduction of competitive products.
    Some of our customers, especially emerging growth companies,
    have limited or no experience in marketing their products and
    may be unable to establish effective sales and marketing and
    distribution channels to rapidly and successfully commercialize
    their products. If our customers are unable to gain any
    significant market acceptance for the products we develop or
    manufacture for them, our business will be adversely affected.

If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations
    we may be fined and prohibited from manufacturing
    products.   As a small generator of hazardous
    substances, we are subject to local governmental regulations
    relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission,
    generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic or other hazardous
    substances, such as waste oil, acetone and alcohol that are used
    in very small quantities to manufacture our products. While we
    are currently in compliance with applicable regulations, if we
    fail to comply with these regulations substantial fines could be
    imposed on us and we could be required to suspend production,
    alter manufacturing processes or cease operations.

We are dependent on a single market, and adverse trends in
    that market may reduce our revenues.   During the
    past several years, we have been significantly dependent on a
    single market. In Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004, 78%,
    81%, and 84%, respectively, of our net sales came from the
    medical/hearing market. This market is characterized by intense
    competition, rapid technological change, significant
    fluctuations in product demand and significant pressure on
    vendors to reduce or minimize cost. Accordingly, we may be
    adversely affected by these market trends to the extent that
    they reduce our revenues. In particular, if manufacturers in the
    medical/hearing market develop new technologies that do not
    incorporate our products, or if our competitors offer similar
    products at a lower cost to such manufacturers, our revenues may
    decrease and our business would be adversely affected. A
    significant amount of our non-hearing instrument industry sales
    are made in the medical products industry, which is
    characterized by trends similar to those in the hearing
    instrument manufacturer industry.

Our orders are subject to cancellation and cancellation can
    disrupt our business.   In certain circumstances,
    our customers are permitted to cancel their orders, change
    production quantities, delay production and terminate their
    contracts and any such event or series of events may adversely
    affect our gross margins and operating results. We, as a
    medical/hearing device development and manufacturing service
    provider, must provide product output that matches the needs of
    our customers, which can change from time to time. We generally
    do not obtain long-term commitments from our customers and we
    continue to experience reduced lead times in customer orders. In
    certain situations, cancellations, reductions in quantities,
    delays or terminations by a significant customer could adversely
    affect our operating results. Such cancellations, reductions or
    delays have occurred and may continue to occur in response to
    slowdowns in our customers  businesses or for other
    reasons. In addition, we make significant decisions, including
    determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept,
    production schedules, parts procurement

14

Table of Contents   

commitments, and personnel needs based on our estimates of
    customer requirements. Because many of our costs and operating
    expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand or
    a termination of a contract by a customer could adversely affect
    our gross margins and operating results.

Inventory management is critical to maximizing our cash
    flow.   Inventory risk and production delay may
    adversely affect our financial performance. Most of our contract
    manufacturing services are provided on a turnkey basis, where we
    purchase some or all of the materials required for product
    assembling and manufacturing. We bear varying amounts of
    inventory risk in providing services in this manner. In
    manufacturing operations, we need to order parts and supplies
    based on customer forecasts, which may be for a larger quantity
    of product than is included in the firm orders ultimately
    received from those customers and this cost may limit our
    available funds for other purposes. While many of our customer
    agreements include provisions that require customers to
    reimburse us for excess inventory which we specifically order to
    meet their forecasts, we may not actually be reimbursed or be
    able to collect on these obligations. In that case, we could
    have excess inventory
     and/or 
    cancellation or return charges from our suppliers. Our
    medical/hearing device manufacturing customers continue to
    experience fluctuating demand for their products, and in
    response they may ask us to reduce or delay production. If we
    delay production, our financial performance may be adversely
    affected.

If government or insurance company reimbursements for our
    customers  products change, our products, revenues and
    profitability may be adversely
    affected.   Governmental and insurance industry
    efforts to reform the healthcare industry and reduce healthcare
    spending have affected, and will continue to affect, the market
    for medical devices. There have been several instances of
    changes in governmental or commercial insurance reimbursement
    policies that have significantly impacted the markets for
    certain types of products or services or that have had an impact
    on entire industries, such as recent policies affecting payment
    for nursing home and home care services. Adverse governmental
    regulation relating to our components or our customers 
    products that might arise from future legislative,
    administrative or insurance industry policy cannot be predicted
    and the ultimate effect on private insurer and governmental
    healthcare reimbursement is unknown. Government and commercial
    insurance companies are increasingly vigorous in their attempts
    to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the
    level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products even if
    approved for marketing by the FDA. If government and commercial
    payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels
    for uses of our customers  products, the market acceptance
    of these products and our revenues and profitability would be
    adversely affected.

We have customers located in foreign countries and our
    unfamiliarity of the laws and business practices of such foreign
    countries could cause us to incur increased
    costs.   We currently have customers located in
    foreign countries and anticipate additional customers located
    outside the United States. Our lack of knowledge and
    understanding of the laws of, and the customary business
    practices in, foreign counties could cause us to incur increased
    costs in connection with disputes over contracts, environmental
    laws, collection of accounts receivable, holding excess and
    obsolete inventory, duties and other import and export fees,
    product warranty exposure and unanticipated changes in
    governmental regimes.

We have excess space available for sublease at our Colorado
    facility and may not be able to find qualified sublease
    tenants.   Our lease agreement at our Colorado
    facility allows for us to sublease out any excess space, subject
    to the approval of our landlord. We currently have a tenant for
    a portion of the facility and are actively looking for
    additional sublease tenants to sublease between 25,000 and
    50,000 square feet of vacant space or space that could be
    made available through changes in the current layout of the
    operation. Our ability to find additional sublease tenants will
    have an impact on the operating performance of that division if
    we cannot provide an offset to our base rent and facility
    operating costs.

Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and our
    Amended and Restated Bylaws, as amended, may discourage lawsuits
    and other claims against our directors.   Our
    articles of incorporation provide, to the fullest extent
    permitted by Minnesota law, that our directors shall have no
    personal liability for breaches of their fiduciary duties to us.
    In addition, our bylaws provide for mandatory indemnification of
    directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by
    Minnesota law. These provisions may reduce the likelihood of
    derivative litigation against directors and may discourage
    shareholders from bringing a lawsuit against directors for a
    breach of their duty.

15

Table of Contents   

We have issued numerous options to acquire our common stock
    that could have a dilutive effect on our common
    stock.   As of September 2, 2006, we had
    options outstanding to acquire 1,336,975 shares of our
    common stock, exercisable at prices ranging from $1.280 to
    $20.375 per share, with a weighted average exercise price
    of $4.80 per share. During the terms of these options, the
    holders will have the opportunity to profit from an increase in
    the market price of our common stock with resulting dilution to
    the holders of shares who purchased shares for a price higher
    than the respective exercise or conversion price.

The market price of our common stock may be reduced by future
    sales of our common stock in the public
    market.   Sales of substantial amounts of common
    stock in the public market that are not currently freely
    tradable, or even the potential for such sales, could have an
    adverse effect on the market price for shares of our common
    stock and could impair the ability of purchasers of our common
    stock to recoup their investment or make a profit. As of
    September 2, 2006, these shares consist of:

Unless the shares of our outstanding common stock owned by our
    executive officers and directors are further registered under
    the securities laws, they may not be resold except in compliance
    with Rule 144 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange
    Commission, or SEC, or some other exemption from registration.
    Rule 144 does not prohibit the sale of these shares but
    does place conditions on their resale that must be complied with
    before they can be resold.

The trading dynamics of our common stock makes it subject to
    large fluctuations in the per share value.   Our
    common stock is a micro-stock that is thinly traded on The
    NASDAQ Global Market. In some cases, our common stock may not
    trade during any given day. Small changes in the demand for
    shares of our common stock can have a material impact, both
    negatively and positively, in the trading share price of our
    stock.

Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation contain
    provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential
    takeover, even if such transaction would be beneficial to our
    shareholders.   Our amended and restated articles
    of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue
    shares of undesignated stock, the terms of which may be
    determined at the time of issuance by the board of directors,
    without further action by our shareholders. Undesignated stock
    authorized by the board of directors may include voting rights,
    preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and
    redemptive rights and sinking fund provisions that could affect
    the rights of the holders of our common stock and reduce the
    value of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could
    also prevent a potential takeover because the terms of any
    issued preferred stock may require the approval of the holders
    of the outstanding shares of preferred stock in order to
    consummate a merger, reorganization or sale of substantially all
    of our assets or other extraordinary corporate transaction.

Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide for a
    classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms.
    Our amended and restated articles of incorporation also require
    the affirmative vote of a supermajority (80%) of the voting
    power for the following matters:

to approve the merger or consolidation of us or any subsidiary
    with or into any person that directly or indirectly beneficially
    owns, or owned at any time in the preceding 12 months, five
    percent or more of the outstanding shares of our stock entitled
    to vote in elections of directors, referred to as a
     Related Person; 

to authorize the sale of substantially all of our assets to a
    Related Person;

to authorize the issuance of any of our voting securities in
    exchange or payment for the securities or assets of any Related
    Person, if such authorization is otherwise required by law or
    any agreement;

to adopt any plan for the dissolution of us; and

to adopt any amendment, change or repeal of certain articles of
    the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, including
    the articles that establish the authority of the Board of
    Directors, the supermajority voting requirements and the
    classified Board of Directors.

16

Table of Contents   

These provisions may have the effect of deterring a potential
    takeover or delaying changes in control or our management.

If we are not able to establish an effective control
    environment in Fiscal 2007, we will not comply with
    Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to internal
    controls over financial
    reporting.   Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act requires our independent registered public accounting firm
    to attest as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over
    financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for our fiscal year ending September 1, 2007, referred to
    as Fiscal 2007. During the audit of our consolidated financial
    statements for Fiscal 2004, we were cited by our independent
    registered public accounting firm for material weakness and
    reportable conditions in our internal controls. Under applicable
    SEC rules and regulations, management may not conclude that a
    company s internal control over financial reporting is
    effective if there are one or more material weaknesses in the
    company s internal control over financial reporting. We
    have implemented a number of changes in our internal controls to
    correct such reportable conditions and materials weaknesses in
    order to establish an effective control environment. We have
    initiated the process of documenting our internal control
    process and our evaluation of those controls. We cannot provide
    any assurance that we will timely complete the evaluation of our
    internal controls, including implementation of the necessary
    improvements to our internal controls, or that even if we do
    complete this evaluation and make such improvements, we do so in
    time to permit our independent registered public accounting firm
    to test our controls and complete their attestation procedures
    in a manner that will allow us to comply with the applicable SEC
    rules and regulations relating to internal controls over
    financial reporting by the filing deadline for our Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K 
    for Fiscal 2007.

The market price of our shares may experience significant
    price and volume fluctuations for reasons over which we have
    little control.   The trading price of our common
    stock has been, and is likely to continue to be volatile. The
    closing price of our common stock as reported on The NASDAQ
    Global Market has ranged from a high of $4.53 to a low of $1.62
    over the past two years. Our stock price could be subject to
    wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors,
    including, but not limited to, the risks relating to an
    investment in our stock described above and the following:

new products or services offered by us or our competitors;

failure to meet any publicly announced revenue projections;

actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results;

changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;

announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic
    partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments or
    divestitures by us or our competitors;

issuances of debt or equity securities;

changes in requirements or demands for our services;

technological innovations by us or our competitors;

quarterly variations in our or our competitors  operating
    results;

changes in prices of our or our competitors  products and
    services;

changes in our revenue and revenue growth rates;

changes in earnings estimates by market analysts;

speculation in the press or analyst community;

general market conditions or market conditions specific to
    particular industries; and

other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control.

17

Table of Contents   

In addition, the stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Global
    Market and companies in our industry, have experienced extreme
    price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or
    disproportionate to the operating performance of these
    companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively
    affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our
    actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of
    volatility in the market price of a company s securities,
    securities class action litigation has often been instituted
    against such companies. This type of litigation, if instituted,
    could result in substantial costs and a diversion of
    management s attention and resources, which would harm our
    business.

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments.   

None.

Item 2.      

Properties.   

We own a 48,000 square foot facility for administration and
    microelectronics production in Victoria, Minnesota, a suburb of
    Minneapolis, which was originally built in August 1981. The
    facility serves as collateral for a number of our financings.

We lease a 13,200 square foot production facility in Tempe,
    Arizona for our high density flexible substrates. The lease
    extends through July 31, 2010. Base rent is approximately
    $100,000 per year. We lease one property in Minnesota: a
    15,173 square foot facility in Chanhassen, Minnesota, for
    our RFID business. The Chanhassen facility is leased through
    August 31, 2012 with an option to extend the lease for an
    additional four years. Base rent is $96,629 per year. In
    addition to the base rent, we pay our proportionate share of
    common area maintenance expenses estimated to be
    $59,023 per year.

We lease a 152,002 square foot facility in Boulder,
    Colorado for our AMO. Our base rent is approximately $1,443,000
    for Fiscal 2007. In addition to the base rent, we pay all
    operating costs associated with this building. The annual base
    rent increases each year by 3%. The Boulder facility is leased
    until September 2019. Currently, we occupy 103,998 square
    feet of the facility and 26,797 is vacant. In April 2005, we
    entered into a ten year sublease agreement for
    21,207 square feet with a high quality tenant. This is a
    ten year lease which provides for rental payments and
    reimbursement of operating costs. Aggregate rental and operating
    cost payments payable of approximately $281,000 per year
    commenced in November 2006. We are continuing to look for
    sublease tenants for the remaining 26,797 square feet of
    vacant space.

Our Boulder lease provided for the refund of $1,350,000 of our
    security deposit after completing four consecutive quarters of
    positive earnings before interest, taxes depreciation and
    amortization, derived in accordance with Generally Accepted
    Accounting Principles ( GAAP ) and verified by an
    independent third party accountant and delivery to our landlord
    of the greater of 100,000 shares of our common stock or
    0.11% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In November
    2005, we delivered the required documents and a certificate for
    100,000 shares of our stock. On November 23, 2005, we
    received the $1,350,000 refund. The value of the additional
    stock consideration issued to our landlord was $336,000 and is
    being amortized over the remaining term of our lease.

We consider our current facilities adequate for our current
    needs and believe that suitable additional space would be
    available if necessary.

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings.   

On June 30, 2003, we commenced litigation against
    Mr. Fant, our former Chief Executive Officer and Chairman,
    in the State of Minnesota, Hennepin County District Court,
    Fourth Judicial District. The complaint alleged breach of
    contract, conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, unjust
    enrichment and corporate waste resulting from, among other
    things, Mr. Fant s default on his promissory note to
    us and other loans and certain other matters. On August 12,
    2003, we obtained a judgment against Mr. Fant on the breach
    of contract count in the amount of approximately $606,000. On
    November 24, 2003, the Court granted an additional judgment
    to us against Mr. Fant in the amount of approximately
    $993,000 on the basis of our conversion, breach of fiduciary
    duty, unjust enrichment and corporate waste claims. On
    March 29, 2004, we obtained a third judgment against
    Mr. Fant relating to our

18

Table of Contents   

claims for damages for conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, and
    our legal and special investigation costs in the amount of
    approximately $656,000. The total combined judgment against
    Mr. Fant was approximately $2,255,000, excluding interest.

During Fiscal 2004 and 2005, we obtained, through garnishments
    and through sales of common stock previously held by
    Mr. Fant, approximately $1,842,000 of recoveries which have
    served to partially reduce our total judgment against
    Mr. Fant. In Fiscal 2005 and 2004 we recognized $481,000
    and $1,361,000 of these recoveries, respectively. Mr. Fant
    filed for bankruptcy protection on October 14, 2005, but on
    December 1, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court dismissed the case
    with prejudice because adequate schedules were not filed. The
    Company will continue to seek to collect additional amounts from
    Mr. Fant. At this time, it is not possible to determine
    whether collection of additional amounts is possible.

Item 4.      

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security-Holders   

There were no matters submitted to a vote of shareholders during
    the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006.

19

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.   

Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Market
    under the symbol HEII. Below are the high and low sales prices
    for each quarter of our fiscal years ending September 2,
    2006 and August 31, 2005, for our common stock, as reported
    by the NASDAQ Global Market.

As of November 16, 2006, we had 288 direct shareholders of
    record of our common stock based on data obtained from our
    transfer agent.

We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since our
    initial public offering on March 24, 1981. We expect that
    for the foreseeable future we will follow a policy of retaining
    earnings in order to finance our continued development. Payment
    of dividends is within the discretion of our board of directors
    and will depend upon, among other things, our earnings, capital
    requirements and operating and financial condition. In addition,
    the terms of our term loan agreements provide that we cannot,
    without our lender s prior written consent, pay any
    dividend or make any distribution of assets to our shareholders
    or affiliates.

The Company did not repurchase any of its equity securities
    during Fiscal 2006.

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  

The following table sets forth certain information about the
    Company s common stock that may be issued upon the exercise
    of options, warrants and rights under all of the existing equity
    compensation plans as of September 2, 2006.

Number of Shares 

Weighted- 

Remaining Available 

Number of Shares to 

Average Exercise 

for Future Issuance 

be Issued Upon 

Price of 

Under Equity 

Exercise of 

Outstanding 

Compensation Plans 

Outstanding 

Options, 

(Excluding Shares 

Options, Warrants 

Warrants and 

Reflected in the 

Plan Category 

and Rights 

Rights 

First Column) 

Equity compensation plans approved
    by shareholders

1,336,975

$

4.80

836,045

Equity compensation plans not
    approved by shareholders

Total

1,336,975

$

4.80

836,045

20

Table of Contents   

Item 6.      

Selected
    Financial Data.   

Set forth below is selected financial data on a historical basis
    for the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries for the fiscal
    years ended September 2, 2006, and August 31, 2005,
    2004, 2003, and 2002. During fiscal year 2006, the Company
    changed its fiscal year end to a 52 or 53 week period
    ending on the Saturday closest to August 31. Fiscal year
    2006 ended on September 2, 2006. These results may not be
    indicative of future results. This information should be read in
    conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes
    to consolidated financial statements appearing in Part II,
    Item 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

(a)  

Fiscal 2006 includes a charge to cost of sales of approximately
    $1 million from to our change in accounting estimate
    relating to our inventory overhead calculations, which adversely
    impacted our gross profit by the same amount. 

(b)  

Fiscal 2005 includes an unusual net gain of $300,000 from the
    settlement of an outstanding claim against the seller of the AMO
    operations that we acquired in January 2003. 

21

Table of Contents   

(c)  

Fiscal 2004 unusual charges consisted of $894,000 in outside
    legal and accounting costs in connection with our litigation
    against, and other issues involving, Mr. Fant and $465,000
    of an asset impairment. Other income included $1,361,000 of
    judgment recovery against Mr. Fant and a $472,000 gain
    recognized in connection with the prepayment of a subordinated
    promissory note. 

(d)  

Fiscal 2003 unusual charges consisted of an impaired asset
    write-down of $331,000. Other expense included costs related to
    the non-cash write off of bank fees of $181,000 related to the
    terminated revolving line of credit with LaSalle Business
    Credit, LLC and a reserve of $841,000 for Mr. Fant s
    promissory note and other amounts due from Mr. Fant. 

(e)  

The write-off of the deferred tax asset established in 2001 and
    prior years which related to a minority interest, recorded under
    the equity method, resulted in a tax expense in 2002. 

Item 7.      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.   

CRITICAL
    ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

The accompanying consolidated financial statements are based on
    the selection and application of United States generally
    accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ), which require
    estimates and assumptions about future events that may affect
    the amounts reported in these financial statements and the
    accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be
    determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination
    of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results
    could differ from those estimates, and any such differences may
    be material to the financial statements. We believe that the
    following accounting policies may involve a higher degree of
    judgment and complexity in their application and represent the
    critical accounting policies used in the preparation of our
    financial statements. If different assumptions or conditions
    were to prevail, the results could be materially different from
    reported results.

Revenue
    recognition, sales returns and warranty  

Revenue for manufacturing and assembly contracts is generally
    recognized upon shipment to the customer which represents the
    point at which the risks of ownership have been transferred to
    the customer. We have one customer which requires that we retain
    ownership of inventory until it has been accepted by the
    customer. There are no additional obligations or other rights of
    return associated with this agreement. Accordingly, revenue for
    this arrangement is recognized upon acceptance by the customer.
    Our AMO provides service contracts for some of its products.
    Billings for services contracts are based on published renewal
    rates and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over
    the service period.

Our AMO s development contracts are discrete time and
    materials projects that generally do not involve separately
    priced deliverables. Development contract revenue is recognized
    ratably as development activities occur based on contractual per
    hour and material reimbursement rates. Development contracts are
    an interactive process with customers as different design and
    functionality is contemplated during the design phase. Upon
    reaching the contractual billing maximums, we defer revenue
    until contract extensions or purchase orders are received from
    customers. We occasionally have contractual arrangements in
    which part or all of the payment or billing is contingent upon
    achieving milestones or customer acceptance. For those contracts
    we evaluate whether the contract should be accounted using the
    completed contract method, as the term of the arrangement is
    short-term, or using the percentage of completion method for
    longer-term contracts. We may establish one or more contractual
    relationships with one customer that involves multiple
    deliverables including development, manufacturing and service.
    Each of these deliverables may be considered a separate unit of
    accounting and we evaluate if each element has sufficient
    evidence of fair value to allow separate revenue recognition. If
    we cannot separately account for the multiple elements in an
    arrangement, we may be required to account for the arrangement
    as one unit of accounting with recognition over an extended
    period of time or upon delivery of all of the contractual
    elements.

We record provisions against net sales for estimated product
    returns. These estimates are based on factors that include, but
    are not limited to, historical sales returns, analyses of credit
    memo activities, current economic trends and changes in the
    demands of our customers. Provisions are also recorded for
    warranty claims that are based on

22

Table of Contents   

historical trends and known warranty claims. Should actual
    product returns exceed estimated allowances, additional
    reductions to our net sales would result.

Allowance
    for Doubtful Accounts Estimation  

We estimate the collectability of trade receivables and note
    receivables, which requires a considerable amount of judgment in
    assessing the realization of these receivables, including the
    current credit-worthiness of each customer and related aging of
    the past due balances. In order to assess the collectability of
    these receivables, we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our
    customers  financial condition. Through these evaluations,
    we may become aware of a situation where a customer may not be
    able to meet its financial obligations due to deterioration of
    its financial viability, credit ratings or bankruptcy. The
    reserve requirements are based on the best facts available to us
    and reevaluated and adjusted as additional information is
    received. We are not able to predict changes in the financial
    condition of our customers and, if circumstances related to our
    customers deteriorate, our estimates of the recoverability of
    our receivables could be materially affected and we may be
    required to record additional allowances for uncollectible
    accounts. Alternatively, if we provide more allowances than we
    need, we may reverse a portion of such provisions in future
    periods based on changes in estimates from our actual collection
    experience.

Inventories  

We record inventories at the lower of cost or market value.
    Generally, all inventory purchases are for customized parts for
    customer specific programs. Contractual arrangements are
    typically agreed to with the customer prior to ordering
    customized parts as often times the parts cannot be consumed in
    other programs. Even though contractual arrangements may be in
    place, we are still required to assess the utilization of
    inventory. In assessing the ultimate realization of inventories,
    judgments as to future demand requirements are made and compared
    to the current or committed inventory levels and contractual
    inventory holding requirements. Reserve requirements generally
    increase as projected demand requirements decrease due to market
    conditions, technological and product life cycle changes as well
    as longer than previously expected usage periods. It is possible
    that significant charges to record inventory at the lower of
    cost or market may occur in the future if there is a further
    decline in market conditions.

Long-lived
    Assets  

We evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that
    indicate that the remaining estimated useful life of long-lived
    assets may warrant revision, or that the remaining balance of
    these assets may not be recoverable. When deemed necessary, we
    complete this evaluation by comparing the carrying amount of the
    assets against the estimated undiscounted future cash flows
    associated with them. If such evaluations indicate that the
    future undiscounted cash flows of long-lived assets are not
    sufficient to recover the carrying value of such assets, the
    assets are adjusted to their estimated fair values. We assess
    the impairment of our manufacturing equipment at least annually,
    or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
    carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors considered
    important which could trigger an impairment review, and
    potentially an impairment charge, include the following:

Significant underperformance relative to historical or projected
    future operating results;

Significant changes in the manner of use of our assets or our
    overall business strategy;

Significant negative market or economic trends; and

Significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period
    changing our market capitalization relative to our net book
    value.

In Fiscal 2004, our operating losses related to the assets in
    the Microelectronics group created a trigger event for further
    analysis of the recoverability of our long-lived assets in that
    group which included an independent valuation by a third-party.
    The Company utilized all of the accumulated information and
    determined that it was necessary to record an impairment charge
    of $465,000 in Fiscal 2004. Asset impairment evaluations are by
    nature highly subjective. There were no asset impairment charges
    in Fiscal 2006 or 2005.

23

Table of Contents   

Valuation
    of Deferred Taxes  

Significant management judgment is required in determining the
    provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities
    and any valuation allowance recorded against net deferred tax
    assets. We record a current provision for income taxes based on
    amounts payable or refundable. Deferred tax assets and
    liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences of
    differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
    existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases
    and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax
    assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
    expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those
    temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.
    The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in
    tax rates is recognized in the period that includes the
    enactment date. The overall change in deferred tax assets and
    liabilities for the period measures the deferred tax expense or
    benefit for the period. We recognize a valuation allowance for
    deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that
    deferred assets are not recoverable.

At September 2, 2006 and August 31, 2005, we had
    valuation allowances of approximately $9,821,000 and $7,195,000,
    respectively, because of uncertainties related to the ability to
    utilize certain Federal and state net loss carryforwards due to
    our historical losses and net tax operating loss carryforward
    position. The valuation allowance is based on estimates of
    taxable income by jurisdiction and the period over which our
    deferred tax assets are recoverable.

RESULTS
    OF OPERATIONS  

Percentage
    of Net Sales  

The following table illustrates the approximate percentage of
    our net sales by market served.

Net
    Sales  

Net sales for Fiscal 2006 were $52,631,000, a decrease of
    $4,000,000, or 7%, from net sales of $56,631,000 in Fiscal 2005.
    Our Microelectronic operations achieved sales of
    $34.7 million in Fiscal 2006 as compared to
    $33.4 million in Fiscal 2005 or an increase of
    $1.3 million or 4%. Sales at our AMO operations decreased
    from $23.2 million in Fiscal 2005 to $17.9 million in
    Fiscal 2006 or a $5.3 million or 23% decrease. At the
    Microelectronics unit, the primary reason for the increase was
    the increased production and output of flexible substrate
    materials at out Tempe facility which was facilitated by the
    addition of equipment during the fiscal year. At our AMO
    operations, the decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in
    design and development business which was a result of the
    termination of one program for one customer and the loss of
    contract software development projects with two other customers.

Net sales for Fiscal 2005 were $56,631,000, an increase of
    $13,311,000, or 31%, from net sales of $43,320,000 in Fiscal
    2004. This increase was driven by increases in sales in our
    primary markets of medical/hearing and

24

Table of Contents   

communications products and improvements in our manufacturing
    capabilities to produce and ship more products. Our
    Microelectronic operations achieved sales of $33.4 million
    in Fiscal 2005 as compared to $22.7 million in Fiscal 2004
    or an increase of $10.7 million or 47%. Sales at our AMO
    operations increased from $20.6 million in Fiscal 2004 to
    $23.2 million in Fiscal 2005 or $2.6 million or a 13%
    increase. The improvements in our manufacturing processes and
    growth in orders from existing customers were the primary
    drivers for the increases in sales at the Microelectronics unit.
    At our AMO operations, the increase in sales was due to
    increases in engineering and software related services for our
    customers.

Net sales to medical/hearing customers represented 78%, 81% and
    84% of total net sales for Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal
    2004, respectively. The decrease in Fiscal 2006 was a result of
    the shift to more communications products as existing customers
    increased their sales volumes resulting from further market
    acceptance of their products. On a percentage of net sales
    basis, there was an increase in net sales in Fiscal 2005
    compared to Fiscal 2004 which was a result of increased demand
    for implantable medical devices like cochlear implants, insulin
    pumps and defibrillators for our Microelectronics Operations
    year over year.

Net sales to the communications market increased to 14% of sales
    in Fiscal 2006 from 10% of sales in Fiscal 2005 or an increase
    of 40%, compared to 6% of sales in Fiscal 2004. The increase in
    both Fiscal 2006 over Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2005 over Fiscal
    2004 was the result of targeted marketing efforts initiated in
    prior years to focus on niche customers in these markets. Sales
    efforts to these customers resulted in incremental revenues in
    Fiscal 2006 and we benefited from a general expansion of the
    global communications markets in both comparative year over year
    periods.

Net sales to the Industrial markets include sales of RFID
    products. Sales in the Industrial area decreased to 8% of sales
    in Fiscal 2006 compared to 9% of sales in Fiscal 2005, or an 11%
    decrease in net sales. Sales in the industrial area increased to
    $4.0 million in Fiscal 2005 from $3.4 million in
    Fiscal 2004, or an 18% increase in net sales. This increase was
    driven by an increase in orders from a major customer as well as
    sales to several new customers as increased focus on this market
    resulted in improved sales opportunities. This smaller market
    segment is highly competitive and susceptible to offshore
    manufacturing once products gain market acceptance.

At September 2, 2006, our backlog of orders for revenue was
    approximately $14.9 million, compared to approximately
    $20.1 million and $18.2 million at August 31,
    2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect to ship our backlog as of
    September 2, 2006 during Fiscal 2007. This decrease in
    backlog is reflective of a change in the way our customers do
    business in that they no longer provide long-term purchase
    commitments to us. This shift has taken place over the past 3 to
    9 months in most of our divisions. Our backlog is not
    necessarily a firm commitment from our customers and can change,
    in some cases materially, beyond our control.

Because our sales are generally tied to the customers 
    projected sales and production of their products, our sales
    levels are subject to fluctuations beyond our control. To the
    extent that sales to any one customer represent a significant
    portion of our sales, any change in the sales levels to that
    customer can have a significant impact on our total sales. In
    addition, production for one customer may conclude while
    production for a new customer has not yet begun or is not yet at
    full volume. These factors may result in significant
    fluctuations in sales from quarter to quarter and year over year.

Gross
    Profit  

Our gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 15% in Fiscal
    2006 as compared with 20% in Fiscal 2005, as compared to 10% in
    Fiscal 2004. The decline in gross margin in Fiscal 2006 compared
    to Fiscal 2005 was a result of a shift in sales mix at our AMO
    division which resulted in a higher percentage of lower margin
    manufacturing revenues compared to higher margin design and
    development and verification and validation contracts. In
    addition, our fixed overhead costs were structured at higher
    levels in anticipation of significantly higher sales volumes
    than were actually achieved. Cost reductions were made in the
    later part of Fiscal 2006, but not in time to show a material
    impact on the gross margins. During Fiscal 2006, the Company
    changed its estimates for the calculation of inventory carrying
    costs relating to the computation of overhead associated with
    its inventory categories. Specifically, the Company believes
    that its prior estimates, which included significant allocations
    of quality control costs in the computations, were no longer
    representative of the costs associated with its current
    inventory make up. The change in estimate was further supported
    by the change in the Company s product mix and resulting
    inventory

25

Table of Contents   

make up, expanding regulatory and compliance nature of the
    Company s quality control function and the shift to a
    business unit configuration for the company compared to a
    previously corporate-centralized configuration for our
    operations. The Company believes that this change in estimate is
    more representative of our changing inventory make up during the
    last fiscal year. The change in estimate resulted in a
    $1 million reduction in inventory carrying costs as of
    September 2, 2006 and adversely impacted our gross margin
    in Fiscal 2006 by approximately $1 million.

During Fiscal 2004, the Microelectronics Operations experienced
    production difficulties that resulted in shipment delays,
    excessive overtime costs and unabsorbed manufacturing overhead.
    The production delays were due to the number of new programs
    initiated at the same time and the increased complexities of
    many of the new product offerings. A number of initiatives to
    correct these problems were implemented in Fiscal 2005 and as a
    result, we realized improved yields, reduced scrap, and reduced
    overtime in our manufacturing department. Another primary reason
    for the improvement in our profit margins during Fiscal 2005 was
    that we were able to reduce the time to manufacture products
    during the year and thereby spread our fixed manufacturing costs
    over a larger amount of products.

Our gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 20% in Fiscal
    2005 as compared with 10% in Fiscal 2004. During Fiscal 2004,
    the Microelectronics Operations experienced production
    difficulties that resulted in shipment delays, excessive
    overtime costs and unabsorbed manufacturing overhead. The
    production delays were due to the number of new programs
    initiated at the same time and the increased complexities of
    many of the new product offerings. A number of initiatives to
    correct these problems were implemented in Fiscal 2005 and as a
    result, we realized improved yields, reduced scrap, and reduced
    overtime in our manufacturing department. Another primary reason
    for the improvement in our profit margins during Fiscal 2005 was
    that we were able to reduce the time to manufacture products
    during the year and thereby spread our fixed manufacturing costs
    over a larger amount of products.

Our gross margins are heavily impacted by fluctuations in net
    sales, due to the fixed nature of many of our manufacturing
    costs, and by the mix of products manufactured in any particular
    quarter. In addition, the start up of new customer programs
    could adversely impact our margins as we implement the complex
    processes involved in the design and manufacture of ultra
    miniature microelectronic devices. We anticipate that our gross
    profit margins will remain relatively constant and start to
    improve over the next fiscal year. We continue to work to
    improve our process which we believe will enable us to see
    improved gross profit margins in the future.

Operating
    Expenses  

Selling,
    general and administrative   

Selling, general and administrative expenses in total were 17%
    of net sales in Fiscal 2006, compared to 15% and 19% in Fiscal
    2005 and Fiscal 2004, respectively. Selling, general and
    administrative costs were higher as a percentage and in actual
    dollars as a result of expanded expenses in anticipation of
    significantly higher sales volumes in all of our divisions. The
    increased sales volumes were not achieved and expenses were not
    adjusted in time to compensate for the change in estimated
    revenues and profitability. The expenses were not adjusted down
    until late in the fiscal year. In addition, in Fiscal 2006, we
    recorded a non-cash expense of approximately $503,000 relating
    to charges for stock based compensation under SFAS 123(R),
     Share-Based Payment  that is now required to be
    recorded in the financial statements when in the prior year, the
    expense was disclosed only in the footnotes to the financial
    statements. In Fiscal 2005, the decrease in selling, general and
    administrative costs as a percentage of sales was due to the
    significant increase in revenue in Fiscal 2005 which was
    achieved while expense remained relatively the same as in Fiscal
    2004. Selling, general and administrative expenses in Fiscal
    2006 increased $580,000 when compared to Fiscal 2005 growing to
    $8,963,000 from $8,383,000.

Research,
    development, and engineering expenses   

Research, development, and engineering expenses were $4,238,000
    in Fiscal 2006 as compared to $3,264,000 in Fiscal 2005 or an
    increase of $974,000. Fiscal 2004 expenses were $3,165,000 or an
    increase of $99,000 in Fiscal 2005. These increases reflect
    additional engineering activities to improve manufacturing
    processes and design and development work associated with new
    customer programs. As a percentage of net sales, research,
    development and engineering expenses increased to 8% of sales
    from 6% in Fiscal 2005 and compared to 7% of sales in Fiscal
    2004.

26

Table of Contents   

We expect that research, development and engineering costs to be
    reduced as a percentage of revenues in Fiscal 2007 as we
    continue to realign our engineering activities to meet our
    customer and internal needs.

Gain
    on Settlement   

During the third quarter of Fiscal 2005, we entered into a
    settlement agreement related to an outstanding claim against the
    seller of the AMO operations that we acquired in January 2003.
    The net effect of this settlement, after offsetting legal and
    other related costs, was a gain of $300,000. All the cash
    related to this settlement was received in the third quarter of
    Fiscal 2005.

Asset
    Impairment Charges   

Our evaluation, in Fiscal 2004, of the historical losses from
    our Microelectronics group created a trigger for further
    impairment analysis. Our long-lived assets relating to our
    Microelectronics operations were valued by an independent
    third-party valuation firm and resulted in an impairment charge
    of $465,000 in Fiscal 2004. There were no such impairment
    charges in Fiscal 2006 or Fiscal 2005.

Costs
    relating to Investigation and Litigation Recovery   

The litigation recovery income of $1,361,000 in Fiscal 2004 was
    offset by $894,000 in legal and professional fees for the
    special investigation of the activities of Mr. Fant, our
    former Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman. The
    Company had an additional recovery from Mr. Fant in Fiscal
    2005 in the amount of $481,000.

Gain on
    Prepayment of Promissory Note  

At the time of our AMO acquisition in January 2003 CMED, the
    seller, funded a subordinated promissory note. On May 8,
    2003 the subordinated promissory note was sold by CMED to a
    third party for $1,820,000. The agreement continued with the
    same terms as the original agreement with CMED until
    August 15, 2003. To encourage early repayment, the terms of
    the Subordinated Promissory Note were modified on May 16,
    2003 and on September 12, 2003. On October 15, 2003,
    we prepaid the Subordinated Promissory Note for a discount on
    the principal amount outstanding of $360,000, the payment of
    accrued interest totaling $167,000 with 47,700 unregistered
    common shares of HEI stock valued at $3.50 per share and
    forgiveness of interest from September 15, 2003 through
    October 15, 2003. As a result of the prepayment of the
    Subordinated Promissory Note, the Company recognized a gain on
    the early extinguishment of the Subordinated Promissory Note
    totaling $472,000 during the first quarter of Fiscal 2004.

Interest
    Expense  

Interest expense for Fiscal 2006 was $776,000 as compared with
    $667,000 in Fiscal 2005 and $364,000 in Fiscal 2004. The
    increase in interest expense in Fiscal 2006 was due to added
    borrowing relating to capital leases initiated in Fiscal 2006
    and additional borrowing under the revolving credit agreements
    as a result of operating losses sustained during Fiscal 2006.
    The increase in interest expense in Fiscal 2005 compared to
    Fiscal 2004 was due to higher average borrowing levels
    associated with funding the growth in our working capital
    requirements. As a result of the increase in sales levels in
    Fiscal 2005, we increased both accounts receivable and
    inventories, which were funded by additional borrowings on our
    Credit Agreement. For Fiscal 2007, we expect our interest
    expense to increase compared to Fiscal 2006 due to the higher
    interest rate on the Note from our Chairman of the Board that
    replaced one of our revolving credit agreements subsequent to
    the close of Fiscal 2006.

Income
    Tax Expense (Benefit)  

We did not record a tax provision in Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2005 or
    Fiscal 2004 since we have unutilized net operating loss
    carryforwards from prior years which will be utilized to offset
    taxes associated with income in future years. We have
    established a valuation allowance to fully reserve the deferred
    tax assets because of uncertainties related to our ability to
    utilize certain federal and state loss carryforwards as measured
    by GAAP. The economic benefits of our net operating loss
    carryforwards to future years will continue until expired.

27

Table of Contents   

At the end of Fiscal 2006, we had net operating loss
    carryforwards of approximately $23.1 million, expiring at
    various dates ranging from 2012 through 2026. Though valuation
    allowances have been established, we still retain all the
    economic benefits of the net operating loss in future years.

Deemed
    Dividend on Preferred Stock  

On May 9, 2005 we completed the sale of 130,538 shares
    of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Each share of
    the Preferred Stock is immediately convertible into ten shares
    of common stock. Because the Preferred Stock was issued at a
    discount to the market price on the date of issue and because it
    is immediately convertible into common stock, we were required
    to record a deemed dividend on preferred stock in our financial
    statements for the year ended August 31, 2005. This
    non-cash dividend is to reflect the implied economic value to
    the preferred shareholders of being able to convert their shares
    into common stock at a discounted price. In order to determine
    the dividend value, we allocated the proceeds of the offering
    between preferred stock and the common stock warrants that were
    issued as part of the offering based on their relative fair
    values. The fair value allocated to the warrants of $850,000 was
    recorded as equity. The fair value allocated to the preferred
    stock of $2,550,000 together with the original conversion terms
    were used to calculate the value of the deemed dividend on the
    preferred stock of $1,072,000 at the date of issuance of the
    preferred stock. This amount has been charged to accumulated
    deficit with the offsetting credit to additional
     paid-in-capital. 
    The deemed dividend on preferred stock is a reconciling item on
    the statement of operations to adjust reported net income (loss)
    to  net income (loss) available to common
    shareholders. 

FINANCIAL
    CONDITION  

Our net cash flow used in operating activities for Fiscal 2006
    was $2,648,000 compared to cash flow used in operating
    activities of $2,956,000 for Fiscal 2005. The use of cash in
    operations in Fiscal 2006 was driven by the $6,057,000 net
    loss sustained by the Company during Fiscal 2006. Reductions in
    accruals in the normal course of business also impacted our net
    cash flow used in operations. In Fiscal 2005, the primary
    factors affecting net cash flow used in operations was an
    increase of $2,544,000 of accounts receivable and an increase of
    $1,257,000 of inventory. Both of these increases were due to the
    31% growth in our revenues in Fiscal 2005 over Fiscal 2004. Also
    in Fiscal 2005, we paid down accounts payable and accrued
    liabilities during the year which required the use of cash and
    caused us to increase the use of our line of credit. In Fiscal
    2006 we generated a net loss of $6,057,000 as compared with net
    income of $355,000 in Fiscal 2005, and compared with a net loss
    of $7,009,000 in Fiscal 2004.

Our net cash flow provided by (used in) investing activities was
    $149,000, ($1,249,000) and ($479,000) for Fiscal 2006, Fiscal
    2005 and Fiscal 2004, respectively. We spent $977,000,
    $1,404,000 and $827,000 on capital expenditures and patent costs
    in Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004, respectively.
    Spending on capital expenditures was funded through the use of
    debt and capital leases. The capital expenditures relate to
    facility improvements and purchases of manufacturing equipment
    to enhance our production capabilities, capacity and quality
    control systems. In Fiscal 2006, we had a refund of a security
    deposit from our facility at our AMO division which provided
    approximately $1,000,000 in additional cash flow to the Company.
    We generated $323,000 in Fiscal 2004 from the sale of technology.

Our net cash flow from financing activities in Fiscal 2006 was
    $2,822,000 and was primarily related to net borrowing under our
    line of credit of $3,385,000 which was used to offset operating
    losses. We also repaid $749,000 in long-term debt during Fiscal
    2006. In addition to these financing activities, we also
    utilized $2,314,000 in non-cash capital lease financing to
    acquire equipment. Our net cash flow from financing activities
    in Fiscal 2005 was $4,356,000 and was primarily related to cash
    proceeds from the issuance of Series A Convertible
    Preferred Stock during the year. This offering generated net
    proceeds of $3,162,000 for the Company. We also generated cash
    through additional borrowings on our line of credit of
    $1,253,000 and by the repayments on notes from officers and
    former directors of $228,000. During Fiscal 2005 we repaid
    $381,000 on our long-term debt. In addition to these financing
    activities, we also utilized non-cash capital lease financing to
    acquire $442,000 of equipment. Our net cash flow generated from
    financing activities in Fiscal 2004 was $3,810,000 and was
    primarily related to cash proceeds from issuance of common stock
    for $3,374,000 and the collection of officer notes of $170,000.

28

Table of Contents   

The result of these activities was an increase in cash of
    $323,000 in Fiscal 2006 as compared with an increase in cash of
    $151,000 in Fiscal 2005, as compared with decreases in cash of
    $606,000 during Fiscal 2004. At the end of Fiscal 2006 our cash
    balance was $674,000.

Accounts receivable average days outstanding were 64 days
    at September 2, 2006, compared to 55 and 55 days at
    August 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Inventory turns
    were 5.9, 6.0 and 5.6 for Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal
    2004, respectively. The inventory turns for Fiscal 2006 were
    impacted by the change in estimate for inventory carrying costs
    during the year which reduced the comparable inventory balances.

The Company s current ratio at the end of Fiscal 2006 was
    1.3:1 as compared to 1.9:1 and 1.3:1 at the end of Fiscal 2005
    and Fiscal 2004, respectively. The decrease in Fiscal 2006 was
    due to additional borrowings under the line of credit and a
    reduction in security deposit that was refunded to the Company
    during Fiscal 2006 and reduction in inventory carrying costs
    which resulted from a change in estimate of the inventory
    overhead calculations as of September 2, 2006. The
    improvement in Fiscal 2005 was due to the growth of the business
    which required increases in accounts receivable and inventory.
    During Fiscal 2005, the working capital growth was funded by the
    issuance of stock during the year. For Fiscal 2004, the current
    ratio was impacted by larger growth in accounts payable compared
    to accounts receivable, increase in the line of credit and the
    growth in accrued liabilities and other current assets due to
    the deferral of net sales and the related cost of goods sold. As
    of September 2, 2006 our current liabilities included
    $5,948,000 in line of credit borrowings and $1,038,000 in
    current maturities of long-term debt. In addition, we had
    long-term debt of $2,824,000 and shareholders equity of
    $8,864,000. Subsequent to the end of Fiscal 2006, the Company
    refinanced a portion of its revolving line of credit with a one
    year term loan from its Chairman of the Board. Both the previous
    revolving line of credit and the new term loan are categorized
    as current liabilities for the calculation of the current ratio.

TERM-DEBT  

Long-term
    debt  

During our fiscal years ended September 2, 2006,
    August 31, 2005 and August 31, 2004, we have
    undertaken a number of activities to restructure our term-debt.
    The following is a summary of those transactions:

At the beginning of Fiscal 2004, we repaid our outstanding
    subordinated promissory note by obtaining two separate loans in
    the aggregate amount of $2,350,000 under new Term Loan
    Agreements with Commerce Bank, a Minnesota state banking
    association, and its affiliate, Commerce Financial Group, Inc.,
    a Minnesota corporation. The first note, with Commerce Bank, in
    the amount of $1,200,000 was executed on October 14, 2003.
    This note is secured by our Victoria, Minnesota facility. The
    term of the first note is six years. The original interest rate
    on this note was a nominal rate of 6.50% per annum for the
    first three years, and thereafter the interest rate will be
    adjusted on the first date of the fourth loan year to a nominal
    rate per annum equal to the then Three Year Treasury Base Rate
    (as defined) plus 3.00%; provided, however, that in no event
    will the interest rate be less than the Prime Rate plus 1.0% per
    annum. Monthly payment of principal and interest will be based
    on a twenty-year amortization with a final payment of
    approximately $1,048,000 due on November 1, 2009. The
    second note, with Commerce Financial Group, Inc., in the amount
    of $1,150,000 was executed on October 28, 2003. The second
    note is secured by our Victoria facility and equipment located
    at our Tempe facility. The term of the second note is four
    years. The original interest rate on this note was
    8.975% per year through September 27, 2007. Monthly
    payments of principal and interest in the amount of $28,000 are
    paid over a forty-eight month period beginning on
    October 28, 2003.

During the first quarter of Fiscal 2005, we violated two
    covenants of these term loan agreements. As a result, on
    December 3, 2004, we entered into waivers and amendments
    with Commerce Bank and Commerce Financial Group, Inc.,
    respectively, effective as of November 30, 2004 and
    December 29, 2004, to address actual and potential covenant
    violations. The waivers and amendments on December 3, 2004
    increased the interest rate to be paid under the Commerce Bank
    note beginning March 1, 2005, to and including
    October 31, 2006, from 6.5% to 7.5%, and increased the
    interest rate to be paid under the Commerce Financial Group,
    Inc. note beginning March 1, 2005, to and including
    September 28, 2007, from 8.975% to 9.975%.

29

Table of Contents   

The Company was not in compliance with the debt service coverage
    ratio requirement of these two agreements as of May 27,
    2006 and continuing through the end of Fiscal 2006. On
    June 21, 2006, we entered into a Waiver and Amendment dated
    effective May 27, 2006 (the  Commerce Bank
    Amendment ) to waive and amend certain provisions of The
    Commerce Bank Term Loan Agreement dated October 14, 2003,
    as amended by the Waiver and Amendment dated as of
    November 30, 2004, the Waiver and Amendment dated as of
    December 29, 2004 and the Promissory Note dated
    October 14, 2003. The Commerce Bank Amendment, among other
    things: (i) waived the Company s compliance with the
    Debt Service Coverage Ratio covenant in the Commerce Bank Loan
    Agreement for the period up to the Company s reporting
    period ending August 31, 2006 and (ii) amended the
    Commerce Bank Loan Agreement to re-establish the $100,000
    Payment Reserve Account. Also on June 21, 2006, the Company
    entered into a Waiver and Amendment (the  Commerce
    Financial Group Amendment ) to waive and amend certain
    provisions of The Commerce Financial Group Term Loan Agreement
    dated October 28, 2003, as amended by the Waiver and
    Amendment dated as of November 30, 2004, the Waiver and
    Amendment dated as of December 29, 2004 and the Promissory
    Note dated October 28, 2003. The Commerce Financial Group
    Amendment, among other things: (i) waived the
    Company s compliance with the Debt Service Coverage Ratio
    covenant in the Commerce Financial Group Loan Agreement for the
    period up to the Company s reporting period ending
    August 31, 2006 and (ii) amended the Commerce
    Financial Group Loan Agreement to re-establish the $25,000
    payment reserve account. Due to the loss generated in Fiscal
    2006, the Company will not be in compliance with its debt
    service coverage ratio covenant until the end of Fiscal 2007,
    when the Company anticipates being in compliance. The Company
    will work with the lender to receive any needed interim period
    waivers. However, if the Company is unable to obtain waivers
    during the future periods of non-compliance, it is possible that
    the lender could require the repayment of the outstanding
    principle balances under the Term Loan Agreements, which would
    have an adverse affect on the Company s ability to meets
    its financial obligations in the normal course of business.

During Fiscal 2006, the Company entered into several capital
    lease agreements to fund the acquisition of machinery and
    equipment, primarily at our Tempe facility. Most of these leases
    were entered into with Commerce Financial Group and are secured
    by the equipment being leased and a secured interest in our
    Victoria building. The total principal amount of these leases is
    $2,300,000 with an average effective interest rate of 12.5%.
    These agreements are for 36 to 45 months with reduced
    payments in the last year of the lease. At the end of the lease
    we have the option to purchase the equipment for $1 or at an
    agreed upon value which is generally not less than 15% nor
    greater than 20% of the original equipment cost.

Also on June 21, 2006, the Company entered into a Waiver
    (the  Waiver ) to waive and amend certain provisions
    of its Master Equipment Lease No. 0512231 (the  Master
    Lease ) dated as of December 23, 2005 with Commerce
    Leasing Corporation (the  Lessor ), a division of
    Commerce Financial Group, Inc.; those lease commitments by the
    Lessor for the benefit of the Company dated as of
    December 5, 2005, December 8, 2005, February 23,
    2006 and February 24, 2006 (collectively, the
     Commitments  and those supplements (the
     Supplements ) to the Master Lease in favor of the
    Lessor (the Master Lease, Commitments and Supplements are
    collectively the  Lease ). The Waiver, among other
    things: (i) waived the Company s compliance with the
    Debt Service Coverage Ratio covenant in the Lease for the period
    up to the Company s reporting period ending August 31,
    2006 and (ii) amended the Lease to increase by 2% the
    implied economic interest rate for each Supplement under the
    Master Lease and to adjust the monthly rental payments for the
    Supplements accordingly until the Company is in compliance with
    the covenants in the Lease.

During Fiscal 2005, the Company entered into several capital
    lease agreements to fund the acquisition of machinery and
    equipment. The total principal amount of these leases is
    $442,000 with an average effective interest rate of 16%. These
    agreements are for three years with reduced payment terms over
    the life of the lease. At the end of the lease, we have the
    option to purchase the equipment at an agreed upon value which
    is generally approximately 20% of the original equipment cost.
    However, this amount may be reduced to 15% if our equity
    increases by $4,000,000 within 18 months of the date of
    these leases.

Short-term
    debt  

Since early in Fiscal 2003, we had an accounts receivable
    agreement (the  Credit Agreement ) with Beacon Bank of
    Shorewood, Minnesota. The initial term of the Credit Agreement
    expired September 1, 2006 and was automatically extended by
    six months. The Credit Agreement provides for a maximum amount
    of credit $5,000,000

30

Table of Contents   

and is an accounts receivable backed facility and is
    additionally secured by inventory, intellectual property and
    other general intangibles. The Credit Agreement is not subject
    to any restrictive financial covenants. At Fiscal 2006 year
    end we had a maximum of approximately $550,000 available under
    the Credit Agreement, with the actual borrowings based on 90% of
    eligible accounts receivable. The balance on the line of credit
    was $3,948,000 and $2,563,000 as of September 2, 2006 and
    August 31, 2005, respectively. The Credit Agreement as
    amended on July 7, 2005 bears an interest rate of Prime
    plus 2.75%. There is also an immediate discount of .85% for
    processing. The effective borrowing rate is approximately 11% as
    of September 2, 2006. Borrowings are reduced as collections
    and payments are received into a lock box by the bank. As of the
    September 2, 2006, the Company was in compliance with all
    covenants of the Credit Agreement.

In April 2006, the Company entered into a supplemental
    $2,000,000 revolving line of credit with Beacon Bank that is
    secured by a portion of our inventory and our foreign accounts
    receivable and guaranteed by the Small Business Administration
    (the  Line of Credit ). The Line of Credit expires in
    April 2007, but has an acceleration clause in the event of
    default. Borrowings under the Line of Credit bear an interest
    rate of Prime plus 2.75% and a processing fee of .65%. The
    effective borrowing rate as of September 2, 2006 was
    approximately 11%. As of September 2, 2006, the balance
    outstanding on the Line of Credit was $2,000,000. The Company is
    in compliance with all covenants of the Line of Credit.

Subsequent to the end of Fiscal 2006, the Company paid off the
    Credit Agreement with Beacon Bank and replaced the funding
    through a $5,000,000 one-year term loan (the  Note )
    from Thomas F. Leahy, the Company s Chairman of the Board.
    The new term loan was undertaken to provide the Company with the
    opportunity to establish a relationship with a new asset-based
    lender during Fiscal 2007 and not a result of any default under
    terms of the Credit Agreement. The loan requires the Company to
    pay monthly installments of interest, and is due and payable on
    November 2, 2007. The unpaid principal of the Note can be
    repaid at any time without prepayment penalty or premium. Unpaid
    principal due under the Note bears interest at the rate of
    fifteen percent (15%) per annum, commencing on November 3,
    2006 with such interest rate increasing by one percent (1%) each
    calendar month, beginning January 1, 2007, up to a maximum
    of twenty percent (20%) per annum. There are no covenants
    associated with the loan.

31

Table of Contents   

FISCAL
    2006 LIQUIDITY  

We generated a net loss in Fiscal 2006 of $6,057,000, net income
    in Fiscal 2005 of $355,000 and a net loss of $7,009,000 in
    Fiscal 2004. The increase in sales in Fiscal 2005 compared to
    Fiscal 2004 was expected to continue during Fiscal 2006. As a
    result, our costs were structured to support the higher level of
    anticipated sales including selling, general and administrative
    costs and research, development and engineering costs. The
    higher sales levels were not achieved and cost reductions were
    not implemented until late in Fiscal 2006, which had little to
    no impact in reducing the operating loss for the fiscal year. In
    addition, a change in the sales mix at our RFID and AMO
    divisions reduced the overall gross margin contribution on the
    sales that were achieved. During Fiscal year 2006, the operating
    losses were funded in part by the refund of the security deposit
    on our AMO facility in the amount of $1.35 million (net of
    additional security deposits on other debt of $320,000) and
    additional borrowing under our lines of credit of
    $3.4 million. The sustained operating losses during Fiscal
    2006 have generated a significant strain on our cash resources.

We have historically financed our operations through the public
    and private sale of debt and equity securities, bank borrowings
    under lines of credit, operating equipment leases and cash
    generated by operations. In Fiscal 2004, we entered into two
    separate loans in the aggregate amount of $2,350,000 which
    enabled us to prepay a high cost subordinated promissory note
    assumed in the acquisition of our AMO business and which
    provided cash for operations. On February 13, 2004, we sold
    1,180,000 shares of our common stock which generated net
    proceeds of $3.2 million. On May 9, 2005, we sold
    130,538 shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred
    Stock which provided net proceeds of $3.2 million to the
    Company. These actions, together with improved operating results
    during Fiscal 2005, enabled us to fund working capital
    requirements, acquire manufacturing equipment and expand our
    Credit Agreement. The expansion included increasing the
    borrowing capacity to $5,000,000 while reducing the interest
    rate and improving other terms and conditions of the facility.
    The initial term of the Credit Agreement expired
    September 1, 2006 and was automatically extended by six
    months.

In April 2006, the Company entered into a supplemental
    $2,000,000 revolving line of credit with Beacon Bank that is
    secured by a portion of our inventory and our foreign accounts
    receivable and guaranteed by the Small Business Administration
    (the  Line of Credit ). The Line of Credit expires in
    April 2007. Borrowings under the Line of Credit bear an interest
    rate of Prime plus 2.75% and a processing fee of .65%. The
    effective borrowing rate as of September 2, 2006 was
    approximately 11%. As of September 2, 2006, the balance
    outstanding on the Line of Credit was $2,000,000. The Company
    was in compliance with all covenants of the Line of Credit as of
    September 2, 2006.

As a result of these events, at September 2, 2006 our
    sources of liquidity consisted of $674,000 of cash and cash
    equivalents and approximately $550,000 of borrowing capacity
    under our Credit Agreement. Our liquidity, however, is affected
    by many factors, some of which are based on the normal ongoing
    operations of our business, the most significant of which
    include the timing of the collection of receivables, the level
    of inventories and capital expenditures.

Beginning in mid-Fiscal 2006, the Company began efforts to
    change its cost structures and operating structures in an effort
    to reduce costs and begin to focus more heavily on the
    operational performance of each of our divisions. The most
    significant change was to shift from a centralized management of
    our divisions to setting up a general manager for each of our
    operations. Some additional cost reductions were further
    undertaken at our Victoria and Chanhassen facilities towards the
    end of Fiscal 2006. The impacts of these changes along with the
    reduction of overall sales levels were not adequate to move the
    Company to a level of profitability by the end of the fiscal
    year.

Beginning in Fiscal 2007, the Company hired a new Chief
    Executive Officer, who was the Company s Chief Financial
    Officer and continues to fulfill that dual role, to provide
    additional focus on cost structures and operational
    improvements. Additional cost reductions have already been
    initiated in addition to operational improvement initiatives at
    each of our divisions. Revised operating budgets have been
    established to allow us to focus our efforts on our operating
    activity and expenses and to improve gross margins and minimize
    costs. Our focus will include:

Expanding our sales efforts to existing customers and to find
    new customers for our products. We will accomplish this through
    the restructuring of our sales staff in Boulder and Victoria and
    by adding an additional sales person to support our flexible
    substrate business in Tempe.

32

Table of Contents   

Focusing on gross margin improvements at all divisions. We will
    accomplish this by focusing on our costs and looking at all
    areas for improvements including material costs, labor costs and
    overhead structures.

Structuring our staffing to work within our current sales levels
    for all of our general and administrative costs and engineering
    costs, and to reorganize the staff as necessary to position the
    Company for growth.

Pursuing additional sublease tenants for the excess space in our
    Boulder facility while allowing for adequate room for expansion
    in that division. This will help to offset a portion of the
    operating costs and lease costs of that facility.

Refinancing our debt to improve cash flow. To that end,
    subsequent to the end of Fiscal 2006, the Company paid off the
    Credit Agreement with Beacon Bank and replaced the funding
    through a $5,000,000 one-year term secured loan from Thomas F.
    Leahy, the Company s Chairman of the Board. The new term
    loan was undertaken to provide the Company with the opportunity
    to establish a relationship with a new asset-based lender during
    Fiscal 2007. This transaction allowed the Company to have direct
    access again to the collection of its accounts receivables,
    which should reduce the days outstanding and improve cash flow
    from collections. In addition, the loan provided additional
    future working capital of approximately $1.8 million after
    the Credit Agreement was repaid and current working capital was
    funded.

Reduction in inventories by reviewing buying procedures and
    reducing any excess on hand inventory while maintaining the
    required inventories to meet customer demand. These initiatives
    are targeted to reduce inventories by $1 million by the end
    of Fiscal 2007.

During Fiscal 2007, we intend to spend approximately
    $1.0 million for manufacturing equipment which we expect to
    expand our manufacturing capacity and our technological
    capabilities in order to meet the expanding needs of our
    customers. It is expected that these expenditures will be funded
    from existing cash, cash generated from operations, lease
    financing and available debt financing for the next
    12 months.

The Company is currently in violation of its debt service
    coverage ratio covenant under its loan and lease agreements with
    Commerce Bank and Commerce Financial. The Company has received
    waivers for the covenant violations as of the end of Fiscal
    2006, but will need to receive waivers for at least a portion of
    Fiscal 2007 from the lender. The debt service coverage ratio is
    calculated using a rolling 12 month EBITDA (earnings before
    interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) calculation
    divided by the rolling 12 month principle and interest
    payments on debt. Due to the loss generated in Fiscal 2006, the
    Company will not be in compliance with its debt service coverage
    ratio covenant until the end of Fiscal 2007, when the Company
    anticipates being in compliance. Due to the loss generated in
    Fiscal 2006, the Company will not be in compliance with its debt
    service coverage ratio covenant until the end of Fiscal 2007,
    when the Company anticipates being in compliance. The Company
    will work with the lender to receive any needed interim period
    waivers. However, if the Company is unable to obtain waivers
    during the future periods of non-compliance, it is possible that
    the lender could require the repayment of the outstanding
    principle balances under the Term Loan Agreements, which would
    have an adverse affect on the Company s ability to meets
    its financial obligations in the normal course of business.

In the event future cash flows and borrowing capacities are not
    sufficient to fund operations at the present level, additional
    measures will be taken including efforts to further reduce
    expenditure levels such as reduction of spending for research
    and development, engineering, elimination of budgeted raises,
    and reduction of non-strategic employees and the deferral or
    elimination of capital expenditures. In addition, we believe
    that other sources of liquidity are available including issuance
    of the Company s stock, the expansion of our credit
    facilities and the issuance of long-term debt.

Management believes that existing, current and future lending
    capacity and cash generated from operations will supply
    sufficient cash flow to meet short-term and long-term debt
    obligations, working capital, capital expenditure and operating
    requirements during the next 12 months.

Off
    Balance Sheet Arrangements  

We do not have any off balance sheet arrangements.

33

Table of Contents   

Contractual
    Obligations  

Our contractual cash obligations at September 2, 2006, are
    summarized in the following table:

New
    Accounting Pronouncements  

The FASB has published FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48
    (FIN No. 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes, to address the noncomparability in reporting tax assets
    and liabilities resulting from a lack of specific guidance in
    FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS)
    No. 109 (SFAS No. 109), Accounting for Income
    Taxes, on the uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an
    enterprise s financial statements. Specifically,
    FIN No. 48 prescribes (a) a consistent
    recognition threshold and (b) a measurement attribute for
    the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax
    position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return, and
    provides related guidance on derecognition, classification,
    interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods,
    disclosure, and transition. FIN No. 48 will apply to
    fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, with
    earlier adoption permitted. The Company does not expect the
    adoption of FIN No. 48 to have a material effect on
    its consolidated financial statements.

In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
    issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 108,  Considering the
    Effects on Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying
    Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements, 
    ( SAB 108 ). SAB 108 requires registrants to
    quantify errors using both the income statement method (i.e.
    iron curtain method) and the rollover method and requires
    adjustment if either method indicates a material error. If a
    correction in the current year relating to prior year errors is
    material to the current year, then the prior year financial
    information needs to be corrected. A correction to the prior
    year results that are not material to those years, would not
    require a  restatement process  where prior financials
    would be amended. SAB 108 is effective for fiscal years
    ending after November 15, 2006. We do not anticipate that
    SAB 108 will have a material effect on our financial
    position, results of operations or cash flows.

Item 7A.      

Qualitative
    and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk.   

Market
    Risk  

We do not have material exposure to market risk from
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates because all
    sales are denominated in U.S. dollars.

Interest
    Rate Risk  

In April 2006, the Company entered into a supplemental
    $2,000,000 revolving line of credit with Beacon Bank that is
    secured by a portion of our inventory and our foreign accounts
    receivable and guaranteed by the Small Business Administration
    (the  Line of Credit ). The Line of Credit expires on
    April 17, 2007 but has an acceleration clause in the event
    of default. Borrowings under the Line of Credit bear an interest
    rate of Prime plus 2.75% and a processing fee of .65%. The
    effective borrowing rate as of September 2, 2006 was
    approximately 11%. As of September 2, 2006, the balance
    outstanding on the Line of Credit was $2,000,000.

We are exposed to a floating interest rate risk from our term
    credit note with Commerce Bank, a Minnesota state banking
    association and on our credit agreement with Beacon Bank. The
    Commerce Bank note, in the amount of $1,200,000, was executed on
    October 14, 2003 and has a floating interest rate. The term
    of this note is six years with interest at a nominal rate of
    6.50% per annum until October 31, 2006. Thereafter the
    interest rate will be

34

Table of Contents   

adjusted to a nominal rate per annum equal to the then Three
    Year Treasury Base Rate (as defined) plus 3.00%; provided,
    however, that in no event will the interest rate be less than
    the Prime Rate plus 1.0% per annum. Monthly payments of
    principal and interest are based on a twenty-year amortization
    with a final payment of approximately $1,048,000 due on
    November 1, 2009.

The Beacon Bank Credit Agreement provides for a maximum amount
    of credit of $5,000,000. The Credit Agreement is an accounts
    receivable backed facility and is additionally secured by
    inventory, intellectual property and other general intangibles.
    The Credit Agreement is not subject to any restrictive financial
    covenants. At September 2, 2006, we had a maximum of
    approximately $550,000 available under the Credit Agreement,
    with the actual borrowings based on 90% of eligible accounts
    receivable. The balance on the line of credit was $3,948,000 and
    $2,563,000 as of September 2, 2006 and August 31,
    2005, respectively. The Credit Agreement as amended on
    July 7, 2005 bears an interest rate of Prime plus 2.75%.
    There is also an immediate discount of .85% for processing. The
    effective borrowing rate is approximately 11% as of
    September 2, 2006.

Subsequent to the end of the fiscal year, the Company paid off
    the remaining balance of the Beacon Bank Credit Agreement and
    borrowed $5,000,000 from Thomas F. Leahy, the Chairman of the
    Board of Directors of the Company. Unpaid principal due under
    the note bears interest at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) per
    annum, commencing on November 3, with such interest rate
    increasing by one percent (1%) each calendar month, beginning
    January 1, 2007, up to a maximum of twenty percent (20%)
    per annum. The Company believes that the borrowing rate is
    consistent with other borrowing options that were available to
    the Company at the time of the note.

A change in interest rates for the Beacon Credit Agreement and
    the note issued to Thomas F. Leahy are not expected to have a
    material adverse effect on our near-term financial condition or
    results of operation. Our financing arrangements, which include
    our lease financings, do not fluctuate with the movement of
    general interest rates.

35

Table of Contents   

Item 8.      

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.   

Our financial statements as of September 2, 2006 and
    August 31, 2005, and for each of the years in the
    three-year period ended September 2, 2006, August 31,
    2005 and August 31, 2004, together with the Reports of our
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms, are included in
    this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    on the pages indicated below.

Page No. 

Consolidated
    Balance Sheets  

37

Consolidated
    Statements of Operations  

38

Consolidated
    Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity  

39

Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows  

40

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements  

42-67

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

68

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

69

36

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
    financial statements.

37

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
    financial statements.

38

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
    financial statements.

39

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

40

Table of Contents   

Supplemental disclosures of non-cash financing and
    investing activities:  

In Fiscal 2006, capital lease obligations related to property
    and equipment were $2,314 and issuance of common stock to
    landlord recognized as long-term asset was $336.

In Fiscal 2005, 98,538 shares of Convertible Preferred
    Stock were converted into 985,000 shares of common stock
    and capital lease obligations related to property and equipment
    were $442.

In Fiscal 2004, the Company issued common shares for repayment
    of interest payable valued at $167 and capital lease obligations
    related to property and equipment were $34.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
    financial statements.

41

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

Note 1  

Overview   

HEI, Inc. and subsidiaries are referred to herein as
     HEI,  the  Company,   us, 
     we  or  our,  unless the context indicates
    otherwise. We provide a comprehensive range of engineering,
    product design, automation and test, manufacturing,
    distribution, and fulfillment services and solutions to our
    customers in the hearing, medical device, medical equipment,
    communications, computing and industrial equipment markets. We
    provide these services and solutions on a global basis through
    four integrated facilities in North America. These services and
    solutions support our customers  products from initial
    product development and design through manufacturing to
    worldwide distribution and aftermarket support. We leverage our
    various technology platforms to provide bundled solutions to the
    markets served.

Fiscal Year.   During fiscal year 2006, the
    Company changed its fiscal year end to a 52 or 53 week
    period ending on the Saturday closest to August 31. Fiscal
    year 2006 ended on September 2, 2006. Fiscal years 2005 and
    2004 ended on August 31, 2005 and August 31, 2004,
    respectively, and are alternatively identified herein as Fiscal
    2005 and Fiscal 2004.

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies   

Principles of Consolidation.   The consolidated
    financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its
    wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant inter-company
    transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

Revenue Recognition.   Revenue for manufacturing
    and assembly contracts is generally recognized upon shipment to
    the customer which represents the point at which the risks and
    rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. We
    have a limited number of arrangements with customers which
    require that we retain ownership of inventory until it has been
    received by the customer or until it is accepted by the
    customer. There are no additional obligations or other rights of
    return associated with these agreements. Accordingly, revenue
    for these arrangements is recognized upon receipt by the
    customer, upon acceptance by the customer or when the inventory
    is utilized by the customer in its manufacturing process. Our
    Advanced Medical Operations ( AMO ) division provides
    service contracts for some of its products. Billings for
    services contracts are based on published renewal rates and
    revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the service
    period.

AMO s development contracts are typically discrete time and
    materials projects that generally do not involve separately
    priced deliverables. Development contract revenue is recognized
    ratably as development activities occur based on contractual per
    hour and material reimbursement rates. Development contracts are
    an interactive process with customers as different design and
    functionality is contemplated during the design phase. Upon
    reaching the contractual billing maximums, we defer revenue
    until contract extensions or purchase orders are received from
    customers. We occasionally have contractual arrangements in
    which part or all of the payment or billing is contingent upon
    achieving milestones or customer acceptance. For those contracts
    we evaluate whether the contract should be accounted using the
    completed contract method if the term of the arrangement is
    short-term or using the percentage of completion method for
    longer-term contracts.

Cash Equivalents.   The Company considers its
    investments in all highly liquid debt instruments with original
    maturities of three months or less at date of purchase to be
    cash equivalents. The Company deposits its cash in high credit
    quality financial institutions. The balances, at times, may
    exceed Federal insured limits.

Accounts Receivable.   The Company reviews
    customers  credit history before extending unsecured credit
    and establishes an allowance for uncollectible accounts based
    upon factors surrounding the credit risk of specific customers
    and other information. Credit risk on accounts receivable is
    minimized as a result of the diverse nature of the
    Company s customer base. Invoices are generally due
    30 days after presentation. Accounts receivable over
    30 days are considered past due. The Company does not
    accrue interest on past due accounts receivable.

42

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Receivables are written off only after all collection attempts
    have failed and are based on individual credit evaluation and
    specific circumstances of the customer. Accounts receivable are
    shown net of an allowance for uncollectible accounts of $124,000
    and $157,000 at September 2, 2006 and August 31, 2005,
    respectively. During Fiscal 2006, the Company reduced the
    allowance for uncollectible accounts by $33,000, and during
    Fiscal 2005 and 2004, the Company had additions to the allowance
    for uncollectible accounts of $36,000, and $39,000, respectively
    and write-off of accounts receivable of $0 and $10,000,
    respectively. Accounts receivable over 90 days past due
    were $464,000 and $902,000 at September 2, 2006 and
    August 31, 2005, respectively.

Inventories.   Inventories are stated at the
    lower of cost or market and include materials, labor, and
    overhead costs. The majority of the inventory is purchased based
    upon contractual forecasts and customer POs, in which case
    excess or obsolete inventory is generally the customers 
    responsibility.

Property and Equipment.   Property and equipment
    are stated at cost. Depreciation and amortization are provided
    on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of
    the property and equipment. The approximate useful lives of
    building and improvements are 10-39 years and fixtures and
    equipment are
     3-10 years. 
    Depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment
    was $2,320,000, $2,233,000 and $2,644,000 for the years ended
    September 2, 2006, August 31, 2005 and August 31,
    2004, respectively.

Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred.
    Major improvements and tooling costs are capitalized and
    depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated
    useful lives. The cost and accumulated depreciation of property
    and equipment retired or otherwise disposed of is removed from
    the related accounts, and any resulting gain or loss is credited
    or charged to operations.

Intangible Assets.   Intangible assets are
    related to the acquisition of our AMO division and are amortized
    on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from three to four
    years and were fully amortized as of September 2, 2006.

Patents.   External costs associated with
    patents are capitalized and amortized over 84 months or the
    remaining life of the patent, whichever is shorter. Amortization
    expense related to patents was $88,000, $72,000 and $72,000 for
    Fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Amortization expense
    is expected to approximate $78,000, $70,000, $52,000, $40,000
    and $22,000 in each of the next five fiscal years, respectively.

Impairment of Notes Receivable.   The
    Company routinely performs an analysis as to the probability
    that a receivable is collectible. A note receivable is impaired
    when, based on current information and events, it is probable
    that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due
    according to the contractual terms of the note receivable
    agreement including scheduled interest payments. When a note
    receivable is impaired, we measure impairment based on the
    present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the
    note receivable effective interest rate. The Company may measure
    impairment based on a note receivables observable market price,
    or the fair value of the collateral if the note receivable is
    collateral dependent. Regardless of the measurement method, we
    will measure impairment based on the fair value of the
    collateral when we determine that foreclosure is probable. A
    note receivable is collateral dependent if the repayment of the
    note is expected to be provided solely by the underlying
    collateral. We may choose a measurement method on a
     note-by-note 
    basis. When an impairment is recognized, a reserve is created
    for note losses. At September 2, 2006, there were no
    indicators of impairment.

Impairment of Long-lived and Intangible
    Assets.   We continually evaluate whether events
    and circumstances have occurred that indicate the remaining
    estimated useful life of long-lived assets may warrant revision,
    or that the remaining balance of these assets may not be
    recoverable. We evaluate the recoverability of our long-lived
    assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 144  Accounting for the Impairment or
    Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  When deemed necessary, we
    complete this evaluation by comparing the carrying amount of the
    assets against the estimated undiscounted future cash flows
    associated with them. If such evaluations indicate that the
    future undiscounted cash flows of long-lived assets are not
    sufficient to recover the carrying value of such assets, the
    assets are adjusted to their estimated fair values. The Company
    assesses the impairment of its manufacturing equipment at least
    annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances
    indicate that the

43

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors considered
    important which could trigger an impairment review, and
    potentially an impairment charge, include the following:

Significant underperformance relative to historical or projected
    future operating results;

Significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets
    or the Company s overall business strategy;

Significant negative market or economic trends; and

Significant decline in the Company s stock price for a
    sustained period changing the Company s market
    capitalization relative to its net book value.

The performance of the Company s Microelectronics group in
    Fiscal 2004 created a trigger for further evaluation of the
    recoverability of the long-lived assets associated with those
    operations. This evaluation resulted in recording an asset
    impairment charge of $465,000 in Fiscal 2004. There were no
    asset impairments in Fiscal 2006 or Fiscal 2005. Asset
    impairment evaluations are by nature highly subjective.

Research, Development and Engineering.   The
    Company expenses all research, development and engineering costs
    as incurred.

Shipping and Handling.   The Company includes
    shipping and handling revenue in net sales and shipping and
    handling costs in cost of sales.

Advertising.   Advertising costs are charged to
    expense as incurred. Advertising costs were $517,000, $187,000,
    and $207,000 for the years ended September 2, 2006,
    August 31, 2005, and August 31, 2004, respectively,
    and are included in selling, general and administrative expense.

Income Taxes.   Deferred income tax assets and
    liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax
    consequences of events that have been included in the financial
    statements or income tax returns. Deferred income tax assets and
    liabilities are determined based on the differences between the
    financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities
    using currently enacted tax rates in effect for the year in
    which the differences are expected to reverse. Valuation
    allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax
    assets to the amounts more likely than not to be realized.
    Income tax expense (benefit) is the tax payable (receivable) for
    the period and the change during the period in deferred income
    tax assets and liabilities.

Stock-based Compensation.   On December 16,
    2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS)
    No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment , which is a
    revision of SFAS No. 123 and supersedes APB Opinion
    No. 25. SFAS No. 123(R) requires all share-based
    payments to employees, including grants of employee stock
    options, to be valued at fair value on the date of grant, and to
    be expensed over the applicable vesting period. Pro forma
    disclosure of the income statement effects of share-based
    payments is no longer an alternative. For the Company,
    SFAS No. 123(R) is effective for all share-based
    awards granted on or after September 1, 2005. In addition,
    companies must also recognize compensation expense related to
    any awards that are not fully vested as of the effective date.
    Compensation expense for the unvested awards will be measured
    based on the fair value of the awards previously calculated in
    developing the pro forma disclosures in accordance with the
    provisions of SFAS No. 123. We implemented
    SFAS No. 123(R)on September 1, 2005 using the
    modified prospective method.

We have granted stock options over the years to employees and
    directors under various stockholder approved stock option plans.
    As of September 2, 2006, 1,336,975 stock options are
    outstanding. The fair value of each option grant was determined
    as of grant date, utilizing the Black-Scholes option pricing
    model. The Company calculates expected volatility for stock
    options and awards using historical volatility as the Company
    believes the expected volatility will approximate historical
    volatility. The Company estimates the forfeiture rate for stock
    options using 10% for key employees and 15% for non-key
    employees. Based on these valuations, we recognized compensation
    expense of $437,000 ($.05 per share) in the fiscal year
    ended September 2, 2006 related to the amortization of the
    unvested portion of these options as of September 1, 2005.
    The amortization of each option grant will continue over

44

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

the remainder of the vesting period of each option grant. Stock
    based compensation expense of outstanding options as of
    September 2, 2006 is expected to approximate $323,000,
    $119,000, $86,000, $7,000 and $0 in each of the next five fiscal
    years, respectively.

During the fiscal year ended September 2, 2006, the Company
    granted 79,800 shares of restricted stock to several
    officers, key employees and directors. These shares vest over
    four years. The value of the shares at the date of grant was
    $260,000 which will be expensed over the vesting period.

Stock based compensation expense related to the restricted stock
    granted in 2006 was $24,000. As of September 2, 2006,
    58,800 shares of restricted stock remain outstanding. Stock
    based compensation expense of outstanding restricted stock as of
    September 2, 2006 is expected to approximate $59,000,
    $48,000, $48,000 and $11,000 in each of the next four fiscal
    years, respectively.

In addition, during the fiscal year ended September 2,
    2006, we modified the terms of 100,000 options to accelerate
    vesting on any unvested portion of these grants and to extend
    the exercise period on 25,000 options for 90 days beyond
    normal terms. The effect of these actions was an additional
    non-cash expense of $42,000 which was recorded in the quarter
    ended February 25, 2006.

There were 5,000 options granted in the twelve months ended
    September 2, 2006. There were 80,000 options granted during
    the twelve months ended August 31, 2005.

During Fiscal 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company
    approved the acceleration of vesting of stock options granted to
    employees during Fiscal 1999 through Fiscal 2002. All of these
    option grants had exercise prices that were in excess of the
    stock price at the time of the action. The effect of this action
    was to accelerate the recognition of the pro-forma employee
    compensation. Fiscal 2005 pro forma employee compensation
    expense includes $1,500,000 of incremental expense related to
    the options whose vesting terms were accelerated.

In prior years, we applied the intrinsic-value method prescribed
    in Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion
    No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
    Employees,  to account for the issuance of stock incentives
    to employees and directors. No compensation expense related to
    employees  and directors  stock incentives were
    recognized in the prior year financial statements, as all
    options granted under stock incentive plans had an exercise
    price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock
    on the date of grant. Had we applied the fair value recognition
    provisions of  SFAS  No. 123,  Accounting
    for Stock-Based Compensation,  to stock based employee
    compensation for periods prior to Fiscal 2006, our net loss per
    share would have increased to the pro forma amounts indicated
    below:

Fiscal Year Ended 

August 31, 

August 31, 

2005 

2004 

(In thousands, except share data) 

Loss attributable to common
    shareholders as reported

$

(717

)

$

(7,009

)

Add: Stock-based employee
    compensation included in reported net loss, net of related tax
    effects

Deduct: Total stock-based employee
    compensation (expense determined under fair value based method
    for all awards)

(2,974

)

(1,940

)

Loss attributable to common
    shareholders pro forma

$

(3,691

)

$

(8,949

)

Basic and diluted loss
    attributable to common shareholders per share as reported

$

(0.09

)

$

(0.90

)

Stock-based compensation expense

(0.35

)

(0.26

)

Basic and diluted loss
    attributable to common shareholders per share pro forma

$

(0.44

)

$

(1.16

)

45

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Customer Deposits.   Customer deposits result
    from cash received in advance of manufacturing services being
    performed.

Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share.   Basic
    earnings (loss) per share ( EPS ) is computed by
    dividing net income or loss by the weighted average number of
    common shares outstanding during each period. Diluted earnings
    (loss) per share are computed by dividing net income or loss by
    the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
    assuming the exercise of convertible preferred stock, dilutive
    stock options and warrants. The dilutive effect of the stock
    options and warrants is computed using the average market price
    of the Company s stock during each period under the
    treasury stock method. During periods of loss, convertible
    preferred stock, options and warrants are not dilutive and are
    thus excluded from the calculation.

Use of Estimates.   The preparation of financial
    statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States of America requires management to
    make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
    of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets
    and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
    reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
    period. Actual results could differ significantly from those
    estimates.

Change in Accounting Estimate.   During the
    fiscal year ending September 2, 2006, the Company changed
    its estimates for the calculation of inventory carrying costs
    relating to the computation of overhead associated with its
    inventory categories. Specifically, the Company believes that
    its prior estimates, which included significant allocations of
    quality control costs in the computations, were no longer
    representative of the costs associated with its current
    inventory make up. The change in estimate was further supported
    by the change in the Company s product mix and resulting
    inventory make up, expanding regulatory and compliance nature of
    the Company s quality control function and the shift to a
    business unit configuration for the company compared to a
    previously corporate-centralized configuration for our
    operations. The Company believes that this change in estimate is
    more representative of our changing inventory make up during the
    last fiscal year. The change in estimate resulted in a
    $1 million reduction in inventory carrying costs as of
    September 2, 2006. The Company will continue to review its
    estimates on a going forward basis, which could result in
    additional changes in estimate for the carrying costs associated
    with our inventories.

Financial Instruments.   The fair value of cash
    equivalents, accounts receivable and payable approximate their
    carrying value due to the short-term nature of these
    instruments. The fair market values of the Company s
    borrowings and other long-term liabilities outstanding
    approximate their carrying values based upon current market
    rates of interest.

Reclassifications.   Certain reclassifications
    have been made to prior year amounts on the consolidated balance
    sheet as of August 31, 2005 to conform to the current year
    presentation. The reclassifications were to reflect a current
    deferred tax asset and long-term deferred tax liability of
    $817,000. These reclassifications had no effect on the
    Company s stockholders  equity, net income or net cash
    flows as previously reported.

New Accounting Pronouncements.   The FASB has
    published FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48
    (FIN No. 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes, to address the noncomparability in reporting tax assets
    and liabilities resulting from a lack of specific guidance in
    FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS)
    No. 109 (SFAS No. 109), Accounting for Income
    Taxes, on the uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an
    enterprise s financial statements. Specifically,
    FIN No. 48 prescribes (a) a consistent
    recognition threshold and (b) a measurement attribute for
    the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax
    position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return, and
    provides related guidance on derecognition, classification,
    interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods,
    disclosure, and transition. FIN No. 48 will apply to
    fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, with
    earlier adoption permitted. The Company does not expect the
    adoption of FIN No. 48 to have a material effect on
    its consolidated financial statements.

In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
    issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 108,  Considering the
    Effects on Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying
    Misstatements in Current Year Financial

46

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Statements,  ( SAB 108 ). SAB 108
    requires registrants to quantify errors using both the income
    statement method (i.e. iron curtain method) and the rollover
    method and requires adjustment if either method indicates a
    material error. If a correction in the current year relating to
    prior year errors is material to the current year, then the
    prior year financial information needs to be corrected. A
    correction to the prior year results that are not material to
    those years, would not require a  restatement process 
    where prior financials would be amended. SAB 108 is
    effective for fiscal years ending after November 15, 2006.
    We do not anticipate that SAB 108 will have a material
    effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash
    flows.

Note 2  

Liquidity   

We generated a net loss in Fiscal 2006 of $6,057,000, net income
    in Fiscal 2005 of $355,000 and a net loss of $7,009,000 in
    Fiscal 2004. The increase in sales in Fiscal 2005 compared to
    Fiscal 2004 was expected to continue during Fiscal 2006. As a
    result, our costs were structured to support the higher level of
    anticipated sales including selling, general and administrative
    costs and research, development and engineering costs. The
    higher sales levels were not achieved and cost reductions were
    not implemented until late in Fiscal 2006, which had little to
    no impact in reducing the operating loss for the fiscal year. In
    addition, a change in the sales mix at our RFID and AMO
    divisions reduced the overall gross margin contribution on the
    sales that were achieved. During Fiscal year 2006, the operating
    losses were funded in part by the refund of the security deposit
    on our AMO facility in the amount of $1.35 million (net of
    additional security deposits on other debt of $320,000) and
    additional borrowing under our lines of credit of
    $3.4 million. The sustained operating losses during Fiscal
    2006 have generated a significant strain on our cash resources.

We have historically financed our operations through the public
    and private sale of debt and equity securities, bank borrowings
    under lines of credit, operating equipment leases and cash
    generated by operations. In Fiscal 2004, we entered into two
    separate loans in the aggregate amount of $2,350,000 which
    enabled us to prepay a high cost subordinated promissory note
    assumed in the acquisition of our AMO business and which
    provided cash for operations. On February 13, 2004, we sold
    1,180,000 shares of our common stock which generated net
    proceeds of $3.2 million. On May 9, 2005, we sold
    130,538 shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred
    Stock which provided net proceeds of $3.2 million to the
    Company. These actions, together with the improved operating
    results during Fiscal 2005, enabled us to fund working capital
    requirements, acquire manufacturing equipment and expand our
    Credit Agreement. The expansion included increasing the
    borrowing capacity to $5,000,000 while reducing the interest
    rate and improving other terms and conditions of the facility.
    The initial term of the Credit Agreement expired
    September 1, 2006 and was automatically extended by six
    months.

In April 2006, the Company entered into a supplemental
    $2,000,000 revolving line of credit with Beacon Bank that is
    secured by a portion of our inventory and our foreign accounts
    receivable and guaranteed by the Small Business Administration
    (the  Line of Credit ). The Line of Credit expires in
    April 2007. Borrowings under the Line of Credit bear an interest
    rate of Prime plus 2.75% and a processing fee of .65%. The
    effective borrowing rate as of September 2, 2006 was
    approximately 11%. As of September 2, 2006, the balance
    outstanding on the Line of Credit was $2,000,000. The Company
    was in compliance with all covenants of the Line of Credit as of
    September 2, 2006.

As a result of these events, at September 2, 2006 our
    sources of liquidity consisted of $674,000 of cash and cash
    equivalents and approximately $550,000 of borrowing capacity
    under our Credit Agreement. Our liquidity, however, is affected
    by many factors, some of which are based on the normal ongoing
    operations of our business, the most significant of which
    include the timing of the collection of receivables, the level
    of inventories and capital expenditures.

Beginning in mid-Fiscal 2006, the Company began efforts to
    change its cost structures and operating structures in an effort
    to reduce costs and begin to focus more heavily on the
    operational performance of each of our divisions.

47

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The most significant change was to shift from a centralized
    management of our divisions to setting up a general manager for
    each of our operations. Some additional cost reductions were
    further undertaken at our Victoria and Chanhassen facilities
    towards the end of Fiscal 2006. The impacts of these changes
    along with the reduction of overall sales levels were not
    adequate to move the Company to a level of profitability by the
    end of the fiscal year.

Beginning in Fiscal 2007, the Company hired a new Chief
    Executive Officer, who was the Company s Chief Financial
    Officer and continues to fulfill that dual role, to provide
    additional focus on cost structures and operational
    improvements. Additional cost reductions have already been
    initiated in addition to operational improvement initiatives at
    each of our divisions. Revised operating budgets have been
    established to allow us to focus our efforts on our operating
    activity and expenses and to improve gross margins and minimize
    costs. Our focus will include:

Expanding our sales efforts to existing customers and to find
    new customers for our products. We will accomplish this through
    the restructuring of our sales staff in Boulder and Victoria and
    by adding an additional sales person to support our flexible
    substrate business in Tempe.

Focusing on gross margin improvements at all divisions. We will
    accomplish this by focusing on our costs and looking at all
    areas for improvements including material costs, labor costs and
    overhead structures.

Structuring our staffing to work within our current sales levels
    for all of our general and administrative costs and engineering
    costs, and to reorganize the staff as necessary to position the
    Company for growth.

Pursuing additional sublease tenants for the excess space in our
    Boulder facility while allowing for adequate room for expansion
    in that division. This will help to offset a portion of the
    operating costs and lease costs of that facility.

Refinancing our debt to improve cash flow. To that end,
    subsequent to the end of Fiscal 2006, the Company paid off the
    Credit Agreement with Beacon Bank and replaced the funding
    through a $5,000,000 one-year term secured loan from Thomas F.
    Leahy, the Company s Chairman of the Board. The new term
    loan was undertaken to provide the Company with the opportunity
    to establish a relationship with a new asset-based lender during
    Fiscal 2007. This transaction allowed the Company to have direct
    access again to the collection of its accounts receivables,
    which should reduce the days outstanding and improve cash flow
    from collections. In addition, the loan provided additional
    future working capital of approximately $1.8 million after
    the Credit Agreement was repaid and current working capital was
    funded.

Reduction in inventories by reviewing buying procedures and
    reducing any excess on hand inventory while maintaining the
    required inventories to meet customer demand. These initiatives
    are targeted to reduce inventories by $1 million by the end
    of Fiscal 2007.

During Fiscal 2007, we intend to spend approximately
    $1.0 million for manufacturing equipment which we expect to
    expand our manufacturing capacity and our technological
    capabilities in order to meet the expanding needs of our
    customers. It is expected that these expenditures will be funded
    from existing cash, cash generated from operations, lease
    financing and available debt financing for the next
    12 months.

In the event future cash flows and borrowing capacities are not
    sufficient to fund operations at the present level, additional
    measures will be taken including efforts to further reduce
    expenditure levels such as reduction of spending for research
    and development, engineering, elimination of budgeted raises,
    and reduction of non-strategic employees and the deferral or
    elimination of capital expenditures. In addition, we believe
    that other sources of liquidity are available including issuance
    of the Company s stock, the expansion of our credit
    facilities and the issuance of long-term debt.

Management believes that existing, current and future lending
    capacity and cash generated from operations will supply
    sufficient cash flow to meet short-term and long-term debt
    obligations, working capital, capital expenditure and operating
    requirements during the next 12 months.

48

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Note 3  

Other
    Financial Statement Data   

The following provides additional information concerning
    selected consolidated balance sheet accounts at
    September 2, 2006 and August 31, 2005:

Note 4  

Warranty
    Obligations   

Sales of our products are subject to limited warranty guarantees
    that typically extend for a period of twelve months from the
    date of manufacture. Warranty terms are included in customer
    contracts under which we are obligated to repair, replace or
    refund the purchase price of any components or assemblies our
    customers deem defective due to workmanship or materials. We do,
    however, reserve the right to reject warranty claims where we
    determine that failure is due to normal wear, customer
    modifications, improper maintenance, or misuse. Warranty
    provisions are based on estimated returns and warranty expenses
    applied to current period revenue and historical warranty
    incidence over the preceding twelve-month period. Both the
    experience and the warranty liability are

49

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

evaluated on an ongoing basis for adequacy. The following is a
    roll forward of the Company s product warranty accrual for
    each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ending
    September 2, 2006:

Note 5  

Asset
    Impairment Charges   

In fiscal 2004, the historical losses of our Microelectronics
    group triggered an internal evaluation of our long-lived assets
    relating to our Microelectronics Operations. Following this
    evaluation, it was determined that we should have these assets
    valued by an independent third party in order to further
    evaluate the recoverability of our long-lived assets. As a
    result of this independent valuation, the Company recorded an
    impairment charge of $465,000 in Fiscal 2004. There were no such
    charges in Fiscal 2006 or Fiscal 2005.

50

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Note 6  

Long-Term
    Debt   

Long-term debt consists of the following:

September 2, 

August 31, 

2006 

2005 

(In thousands) 

Commerce Bank mortgage payable in
    monthly installments of principal and interest of $9 based on a
    twenty-year amortization with a final payment of approximately
    $1,050 due in November 2009; collateralized by our Victoria
    facility

$

1,122

$

1,145

Commerce Financial Group, Inc.
    equipment loan payable in fixed monthly principal and interest
    installments of $28 through September 2007; collateralized by
    our Victoria facility and equipment located at our Tempe facility

361

673

Capital lease obligation; payable
    in installments of $1 through February 2009; collateralized with
    equipment

18

25

Commercial loans payable in fixed
    monthly installments of $1 through May 2009; collateralized with
    certain machinery and equipment

17

22

Capital lease obligations; payable
    in fixed monthly installments of $16 through July 2008;
    collateralized with certain machinery and equipment

292

423

Capital lease obligations; payable
    in fixed monthly installments of $4 through September 2008;
    collateralized with certain machinery and equipment

87

Capital lease obligations; payable
    in fixed monthly installments of $1 through November 2008;
    collateralized with certain machinery and equipment

17

Capital lease obligations; payable
    in fixed monthly installments of $4 through January 2009;
    collateralized with certain machinery and equipment

89

Capital lease obligations; payable
    in fixed monthly installments of $9 with a final payment of
    approximately $70 due in February 2009; collateralized with
    certain machinery and equipment

268

Capital lease obligations; payable
    in fixed monthly installments of $2 through March 2009;
    collateralized with certain machinery and equipment

46

Capital lease obligations; payable
    in fixed monthly installments of $2 with a final payment of
    approximately $10 due in April 2009; collateralized with certain
    machinery and equipment

48

Capital lease obligations; payable
    in fixed monthly installments of $10 with a final payment of
    approximately $72 due in June 2009; collateralized with certain
    machinery and equipment

325

Capital lease obligations; payable
    in fixed monthly installments of $2 through May 2009;
    collateralized with certain machinery and equipment

52

Capital lease obligations; payable
    in fixed monthly installments of $3 with a final payment of
    approximately $18 due in June 2009; collateralized with certain
    machinery and equipment

105

Capital lease obligations; payable
    in fixed monthly installments of $22 with a final payment of
    approximately $141 due in November 2009; collateralized with
    certain machinery and equipment

775

Capital lease obligations; payable
    in fixed monthly installments of $6 with a final payment of
    approximately $43 due in February 2010; collateralized with
    certain machinery and equipment

240

Commercial loans payable paid in
    full during Fiscal 2006

9

Total

3,862

2,297

Less current maturities

1,038

484

Total long-term debt

$

2,824

$

1,813

51

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

During our fiscal years ended September 2, 2006,
    August 31, 2005 and August 31, 2004, we undertook a
    number of activities to restructure our term-debt. The following
    is a summary of those transactions:

At the time of our AMO acquisition in January 2003, CMED, the
    seller, funded a subordinated promissory note. On May 8,
    2003 the subordinated promissory note was sold by CMED to a
    third party for $1,820,000. The agreement continued with the
    same terms as the original agreement with CMED until
    August 15, 2003. To encourage early repayment, the terms of
    the subordinated promissory note were modified on May 16,
    2003 and on September 12, 2003. On October 15, 2003,
    we prepaid the subordinated promissory note for a discount on
    the principal amount outstanding of $360,000, the payment of
    accrued interest totaling $167,000 with 47,700 unregistered
    common shares of HEI stock valued at $3.50 per share and
    forgiveness of interest from September 15, 2003 through
    October 15, 2003. As a result of the prepayment of the
    subordinated promissory note, the Company recognized a gain on
    the early extinguishment of the subordinated promissory note
    totaling $472,000 during the first quarter of Fiscal 2004.

The funds to prepay the subordinated promissory note were
    obtained from two separate loans in the aggregate amount of
    $2,350,000 under new Term Loan Agreements with Commerce Bank, a
    Minnesota state banking association, and its affiliate, Commerce
    Financial Group, Inc., a Minnesota corporation. The first note,
    with Commerce Bank, in the amount of $1,200,000 was executed on
    October 14, 2003. This note is secured by our Victoria,
    Minnesota facility. The term of the first note is six years. The
    original interest rate on this note was a nominal rate of
    6.50% per annum for the first three years, and thereafter
    the interest rate will be adjusted on the first date of the
    fourth loan year to a nominal rate per annum equal to the then
    Three Year Treasury Base Rate (as defined) plus 3.00%; provided,
    however, that in no event will the interest rate be less than
    the Prime Rate plus 1.0% per annum. Monthly payment of
    principal and interest will be based on a twenty-year
    amortization with a final payment of approximately $1,048,000
    due on November 1, 2009. The second note, with Commerce
    Financial Group, Inc., in the amount of $1,150,000 was executed
    on October 28, 2003. The second note is secured by our
    Victoria facility and certain equipment located at our Tempe
    facility. The term of the second note is four years. The
    original interest rate on this note was 8.975% per year
    through September 27, 2007. Monthly payments of principal
    and interest in the amount of $28,000 are paid over a
    forty-eight month period beginning on October 28, 2003.

During the first quarter of Fiscal 2005, we violated two
    covenants of these term loan agreements. As a result, on
    December 3, 2004, we entered into waiver and amendments
    with Commerce Bank and Commerce Financial Group, Inc.,
    respectively, effective as of November 30, 2004 and on
    December 29, 2004, to address actual and potential covenant
    violations. The waiver and amendments on December 3, 2004
    increased the interest rate to be paid under the Commerce Bank
    note beginning March 1, 2005, to and including
    October 31, 2006, from 6.5% to 7.5%, and increased the
    interest rate to be paid under the Commerce Financial Group,
    Inc. note beginning March 1, 2005, to and including
    September 28, 2007, from 8.975% to 9.975%. The interest
    rate on the Commerce Bank loan agreement was 7.50% as of
    September 2, 2006 and August 31, 2005, respectively.
    The interest rate on the Commerce Financial Group, Inc. loan
    agreement was 9.975% as of September 2, 2006 and
    August 31, 2005, respectively.

The Company was not in compliance with the debt service coverage
    ratio requirement of these two agreements as of May 27,
    2006. On June 21, 2006, we entered into a Waiver and
    Amendment dated effective May 27, 2006 (the  Commerce
    Bank Amendment ) to waive and amend certain provisions of
    The Commerce Bank Term Loan Agreement dated October 14,
    2003, as amended by the Waiver and Amendment dated as of
    November 30, 2004, the Waiver and Amendment dated as of
    December 29, 2004 and the Promissory Note dated
    October 14, 2003. The Commerce Bank Amendment, among other
    things: (i) waived the Company s compliance with the
    Debt Service Coverage Ratio covenant in the Commerce Bank Loan
    Agreement for the period up to the Company s reporting
    period ending August 31, 2006 and (ii) amended the
    Commerce Bank Loan Agreement to re-establish the $100,000
    payment reserve account (which amount is included in security
    deposit on the balance sheet). Also on June 21, 2006, the
    Company entered into a Waiver and Amendment (the  Commerce
    Financial Group Amendment ) to waive and amend certain
    provisions of The Commerce Financial Group Term Loan Agreement
    dated October 28,

52

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

2003, as amended by the Waiver and Amendment dated as of
    November 30, 2004, the Waiver and Amendment dated as of
    December 29, 2004 and the Promissory Note dated
    October 28, 2003. The Commerce Financial Group Amendment,
    among other things: (i) waived the Company s
    compliance with the Debt Service Coverage Ratio covenant in the
    Commerce Financial Group Loan Agreement for the period up to the
    Company s reporting period ending August 31, 2006 and
    (ii) amended the Commerce Financial Group Loan Agreement to
    re-establish the $25,000 payment reserve account (which amount
    is included in security deposit on the balance sheet).

Also on June 21, 2006, the Company entered into a Waiver
    (the  Waiver ) to waive and amend certain provisions
    of its Master Equipment Lease No. 0512231 (the  Master
    Lease ) dated as of December 23, 2005 with Commerce
    Leasing Corporation (the  Lessor ), a division of
    Commerce Financial Group, Inc.; those lease commitments by the
    Lessor for the benefit of the Company dated as of
    December 5, 2005, December 8, 2005, February 23,
    2006 and February 24, 2006 (collectively, the
     Commitments  and those supplements (the
     Supplements ) to the Master Lease in favor of the
    Lessor (the Master Lease, Commitments and Supplements are
    collectively the  Lease ). The Waiver, among other
    things: (i) waived the Company s compliance with the
    Debt Service Coverage Ratio covenant in the Lease for the period
    up to the Company s reporting period ending August 31,
    2006 and (ii) amended the Lease to increase by 2% the
    implied economic interest rate for each Supplement under the
    Master Lease and to adjust the monthly rental payments for the
    Supplements accordingly until the Company is in compliance with
    the covenants in the Lease.

The Company has received waivers for any violations of its debt
    covenants as of September 2, 2006 with Commerce Bank and
    Commerce Financial Group, Inc. The Company believes that they
    will be in compliance with all covenants by the end of Fiscal
    2007.

During Fiscal 2005, the Company entered into several capital
    lease agreements to fund the acquisition of machinery and
    equipment. The total principal amount of these leases is
    $442,000 with an effective average interest rate of 16%. These
    agreements are for three years with reduced payment terms over
    the life of the lease. At the end of the lease, we have the
    option to purchase the equipment at an agreed upon value which
    is generally approximately 20% of the original equipment cost.
    However, this amount may be reduced to 15% if our equity
    increases by $4,000,000 within 18 months of the date of
    these leases. Amortization of capital lease obligations was
    included in depreciation expense for all years presented. The
    cost and accumulated amortization of capital lease obligations
    was $738,000 and $114,000 as of August 31, 2005,
    respectively.

During Fiscal 2006, the Company entered into several capital
    lease agreements to fund the acquisition of machinery and
    equipment, primarily at our Tempe facility. Most of these leases
    were entered into with Commerce Financial Group and are secured
    by the equipment being leased and a secured interest in our
    Victoria building. The total principal amount of these leases is
    $2,314,000 with an average effective interest rate of 12.5%.
    These agreements are for 36 to 45 months with reduced
    payments in the last year of the lease. At the end of the lease
    we have the option to purchase the equipment for $1 or at an
    agreed upon value which is generally not less than 15% nor
    greater than 20% of the original equipment cost. The cost and
    accumulated amortization of capital lease obligations was
    $3,092,000 and $738,000 and $346,000 and $114,000 as of
    September 2, 2006 and August 31, 2005, respectively.

Principal maturities of long-term debt at September 2,
    2006, are as follows:

53

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Future minimum capital lease payments are as follows for the
    fiscal years ending after September 2, 2006:

Note 7  

Line
    of Credit   

Since early in Fiscal 2003, we have had an accounts receivable
    agreement (the  Credit Agreement ) with Beacon Bank of
    Shorewood, Minnesota. The Credit Agreement was modified several
    times during Fiscal 2005 and 2004 with an updated expiration
    date of September 1, 2006, which was automatically extended
    for a subsequent six month period. The Credit Agreement provides
    for a maximum amount of credit ($5,000,000) and has an
    acceleration clause in the event of default. The Credit
    Agreement is an accounts receivable backed facility and is
    additionally secured by inventory, intellectual property and
    other general intangibles. The Credit Agreement is not subject
    to any restrictive financial covenants. At year end, we had a
    maximum of approximately $550,000 available under the Credit
    Agreement, with the actual borrowings based on 90% of eligible
    accounts receivable. The balance on the line of credit was
    $3,948,000, $2,563,000 and $1,310,000 as of September 2,
    2006, August 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Credit
    Agreement as amended on July 7, 2005 bears an interest rate
    of Prime plus 2.75% (9% as of August 31, 2005 and 11% as of
    September 2, 2006). There is also an immediate discount of
    .85% for processing. Prior to July 7, 2005, borrowings
    under the facility required an immediate processing fee of 0.50%
    of each assigned amount, a daily per diem equal to 1/25% on any
    uncollected accounts receivable. Borrowings are reduced as
    collections and payments are received into a lock box by the
    bank. In Fiscal 2004, the effective interest rate based on our
    average DSO of 55 days would be 17.9% annualized. This rate
    was approximately the same in Fiscal 2005 prior to the amendment
    in July. The effective borrowing rate subsequent to that
    amendment was approximately 9%. As of the September 2,
    2006, the Company is in compliance with all covenants of the
    Credit Agreement. See Subsequent Event footnote for discussion
    regarding the subsequent payoff of the balance under this Credit
    Agreement.

In March 2006, the Company entered into a supplemental
    $2,000,000 revolving line of credit with Beacon Bank that is
    secured by a portion of our inventory and our foreign accounts
    receivable and guaranteed by the Small Business Administration
    (the  Line of Credit ). The Line of Credit expires in
    April 2007, and has an early call provision for default.
    Borrowings under the Line of Credit bear an interest rate of
    Prime plus 2.75% and a processing fee of .65%. The effective
    borrowing rate as of September 2, 2006 was approximately
    11%. As of September 2, 2006, the balance outstanding on
    the Line of Credit was $2,000,000. The Company was in compliance
    with all covenants of the Line of Credit as of September 2,
    2006.

54

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Note 8  

Income
    Taxes   

Income tax expense (benefit) for the fiscal years ended
    September 2, 2006, August 31, 2005, and
    August 31, 2004 consisted of the following:

Actual income tax expense (benefit) differs from the expected
    amount based upon the statutory federal tax rates as follows:

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to
    significant portions of the deferred tax assets and liabilities
    at September 2, 2006 and August 31, 2005 are as
    follows:

55

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The Company has federal and state net operating loss
    carry-forwards at September 2, 2006, of approximately $23.1
    and $13.7 million, respectively, which is available to
    reduce income taxes payable in future years. If not used, this
    carry-forward will expire in years 2012 through 2026. Under the
    Tax Reform Act of 1986, the utilization of this tax loss
    carry-forward may be limited as a result of significant changes
    in ownership. In addition, the Company has a capital loss
    carry-forward of $691,000 which is available to offset any
    future capital gains. If not used, this carry-forward will
    expire in 2007.

The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as of
    September 2, 2006, was $9,821,000 and as of August 31,
    2005, was $7,195,000. The total valuation allowance for the
    fiscal year ended September 2, 2006 increased by $2,626,000
    and decreased in Fiscal 2005 by $447,000. In assessing the
    recovery of the deferred tax asset, management considers whether
    it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the
    deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate
    realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the
    generation of future taxable income in the periods in which
    those temporary differences become deductible. Management
    considers the scheduled reversals of future deferred tax
    liabilities, projected future taxable income, and tax planning
    strategies in making this assessment.

Note 9  

Stock
    Benefit Plans   

1998 Plan.   Under the Company s 1998 Stock
    Option Plan (the  1998 Plan ), a maximum of
    2,000,000 shares of common stock may be issued pursuant to
    qualified and nonqualified stock options. Stock options granted
    become exercisable in varying increments with a portion tied to
    the closing stock price or up to a maximum of ten years,
    whichever comes first. The exercise price for options granted is
    equal to the closing market price of the common stock on the
    date of the grant. At September 2, 2006, the number of
    shares available for grant under the 1998 Plan was 806,000.

1989 Plan.   Under the Company s 1989
    Omnibus Stock Compensation Plan (the  1989 Plan ), a
    maximum of 2,000,000 shares of common stock may be issued
    pursuant to qualified and nonqualified stock options, stock
    purchase rights and other stock-based awards. Stock options
    granted become exercisable in varying increments with a portion
    tied to the closing stock price or up to a maximum of ten years,
    whichever comes first. Generally, the exercise price for options
    granted is equal to the closing market price of the common stock
    on the date of the grant.

Under the 1989 Plan, substantially all regular full-time
    employees are given the opportunity to designate up to 10% of
    their annual compensation to be withheld, through payroll
    deductions, for the purchase of common stock at 85% of the lower
    of (i) the market price at the beginning of the plan year,
    or (ii) the market price at the end of the plan year.
    During our fiscal years ended September 2, 2006,
    August 31, 2005 and August 31, 2004, 0, 37,000 and
    83,314 shares at prices of $0, $2.50 and $1.62,
    respectively, were purchased under the 1989 Plan in connection
    with

56

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

the employee stock purchase plan. At September 2, 2006, the
    number of shares available for grant under the 1989 Plan was
    30,000.

Directors  Plan.   During Fiscal 1999, the
    shareholders approved the 1998 Stock Option Plan for
    Non-employee Directors (the  Director s Plan ).
    Under the Director s Plan, 425,000 shares are
    authorized for issuance, with an initial year grant of
    55,000 shares and an annual grant thereafter of
    10,000 shares to each non-employee director. These grants
    are effective each year upon adjournment of the annual
    shareholders  meeting at an exercise price equal to the
    market price on the date of grant. The options become
    exercisable at the earlier of seven years after the grant date
    or on the first day the market value equals or exceeds $25.00.
    These options expire ten years after the grant date. Options to
    purchase 30,000 shares, in the aggregate, were granted
    annually to three non-employee directors at $3.40 and $2.16
    during fiscal years ended August 31, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively. At August 31, 2005 and continuing through
    September 2, 2006, there were no shares available for
    grant. An additional option to purchase 10,000 shares were
    granted to a non-employee director at $3.40 during our fiscal
    year ended August 31, 2004, from the 1998 Plan as the
    Director s Plan did not have shares remaining to grant.

2005 HEI, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase
    Plan.   During Fiscal 2006, the shareholders
    approved the 2005 HEI, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which
    includes a total of 300,000 shares of the Company s
    Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan. The purpose
    of the Plan is to provide eligible employees with an opportunity
    to increase their proprietary interest in the success of the
    Company by purchasing Common Stock from the Company on favorable
    terms and paying for such purchases through periodic payroll
    deductions. No shares were purchased under this Plan in Fiscal
    2006.

Eligibility.   Any employee of the Company (or
    any designated subsidiary) whose customary employment is for
    more than five (5) months per calendar year and for more
    than thirty-two (32) hours per week and who has been
    employed for at least six (6) months at the start of an
    offering period is eligible to participate in the Plan.
    Employees become participants under the Plan by delivering to
    the Company an enrollment form authorizing payroll deductions
    within a specified period of time prior to the commencement of
    each offering period. No employee is permitted to purchase
    Common Stock under the Plan if such employee owns more than five
    percent (5%) of the total combined voting power or value of all
    classes of stock of the Company or any parent or subsidiary of
    the Company (including shares which may be purchased under the
    Plan or pursuant to any other options). In addition, no employee
    is entitled to purchase more than $25,000 worth of shares in any
    calendar year or more than 15,000 shares in any offering
    period.

Contribution Period.   During each calendar
    year, two (2) offering periods, each with a duration of six
    (6) months, will commence on March 1 and
    October 1. Each offering period contains a six-month
    contribution period, with purchases occurring at the end of each
    six-month contribution period. The first offering and
    contribution periods commenced on March 1, 2006 through
    August 31, 2006.

Purchase Price.   The price of each share of
    Common Stock purchased under the Plan will be ninety-five
    percent (95%) of the lower of (i) the fair market value per
    share of Common Stock on the last trading day of the offering
    period or (ii) the fair market value per share of Common
    Stock on the last trading day before the offering date. The
    purchase price of the shares is accumulated by payroll
    deductions over each contribution period. The deductions may not
    exceed 10% of an employee s compensation and no more than
    15,000 shares may be purchased on any purchase date. All
    payroll deductions of a participant are credited to his or her
    account under the Plan and such funds may be used by the Company
    for any corporate purpose.

Change of Control.   Under the terms and
    conditions of the Company s 1989 Plan and the
    Director s Plan, a change of control in the Company s
    Board of Directors, under certain circumstances, requires a
    vesting of all unexercised stock options. Under the 2005 HEI,
    Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, in the event of a change of
    control, all offering periods and contribution periods will
    terminate and each outstanding purchase right will be exercised.

57

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Summary of Activity.   The following is a
    summary of all activity involving the above stock option plans:

The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represent
    the total pretax intrinsic value, based on the Company s
    closing stock price of $2.76 as of September 2, 2006, which
    theoretically could have been received by the option holders had
    all option holders exercised their options as of that date. The
    total number of
     in-the-money 
    options exercisable as of September 2, 2006 was 437,500.

During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2005, the Board of Directors
    voted to accelerate the vesting of all stock options outstanding
    to employees that were issued in Fiscal 1999, 2000, 2001 and
    2002 so that all were 100% exercisable as of July 1, 2005.
    As defined in FASB Interpretation No. 44,  Accounting
    for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation,  it
    was determined that there was no compensation expense as a
    result of the acceleration of the vesting of the outstanding
    options. Options that were exercisable as of September 2,
    2006, August 31, 2005 and 2004 were 857,250, 815,325 and
    594,988, respectively. The average exercise price of exercisable
    options at September 2, 2006, August 31, 2005 and 2004
    was $5.47, $5.92 and $5.85, respectively.

58

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table summarizes information about stock options
    outstanding as of September 2, 2006:

The weighted average grant-date fair value of options granted
    during our fiscal years ended September 2, 2006,
    August 31, 2005, August 31, 2004, was $1.87, $2.15 and
    $1.96, respectively. The weighted average fair value of options
    was determined separately for each grant under the
    Company s various plans by using the fair value of each
    option and warrant grant on the date of grant, utilizing the
    Black-Scholes option-pricing model and the following key
    weighted average assumptions:

Common Stock Warrants.   In May, 2005, the
    Company issued five year warrants to purchase
    527,152 shares of common stock at an exercise price of
    $3.05 in connection with a private equity offering. In February
    2004, the Company issued warrants to purchase 424,800 share
    of common stock at an exercise price of $3.72 in connection a
    private equity placement. These warrants vested immediately and
    expire five years from date of grant. In August 2001, the
    Company issued 47,500 Warrants in connection with a financing
    transaction. These warrants vested immediately at an exercise
    price of $8.05 per share of Common Stock and expired August 2006.

Restricted Stock Awards.   Restricted stock
    awards are awards of common stock that are subject to
    restrictions on transfer and to a risk of forfeiture if the
    awardee leaves the Company before the restrictions lapse. The
    holder of a restricted stock award is generally entitled at all
    times on and after the date of issuance of the restricted shares
    to exercise the rights of a shareholder of the Company,
    including the right to vote the shares and the right to receive
    dividends on the shares. The value of such stock was established
    by the market price on the date of the grant. Compensation
    expense is being recorded over the applicable restricted stock
    vesting periods, generally four years,

59

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

using straight line vesting. A summary of the Company s
    restricted stock activity for the Fiscal year ended
    September 2, 2006 is presented in the following table:

As of September 2, 2006, there was $166,000 of total
    unrecognized compensation costs related to the outstanding
    restricted stock awards which is expected to be recognized over
    a weighted average period of 3.37 years.

Note 10  

Net
    Income (Loss) Per Share Computation   

The components of net income (loss) per basic and diluted share
    are as follows:

60

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Approximately 2,289,000, 1,646,000 and 1,918,400 shares
    under stock options and warrants have been excluded from the
    calculation of diluted net loss per common share as they are
    antidilutive for our fiscal years ended September 2, 2006,
    August 31, 2005, and August 31, 2004, respectively.

Note 11  

Equity
    Offerings and Deemed Dividend   

Sale of
    Convertible Preferred Stock  

On May 9, 2005, we completed the sale of
    130,538 shares of our Series A convertible preferred
    stock, referred to as preferred stock, in a private placement to
    a group of institutional and accredited investors. Gross
    proceeds to us from the offering were $3.4 million. Each
    share of preferred stock is convertible into ten shares of our
    common stock, which in the aggregate would represent an
    additional 1,305,380 shares of common stock. Through
    September 2, 2006, 985,380 shares of common stock have
    been issued in connection with the conversion of
    98,538 shares of Convertible Preferred Stock.

The purchase price of the preferred stock was $26.00 per
    share. In connection with the financing, we also issued to the
    investors and the agent five-year warrants to purchase up to
    527,152 shares of common stock at an exercise price of
    $3.05 per share. If the warrant holders exercise the
    warrants in full we would receive an additional approximately
    $1.6 million in cash proceeds. There are no dividend,
    coupon or redemption rights associated with our preferred stock;
    however our preferred stock includes a liquidation preference.
    The Convertible Preferred Shares have voting rights on an
     as if  converted basis. We agreed to register for
    resale by the investors the common stock issuable upon
    conversion of the preferred stock. The preferred stock will not
    be separately registered or listed on The NASDAQ Global Market.
    We issued warrants to purchase 25,000 shares of our common
    stock at an exercise price of $3.05 per share as
    compensation to the placement agent who assisted in the private
    placement.

In the event that the Company liquidates or dissolves, the
    holders of each outstanding share of preferred stock will be
    entitled to receive an amount equal to $26.00 per share,
    plus any declared but unpaid dividends, in preference to the
    holders of our common stock or any other class of our capital
    stock ranking junior to our preferred stock. After the full
    payment of the preference amount to the holders of our preferred
    stock, and provision or payment of our debts and other
    liabilities, our remaining assets or property are distributable
    upon such liquidation shall be distributed pro rata among the
    holders of our common stock  .  

Deemed
    Dividend on Convertible Preferred Stock  

In view of the fact that the preferred stock contains an
    embedded beneficial conversion feature, we recorded a deemed
    dividend on preferred stock in our financial statements for the
    quarterly period ended May 28, 2005. This non-cash dividend
    is to reflect the implied economic value to the preferred
    shareholders of being able to convert their shares into common
    stock at a discounted price. In order to determine the dividend
    value, we allocated the proceeds of the offering between
    preferred stock and the common stock warrants that were issued
    as part of the offering based on their relative fair values. The
    fair value allocated to the warrants of $850,000 was recorded as
    equity. The fair value allocated to the preferred stock of
    $2,550,000 together with the original conversion terms were used
    to calculate the value of the deemed dividend on the preferred
    stock of $1,072,000 at the date of issuance of the preferred
    stock. This amount has been charged to accumulated deficit with
    the offsetting credit to additional
     paid-in-capital. 
    We have treated the deemed dividend on preferred stock as a
    reconciling item on the statement of operations to adjust our
    reported net income (loss) to  loss available to common
    shareholders. 

Private
    Placement of Common Stock  

On February 13, 2004, we sold 1,180,000 shares of our
    Common Stock together with five-year warrants to purchase up to
    354,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of
    $3.72 per share in a private placement to a group of 18
    institutional and accredited investors. We received gross
    proceeds of $3,540,000, excluding

61

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

transaction costs of $301,000, for the shares and warrants sold,
    which will be used to increase working capital and for future
    capital expenditures. The shares and warrants were sold in
    reliance on the exemption afforded under Rule 506 of
    Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933,
    as amended. We paid a 6% underwriting discount in connection
    with the sale and the placement agent, ThinkEquity Partners,
    LLC, also received warrants to purchase up to 70,800 shares
    of our common stock at an exercise price of $3.72 per share
    as additional compensation for the private placement.

Note 12  

Notes Receivable  
    Related Parties   Officers and Former
    Directors   

In Fiscal 2001, the Company recorded notes receivable of
    $1,266,000 from certain officers and directors in connection
    with the exercise of stock options. The balance due as of
    August 31, 2005 was $207,000, of which $101,000 was due
    from the Chief Executive Officer and $106,000 was due from
    former directors. Total payments of $139,000 were received on
    April 2, 2006. The remaining balance of $68,000 from Edwin
    W. Finch, III, a former director, was rescheduled to be
    repaid by January 2, 2007. As of September 2, 2006,
    the amounts owed on these notes was $68,000 which is presented
    as a reduction to shareholders  equity at September 2,
    2006, and the interest due the Company on these notes was
    $3,000. Both amounts are payable January 2, 2007.

Note 13  

Litigation
    Recoveries   

On June 30, 2003, we commenced litigation against
    Mr. Fant, our former Chief Executive Officer and Chairman,
    in the State of Minnesota, Hennepin County District Court,
    Fourth Judicial District. The complaint alleged breach of
    contract, conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, unjust
    enrichment and corporate waste resulting from, among other
    things, Mr. Fant s default on his promissory note to
    us and other loans and certain other matters. On August 12,
    2003, we obtained a judgment against Mr. Fant on the breach
    of contract count in the amount of approximately $606,000. On
    November 24, 2003, the Court granted an additional judgment
    to us against Mr. Fant in the amount of approximately
    $993,000 on the basis of our conversion, breach of fiduciary
    duty, unjust enrichment and corporate waste claims. On
    March 29, 2004, we obtained a third judgment against
    Mr. Fant relating to our claims for damages for conversion,
    breach of fiduciary duty, and our legal and special
    investigation costs in the amount of approximately $656,000. The
    total combined judgment against Mr. Fant was approximately
    $2,255,000, excluding interest.

During Fiscal 2004 and 2005, we obtained, through garnishments
    and through sales of common stock previously held by
    Mr. Fant, approximately $1,842,000 of recoveries which have
    served to partially reduce our total judgment against
    Mr. Fant. In Fiscal 2005 and 2004 we recognized $481,000
    and $1,361,000 of these recoveries, respectively. Mr. Fant
    filed for bankruptcy protection on October 14, 2005, but on
    December 1, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court dismissed the case
    with prejudice because adequate schedules were not filed. The
    Company will continue to seek to collect additional amounts from
    Mr. Fant. At this time, it is not possible to determine
    whether collection of additional amounts is possible.

Note 14  

Employee
    Benefit Plans   

The Company has a 401(k) plan covering all eligible employees.
    Employees can make voluntary contributions to the plan of up to
    90% of their compensation not to exceed the maximum specified by
    the Internal Revenue Code. The plan also provides for a
    discretionary contribution by the Company. During our fiscal
    years ended September 2, 2006, August 31, 2005, and
    August 31, 2004, the Company contributed $225,000, $93,000
    and $105,000, respectively to the plan.

62

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Note 15  

Commitments
    and Contingencies   

We lease a 13,200 square foot production facility in Tempe,
    Arizona for our high density flexible substrates business. The
    lease extends through July 31, 2010. Base rent is
    approximately $100,000 per year. We lease one property in
    Minnesota: a 15,173 square foot facility in Chanhassen,
    Minnesota, for our RFID business. The Chanhassen facility is
    leased through August 31, 2012 with an option to extend it
    an additional four years. Base rent is $96,629 per year. In
    addition to the base rent we pay our proportionate share of
    common area maintenance expenses estimated to be
    $59,023 per year.

We lease a 152,002 square foot facility in Boulder,
    Colorado for our AMO. Our base rent is approximately $1,443,000
    for Fiscal 2007. In addition to the base rent we pay all
    operating costs associated with this building. The annual base
    rent increases each year by 3%. The Boulder facility is leased
    until September 2019. Currently, we occupy 103,998 square
    feet of the facility and 26,797 are vacant. In April 2005, we
    entered into a ten year sublease agreement for
    21,207 square feet with a high quality tenant. This is a
    ten year lease which provides for rental payments and
    reimbursement of operating costs. Aggregate rental and operating
    cost payments to be received by the Company of approximately
    $281,000 per year commenced November 2006. We are
    continuing to look for sublease tenants for the remaining
    26,797 square feet of vacant space.

Our Boulder lease provided for the refund of $1,350,000 of our
    security deposit after completing four consecutive quarters of
    positive earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
    amortization, derived in accordance with GAAP and verified by an
    independent third party accountant and delivery to our landlord
    of the greater of 100,000 shares of our common stock or
    0.11% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In November
    2005, we delivered the required documents and a certificate for
    100,000 shares of our stock. On November 23, 2005, we
    received the $1,350,000 refund. The value of the additional
    stock consideration issued to our landlord was $336,000 and is
    being amortized over the remaining term of our lease.

Total rent expense for the years ended September 2, 2006,
    August 31, 2005, and August 31, 2004 including common
    area costs and real estate taxes was $2,156,000, $1,524,000 and
    $2,045,000, respectively.

The operating lease and other contractual commitments, future
    minimum lease payments, net of payments received from subleases
    and excluding executory costs such as real estate taxes,
    insurance and maintenance expense, by year and in the aggregate
    are as follows:

The Company had an employment agreement with the Company s
    former chief executive officer who also served on the board. The
    Agreement provides for severance payments subject to certain
    conditions and events for up to 18 months of his salary at
    the time of termination. The Agreement was terminated subsequent
    to the close of the current fiscal year   See
    Subsequent Events footnote for further discussion.

63

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Note 16  

Major
    Customers, Concentration of Credit Risk and Geographic
    Data   

The table below sets forth the approximate percentage of net
    sales to major customers that represented over 10% of our
    revenue.

Accounts receivable from these customers represented 18%, 10%
    and 8% of the total accounts receivable at September 2,
    2006, August 31, 2005, and August 31, 2004,
    respectively. In addition, accounts receivable from two other
    customers represented 13% and 12% of total accounts receivable
    at September 2, 2006 and 11% and 11% of total accounts
    receivable at August 31, 2005.

The Company generally sells its products to OEMs in the United
    States and abroad in accordance with supply contracts specific
    to certain manufacturer product programs. The Company performs
    ongoing credit evaluations of its customers  financial
    conditions and, generally, does not require collateral from its
    customers. The Company s continued sales to these customers
    are often dependent upon the continuance of the customers 
    product programs.

Note 17  

Geographic
    Data   

Sales to customers by geographic region as a percentage of net
    sales are as follows:

Note 18  

Segment
    Information   

We operate the business under two business segments. These
    segments are described below:

Microelectronics Operations:   This segment
    consists of three facilities   Victoria, Chanhassen,
    and Tempe   that design, manufacture and sell ultra
    miniature microelectronic devices and high technology products
    incorporating these devices.

Advanced Medical Operations:   This segment
    consists of our Boulder facility that provides design and
    manufacturing outsourcing of complex electronic and
    electromechanical medical devices.

64

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Segment information for Fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 was as
    follows, in thousands:

Note 19  

Settlement
    Gain   

During the third quarter of Fiscal 2005, we entered into a
    settlement agreement related to an outstanding claim against the
    seller of the AMO operations that we acquired in January 2003.
    The net effect of this settlement, after offsetting legal and
    other related costs, was a gain of $300,000. All the cash
    related to this settlement was received in the third quarter of
    Fiscal 2005.

Note 20  

Subsequent
    Events   

On October 20, 2006 Mr. Mack V. Traynor III
    resigned as the Company s Chief Executive Officer and
    President and as a member of the Company s Board of
    Directors. Mr. Traynor s action did not involve a

65

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

disagreement with the Company on any matter relating to the
    Company s operations, policies or practices or any
    financial or accounting matter. A Severance and Release
    Agreement was entered into in connection with the resignation
    pursuant to which, among other things, Mr. Traynor was paid
    $145,000 upon the expiration of applicable statutory waiting
    periods. See Severance and Release Agreement dated
    October 20, 2006 filed as an exhibit with this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Effective October 20, 2006, the Company appointed the
    Company s Chief Financial Officer Mark B. Thomas as its
    Chief Executive Officer. Following the appointment,
    Mr. Thomas became the Company s Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Thomas is employed
    on a full time, at will basis at a salary for both positions
    equal to $18,750 per month ($225,000 on an annual basis).
    Mr. Thomas will also be eligible for an incentive bonus
    based on the performance of the Company over the next fiscal
    year in an amount determined by the Board of Directors, in its
    sole discretion. The Board of Directors will determine whether
    such a bonus is appropriate and the target amount of the bonus
    payment is twenty (20%) percent of employee s base salary.
    Mr. Thomas has served as the Chief Financial Officer of the
    Company since July 12, 2006.

On November 3, 2006, Thomas F. Leahy, the Chairman of the
    Board of Directors of the Company, loaned the Company $5,000,000
    dollars (the  Secured Loan ). The Company s
    obligations under the Secured Loan are evidenced by a promissory
    note (the  Note ) and a security agreement. The Note
    has an original principal amount of $5,000,000, requires the
    Company to pay monthly installments of interest, and is due and
    payable on November 2, 2007. The unpaid principal of the
    Note can be repaid at any time without prepayment penalty or
    premium. Unpaid principal due under the Note bears interest at
    the rate of fifteen percent (15%) per annum, commencing on
    November 3, 2006 with such interest rate increasing by one
    percent (1%) each calendar month, beginning January 1,
    2007, up to a maximum of twenty percent (20%) per annum.

Pursuant to the terms of the security agreement by and between
    the Company and Mr. Leahy dated November 3, 2006 (the
     Security Agreement ), and subject to prior liens, the
    Company granted Mr. Leahy a security interest in any and
    all inventory, accounts, prepaid insurance, supplies, patents,
    patent rights, copyrights, trademarks, trade names, goodwill,
    royalty rights, franchise rights, chattel paper, license rights,
    documents, instruments, general intangibles, payment
    intangibles, letter of credit rights, investment property,
    deposit accounts and any and all other goods, now owned or
    subsequently acquired by the Company, wherever located, to
    secure the Company s payment obligations under the Note.
    There are no covenants associated with the loan.

The Company used $2,200,000 of the proceeds of the Secured Loan
    to satisfy the Company s obligations under its accounts
    receiveable agreement with Beacon Bank of Shorewood, Minnesota
    dated May 29, 2003, as amended. The Company remainder of
    the proceeds are available for general working capital needs.

Note 21  

Summary
    of Quarterly Operating Results (Unaudited)   

A summary of the quarterly operating results for Fiscal 2006 and
    2005 is as follows (unaudited):

66

Table of Contents   

HEI,
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

67

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To the Shareholders, Audit Committee and Board of Directors

HEI, Inc. and subsidiaries

Victoria, MN

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    HEI, Inc. and subsidiaries as of September 2, 2006 and
    August 31, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of
    operations, shareholders  equity and cash flows for the
    years then ended. These consolidated financial statements are
    the responsibility of the company s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
    financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial
    statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit
    also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
    significant estimates made by management as well as evaluating
    the overall consolidated financial statement presentation. We
    believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
    opinion.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements, effective September 1, 2005, HEI, Inc. and
    subsidiaries adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board
    Statement No. 123(R),  Shared Based Payment. 

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
    to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
    position of HEI, Inc. and subsidiaries as of September 2,
    2006 and August 31, 2005 and the results of their
    operations and their cash flows for the years then ended, in
    conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles.

/s/  Virchow,
    Krause & Company, LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

November 6, 2006

68

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Shareholders and the Board of Directors

HEI, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of
    operations, changes in shareholders  equity, and cash flows
    of HEI, Inc. and subsidiaries for the year ended August 31,
    2004. These consolidated financial statements are the
    responsibility of the Company s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
    financial statements based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes
    assessing the accounting principles used and significant
    estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
    financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit
    provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
    to above present fairly, in all material respects, the results
    of operations and cash flows of HEI, Inc. and subsidiaries for
    the year ended August 31, 2004, in conformity with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

/s/  KPMG
    LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

January 12, 2005

69

Table of Contents   

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosures.   

In 2006 and 2005, there were (i) no disagreements with
    Virchow Krause & Company, LLP ( Virchow
    Krause ) on any matter of accounting principles or
    practices, financial statement disclosure or auditing scope or
    procedure which, if not resolved to the satisfaction of Virchow
    Krause, would have caused Virchow Krause to make reference to
    the subject matter in connection with their opinion on our
    consolidated financial statements for such years; and
    (ii) there were no reportable events as defined in
    Item 304(a)(1)(v) of
     Regulation S-K. 

KPMG LLP ( KPMG ) served as our principal accountants
    in Fiscal 2004. On October 1, 2004, we received verbal
    notification from representatives of KPMG of their decision not
    to stand for re-election as our independent registered public
    accounting firm for Fiscal 2005, and that, as a result, our
    client-auditor relationship with KPMG would cease upon
    completion of the audit of our consolidated financial statements
    for Fiscal 2004, and the filing of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for Fiscal 2004, which occurred January 13, 2005.

The report of KPMG on our consolidated statements of operations,
    shareholders  equity and cash flows for the year ended
    Fiscal 2004 did not contain an adverse opinion or disclaimer of
    opinion, nor were such consolidated financial statements
    qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or
    accounting principles.

During Fiscal 2004 and through January 13, 2005, there were
    (i) no disagreements with KPMG on any matter of accounting
    principles or practices, financial statement disclosure or
    auditing scope or procedure which, if not resolved to the
    satisfaction of KPMG, would have caused KPMG to make reference
    to the subject matter in connection with their opinion on our
    consolidated financial statements for such years; and
    (ii) there were no reportable events as defined in
    Item 304(a)(1)(v) of
     Regulation S-K, 
    except that:

As previously disclosed in our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for Fiscal 2003, KPMG cited a material weakness in its
    communication to our Audit Committee on December 12, 2003,
    related to the overriding, by our former President, Chief
    Executive Officer and Chairman and former Chief Financial
    Officer, of internal controls relating to the payment of certain
    expenses not supported by proper documentation. On
    December 12, 2003, KPMG also communicated to our Audit
    Committee reportable conditions related to revenue recognition
    at our Boulder facility, and the lack of substantiation of
    general ledger account balances and computer-based vendor
    payment controls.

On January 12, 2005, KPMG cited three material weaknesses
    in its communication to our Audit Committee, relating to
    (i) the control environment at our Boulder facility and, in
    particular, the lack of segregation of duties and financial
    oversight controls, (ii) revenue recognition and
    (iii) financial reporting. On January 12, 2005, KPMG
    also communicated to our Audit Committee reportable conditions
    related to (A) the lack of a formal journal entry approval
    process, and (B) the lack of access controls to our SAP
    system.

A letter from KPMG was previously filed as an exhibit to our
    August 31, 2004 Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    in accordance with Item 304 (A)(3) of
     Regulation S-X. 

Prior to the identification of such deficiencies, we had already
    undertaken, or were in the process of undertaking, a number of
    steps to establish a proper control environment.

We have discussed our corrective actions and future plans with
    our Audit Committee and we believe the actions taken have
    corrected the deficiencies in internal controls that are
    considered to be a material weakness.

On January 25, 2005, the Audit Committee of our board of
    directors engaged Virchow, Krause & Company, LLP, or
    Virchow Krause, to audit our consolidated financial statements
    for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2005. During our two
    most recent fiscal years, we (i) did not engage Virchow
    Krause to act as either the principal accountant to audit our
    financial statements or as an independent accountant to audit
    any of our significant subsidiaries, (ii) did not consult
    with Virchow Krause on the application of accounting principles
    to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed, or the
    type of audit opinion that might be rendered on our financial
    statements within the meaning of Item 304(a)(2)(i) of
     Regulation S-K, 
    and (iii) did not consult with Virchow Krause on any matter
    that was either the subject of a disagreement, as that term is
    defined in Item 304(a)(1)(iv) of
     Regulation S-K 
    and the related instruction to Item 304 of
     Regulation S-K, 
    or a reportable event, as that term is defined in
    Item 304(a)(1)(v) of
     Regulation S-K. 

70

Table of Contents   

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures.   

During the course of the audit of the consolidated financial
    statements for Fiscal 2006, our independent registered public
    accounting firm, Virchow, Krause & Company, LLP, did
    not identify any deficiencies in internal controls which were
    considered to be  material weaknesses  as defined
    under standards established by the American Institute of
    Certified Public Accountants.

There were no changes in our system of internal controls during
    the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. In July 2006, Mark Thomas
    replaced Timothy Clayton as the Company s Chief Financial
    Officer. Subsequent to the end of Fiscal 2006, Mark Thomas also
    became the Company s Chief Executive Officer upon the
    resignation of Mack Traynor.

During the course of their audit of our consolidated financial
    statements for Fiscal 2004, which was completed on
    January 13, 2005 with the filing our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended August 31, 2004, our former independent
    registered public accounting firm KPMG LLP advised management
    and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors that they had
    identified three deficiencies in internal control which were
    considered to be  material weaknesses  as defined
    under standards established by the American Institute of
    Certified Public Accountants. The material weaknesses related to
    the following: (i) the lack of segregation of duties and
    financial oversight controls at our Boulder facility, which in
    aggregate created an ineffective control environment,
    (ii) several revenue recognition errors that were not
    discovered during our normal closing procedures, and
    (iii) financial reporting. On January 12, 2005, KPMG
    LLP also communicated to our Audit Committee reportable
    conditions related to (A) the lack of a formal journal
    entry approval process, and (B) the lack of access controls
    to our SAP system.

Prior to the identification of such deficiencies, we had already
    undertaken, or were in the process of undertaking, a number of
    steps to establish a proper control environment, including:

the replacement of our Controller at the Boulder facility;

implementing the SAP system for all of our financial reporting,
    including our Boulder facility;

adding controls and moving control related functions to our
    Victoria facility to eliminate opportunities to override
    controls over cash, accounts receivable and accounts payable;

the training of our accounting personnel at a revenue
    recognition seminar;

providing revenue recognition training for contract
    administration personnel;

adding revenue recognition review and approval control functions;

adding staff to accommodate the changes required; and

evaluating access controls needed within the SAP system.

We have discussed our corrective actions and future plans with
    our Audit Committee and we believe the actions outlined above
    have corrected the deficiencies in internal controls that are
    considered to be a material weakness.

Our management team, including our Chief Executive Officer/Chief
    Financial Officer, have conducted an evaluation of the
    effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures (as such
    term is defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the
    end of the period covered by this
     Form 10-K. 
    Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer/Chief
    Financial Officer has concluded that the disclosure controls and
    procedures did provide reasonable assurance of effectiveness as
    of the end of such period.

We are currently in the process of reviewing and formalizing our
    internal controls and procedures for financial reporting in
    accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission s
    rules implementing the internal control reporting requirements
    included in Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
    ( Section 404 ). Changes have been and will be
    made to our internal controls over financial reporting as a
    result of these efforts. We are dedicating significant
    resources, including senior management time and effort, and
    incurring substantial costs in connection with our ongoing
    Section 404 assessment. We are in the process of
    documenting our internal controls and considering whether any
    improvements are necessary for maintaining an effective control
    environment at our

71

Table of Contents   

Company. The evaluation of our internal controls is being
    conducted under the direction of our senior management. In
    addition, our senior management is regularly discussing any
    proposed improvements to our control environment with our Audit
    Committee. We expect to assess our controls and procedures on a
    regular basis. We will continue to work to improve our controls
    and procedures and to educate and train our employees on our
    existing controls and procedures in connection with our efforts
    to maintain an effective controls infrastructure at our Company.
    Despite the mobilization of significant resources for our
    Section 404 assessment, we, however, cannot provide any
    assurance that we will timely complete the evaluation of our
    internal controls or that, even if we do complete the evaluation
    of our internal controls, we will do so in time to permit our
    independent registered public accounting firm to test our
    controls and timely complete their attestation procedures of our
    controls in a manner that will allow us to comply with
    applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules and
    regulations, as recently revised, which presently call for
    compliance by the filing deadline for our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for Fiscal 2007.

In addition, there can be no assurances that our disclosure
    controls and procedures will detect or uncover all failure of
    persons with the Company to report material information
    otherwise required to be set forth in the reports that we file
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

None

PART III  

Item 10.      

Directors
    and Executive Officers of the Registrant.   

Information required under this item will be contained in our
    2007 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation.   

Information required under this item will be contained in our
    2007 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Maters.   

Information required under this item will be contained in our
    2007 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions.   

Information required under this item will be contained in our
    2007 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accounting Fees and Services.   

Information required under this item will be contained in our
    2007 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

72

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits,
    Financial Statement Schedules.   

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this
    report:

(1) Financial Statements   See Part II,
    Item 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

(b)  Exhibits: 

73

Table of Contents   

74

Table of Contents   

Notes to Exhibits above:

(1)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    February 10, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference. 

(2)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Definitive Proxy Statement on
    Schedule 14A for the 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders,
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    January 23, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference. 

(3)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement on
     Form S-2 
    (SEC No.
     33-37285), 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    October 15, 1990, and incorporated herein by reference. 

(4)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Annual Report on
     Form 10-KSB 
    for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1996, and incorporated
    herein by reference. 

(5)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Annual Report on
     Form 10-KSB 
    for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1998, and incorporated
    herein by reference. 

(6)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2002, and incorporated
    herein by reference. 

(7)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    September 4, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference. 

(8)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K/A 
    (Amendment No. 1), filed with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission on April 10, 2003, and incorporated herein by
    reference. 

75

Table of Contents   

(9)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarterly period ended May 31, 2003, and
    incorporated herein by reference. 

(10)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2003, and incorporated
    herein by reference. 

(11)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement on
     Form S-3 
    (SEC No.
     333-115982), 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    May 28, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference. 

(12)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement on
     Form S-3 
    (SEC No.
     333-113419), 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    March 9, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference. 

(13)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K/A 
    (Amendment No. 1), filed with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission on February 19, 2004, and incorporated herein by
    reference. 

(14)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    December 21, 2004. 

(15)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    December 9, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference. 

(16)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    December 10, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference. 

(17)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2004, and incorporated
    herein by reference. 

(18)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2004, and incorporated
    herein by reference. 

(19)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2004, and incorporated
    herein by reference. 

(20)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    January 18, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference. 

(21)  

Form of which was filed as Appendix C to the Definitive
    Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A for the 2006 Annual Meeting
    of the Shareholders filed with the SEC on December 12, 2005 

(22)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC on March 8, 2005. 

(23)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC on May 11, 2005. 

(24)  

Filed as Exhibit 3.6 to the Registration Statement on
     Form S-1 
    filed with the SEC on June 23, 2005. 

(25)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2005, and incorporated
    herein by reference. 

(26)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC on January 5, 2005. 

(27)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC on January 13, 2005. 

(28)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on Amendment
    No. 1 to
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC on February 1, 2005. 

(29)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on Amendment
    No. 1 to
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC on March 4, 2005. 

(30)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC on January 13, 2006. 

(31)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC on April 18, 2006. 

(32)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC on June 22, 2006. 

(33)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC on June 30, 2006. 

(34)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC on July 11, 2006. 

(35)  

Filed as an exhibit to the Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC on November 3, 2006. 

(36)  

Filed as Appendix B to the Definitive Proxy Statement on
    Schedule 14A for the 2006 Annual Meeting of the
    Shareholders filed with the SEC on December 12, 2005. 

*  

Denotes management contract or compensation plan or arrangement. 

Filed herewith. 

76

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has
    duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
    undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

HEI, INC.

By: 

/s/   MARK
    B. THOMAS 

Mark B. Thomas

Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial
    Officer 

Date: November 30, 2006

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
    below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
    in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

77

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO
    EXHIBITS  

The
    following exhibits are filed with this annual Report on
     Form 10-K:   

78

<EX-10.54>
 2
 c10441exv10w54.htm
 SEVERANCE AND RELEASE AGREEMENT

exv10w54 

Exhibit 10.54  

Severance
    and Release Agreement dated October 20, 2006 between HEI,
    Inc. and Mack V. Traynor III  

SEVERANCE
    AND RELEASE AGREEMENT  

In exchange for the promises and covenants contained herein,
    HEI, Inc. ( Company ) and Mack V. Traynor III
    ( Employee ) hereby agree as follows:

1.   Definitions.    We intend all
    words used in this Severance Agreement ( Agreement )
    to have their plain meanings in ordinary English. Specific terms
    we use in this Agreement have the following meanings:

A.   Employee  , as used herein, shall include
    the undersigned Employee and anyone who has obtained any legal
    rights or claims through the undersigned Employee.

B.   Company  , as used herein, shall at all
    times mean HEI, Inc., its parent company, its subsidiaries,
    successors and assigns, its affiliated and predecessor
    companies, their successors and assigns, their affiliated and
    predecessor companies and the present or former directors,
    shareholders, officers, employees, representatives and agents
    (including, without limitation, its accountants and attorneys)
    of any of them, whether in their individual or official
    capacities, and the current and former trustees or
    administrators of any pension or other benefit plan applicable
    to employees or former employees of Company, in their official
    or individual capacities.

C.   Employee s Claims  , as used herein,
    means all of the rights Employee individually and on behalf of
    his spouse, heirs, administrators, executors, assigns has now to
    any relief of any kind from Company whether or not Employee now
    knows about those rights, arising out of his employment with
    Company and member of the Board of Directors, and his
    resignation of employment and as a member of the Company s
    Board of Directors, including, but not limited to, claims
    arising under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, as
    amended by the Older Worker Benefit Protection Act; the
    Minnesota Human Rights Act; the Americans with
    Disabilities Act; Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of
    1964, as amended; claims under the Family Medical Leave Act; the
    Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended; the Worker
    Adjustment and Retraining Act, the Sarbanes Oxley Act; the
    Minnesota Whistleblower Statute; or other federal, state or
    local civil rights laws; claims for breach of contract; fraud or
    misrepresentation; defamation, intentional or negligent
    infliction of emotional distress; breach of covenant of good
    faith and fair dealing; promissory estoppel; negligence;
    wrongful termination of employment; claims pursuant to that
    certain Employment Agreement dated April 19, 2004 between
    Employee and Company; claims for any form of compensation,
    including without limitation, claims for severance, salary,
    bonus, and vacation pay; and any other claims for unlawful
    employment practices.

2.   Resignation.    Company and
    Employee agree that Employee will voluntarily resign his
    employment as Chief Executive Officer and President of the
    Company and as a member of Company s Board of Directors
    effective Friday, October 20, 2006 and the Company has
    accepted his resignation effective Friday, October 20, 2006.

3.   Company s Obligations and Severance
    Agreements.    In consideration for
    Employee s promises contained herein, specifically
    including, but not limited to the release of all claims by
    Employee and Employee s promises to refrain from:
    (i) competing with the Company; (ii) soliciting the
    Company s clients and employees; and (iii) disclosing
    confidential information and trade secrets of Company, Company
    agrees as follows:

A.   Severance Payment.    Company
    agrees to pay to Employee a Severance payment of $145,000
    ( Severance Payment ). This Severance Payment will be
    payable in one lump sum after the expiration of the Rescission
    Periods, as hereinafter defined. The Severance Payment shall be
    subject to federal and state withholding taxes and FICA.

B.   Stock Options/Restricted
    Shares.    Company acknowledges and agrees that
    Employee shall have a period of 90 days from the date of
    this Agreement to exercise the following stock option agreements:

(i) Option agreement dated March 19, 2003.

(ii) Option agreement dated December 19, 2001.

(iii) Option agreement dated July 1, 2005.

Company and Employee agree that all remaining stock options and
    restricted shares have not vested and may be cancelled.

C.   Medical Insurance Benefits and
    Benefits.    Company, pursuant to federal and
    state law, will provide, for a period of eighteen
    (18) months following the effective date of Employee s
    termination ( COBRA Period ), a continuation of the
    group medical insurance coverage previously provided to Employee
    by Company. Through April 19, 2007, Company will pay that
    portion of the premium for group medical insurance that it paid
    during Employee s employment. After April 19, 2007,
    Employee will be required to pay for such benefits for the
    remainder of the COBRA Period, should Employee elect to continue
    COBRA coverage. Company shall also, through April 19, 2007,
    maintain and pay for all the benefits provided under the
    April 19, 2004 Employment Agreement between Employee and
    Company, a copy of which is attached hereto as
     Exhibit A  to this Agreement, including dental
    insurance and supplemental life insurance coverage.

D.   Computer, Blackberry and Cellular
    Phone.    Employee shall be allowed to retain
    possession of the Company computer (once the Company has
    securely erased all Company documentation), blackberry and
    cellular phone assigned to him during his employment with the
    Company. The Company will continue service on the Company
    blackberry and cellular phone assigned to Employee until
    October 31, 2006.

E.   Non-Disparagement.    Company
    agrees that its officers, directors and senior management shall
    not disparage or defame Employee in any respect.

F.   Remedies.    Company acknowledges
    that any breach of any of the promises set forth in
    Section 3.E. will cause Employee irreparable harm for which
    there is no adequate remedy at law and Company therefore
    consents to the issuance of any injunction in favor of Employee
    enjoining the breach of any of those promises by any court of
    competent jurisdiction. Company further agrees that the remedies
    provided for herein are in addition to, and are not to be
    construed as replacements for, or a limitation of, rights and
    remedies otherwise available to Employee.

4.   Employee Obligations.    As
    material inducement to Company in entering into this Agreement
    and providing the consideration described in Section 3,
    Employee hereby agrees as follows:

A.   Release.    Employee agrees to
    release all Employee s Claims. Employee acknowledges that
    the money and promises received and to be received by Employee
    are in exchange for the release of Employee s Claims.
    Employee is not releasing any rights
     and/or 
    obligations he may have as holder of shares
     and/or 
    options of the Company and Employee s rights
     and/or 
    obligations in any shares
     and/or 
    options of the Company shall be controlled by the terms and
    conditions of applicable stock and option agreements, if any,
    entered into between Company and Employee.

B.   Covenant Not To Sue.    Employee
    agrees that he will not initiate any litigation to pursue claims
    which Employee released in this Section 4.A. This covenant
    does not apply to litigation challenging the validity of this
    Section 4.A. Further, Employee agrees to pay Company s
    attorneys fees if Employee breaches the covenant not to sue
    contained in this Section 4.B.

C.   Company Property.    Unless
    otherwise stated herein, Employee will return all property
    belonging to Company to Company immediately upon the execution
    of this Agreement, whether such property is currently on or off
    the premises of Company, including, without limitation, any and
    all Company documents on the computer hardware being retained by
    Employee.

D.   Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation, Confidentiality
    and Inventions.    Employee acknowledges and
    confirms his continuing obligations to the Company to
    (1) refrain from competition and solicitations,
    (2) maintain the confidentiality of the Company s
    Confidential Information and (3) disclose and transfer
    ownership, if necessary, of all Inventions, all of which shall
    survive Employee s separation from employment with the
    Company, as more fully set forth in Sections 6, 7, 8
    and 9 of the Agreement attached as
     Exhibit A.   Notwithstanding the foregoing,
    the term of such obligations shall expire one year from the date
    of this Agreement.

E.   Confidentiality of
    Agreement.    Employee agrees that he will keep
    the terms and conditions of this Agreement strictly confidential
    for a period of at least one year from the date of this
    Agreement except that Employee may disclose the terms and
    conditions of this Agreement to his spouse, if any, attorney,
    tax preparer, government agencies, or as required by law.
    Employee agrees that in the event that Employee discloses any of

the terms of this Agreement, including the fact of payment other
    than as set forth above, he shall be liable to Company as set
    forth in Section 4. of this Agreement and for any and all
    injuries or damages sustained by Company including costs,
    disbursements and attorneys  fees incurred by Company as a
    direct result of Employee s disclosure.

F.   Non-Disparagement.    Employee
    agrees that he shall not disparage or defame Company in any
    respect.

G.   Remedies.    Employee acknowledges
    that any breach of any of the promises set forth in
    Sections 4.C., 4.D., 4.E. and 4.F. will cause Company
    irreparable harm for which there is no adequate remedy at law
    and Employee therefore consents to the issuance of any
    injunction in favor of Company enjoining the breach of any of
    those promises by any court of competent jurisdiction. If any
    promise made by Employee in this Section 4 should be held
    to be unenforceable because of its scope or duration, or the
    area or subject matter covered thereby, Employee agrees that the
    court making such determination shall have the power to reduce
    or modify the scope, duration, subject matter or area of that
    promise to the extent that allows the maximum scope, duration,
    subject matter or area permitted by applicable law. Employee
    further agrees that the remedies provided for herein are in
    addition to, and are not to be construed as replacements for, or
    a limitation of, rights and remedies otherwise available to
    Company.

5.   Employee s
    Understandings.    Employee acknowledges and
    represents that:

A. Employee understands that he has the right to consult
    with an attorney regarding the meaning and effect of this
    Agreement.

B. Employee also understands that he has a period of
    twenty-one (21) calendar days from the date on which he
    receives an unsigned copy of this Agreement in which to consider
    whether or not to sign this Agreement and that, having been
    advised of that entitlement, he may elect to sign this Agreement
    at any time prior to the expiration of that time period.

C. Employee understands that he may rescind (that is,
    cancel) within seven (7) calendar days of signing the
    Agreement the provisions of Section 4.A. of this Agreement
    with respect to claims arising under the Age Discrimination in
    Employment Act ( ADEA Rescission Period ) and that he
    may rescind within fifteen (15) calendar days of
    signing the Agreement the provisions of Section 4.A. of
    this Agreement with respect to claims arising under the
    Minnesota Human Rights Act ( MHRA Rescission Period )
    (collectively,  Rescission Periods ). To be effective,
    rescission must be in writing, delivered to Company at HEI,
    Inc., PO Box 5000, 1495 Steiger Lake Lane, Victoria, MN
    55386, Attn: Mark Thomas within the applicable rescission
    period, or sent to Company, at such address, by certified mail,
    return receipt requested, postmarked within the applicable
    rescission period.

6.   Cancellation of Agreement By
    Company.    If Employee exercises his right of
    rescission under Section 5.C. of this Agreement, Company
    will have the right, exercisable by written notice delivered to
    Employee, to terminate this Agreement in its entirety, in which
    event Company will have no obligation whatsoever to Employee
    hereunder. If Employee exercises his right of rescission under
    Section 5.C. of this Agreement, and Company does not
    exercise its right to terminate this Agreement hereunder, the
    remaining provisions of this Agreement (including specifically
    the remaining provisions of Section 4 of this Agreement)
    shall remain valid and continue in full force and effect.

7.   Performance By
    Employee.    Nothing contained herein shall
    operate as a waiver or an election of remedies by Company should
    Employee fail to perform any duty or obligation imposed upon him
    hereunder. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the
    contrary, this Agreement and the duties and obligations of
    Employee hereunder shall continue in full force and effect
    irrespective of any violation of any term or provision of this
    Agreement by Employee.

8.   No Admission Of Liability.    The
    Parties agree that this Agreement shall not be considered an
    admission of liability by Company. Company expressly denies that
    it is in any way liable to Employee or that it has engaged in
    any wrongdoing with respect to Employee.

9.   Employee
    Acknowledgments.    Employee acknowledges and
    represents that: (a) he has read this Agreement and
    understands its consequences; (b) he has received adequate
    opportunity to read and consider this Agreement; (c) he has
    determined to execute this Agreement of his own free will and
    acknowledges that he has not relied upon any statements or
    explanations made by Company regarding this Agreement; and
    (d) the promises of

Company made in this Agreement constitute fair and adequate
    consideration for the promises, releases and agreements made by
    Employee in this Agreement.

10.   Entire Agreement.    This
    Agreement, including any exhibits attached hereto or documents
    expressly referred to herein, contains the entire agreement
    between Company and Employee and supersedes and cancels any and
    all other agreements, whether oral or in writing, between
    Company and Employee with respect to the matters referred to
    herein.

11.   Governing Law.    This Agreement
    shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of
    the State of Minnesota.

12.   Effective Date.    This Agreement
    was originally offered to Employee on or about October 20,
    2006. Employee shall have until the close of business on
    November 10, 2006 to accept this Agreement. If Employee
    desires to accept this Agreement, Employee shall execute the
    Agreement and return the same to Company at the address set
    forth in Section 5.C. hereof. If Employee does not so
    accept this Agreement, this Agreement, and the offer contained
    herein, shall be null and void as of the close of business on
    November 20, 2006.

(The remainder of the page is intentionally left blank.) 

13.   Counterparts.    This Agreement
    may be executed in counterparts with an executed counterpart to
    be delivered to the other party. Each such executed counterpart
    shall be deemed an original but shall constitute one and the
    same instrument.

HEI, Inc.

By: 

/s/  Mark
    B. Thomas 

Its: CFO

Dated: 10-20-06

/s/  Mack
    V. Traynor III

Mack V. Traynor III

Dated: 10-20-06

</EX-10.54>

<EX-10.57>
 3
 c10441exv10w57.htm
 2006 AMENDMENT TO 1998 STOCK OPTION PLAN

exv10w57 

Exhibit 10.57  

2006 AMENDMENT
    TO THE 
    HEI, INC. 
    1998 STOCK OPTION PLAN  

The HEI, Inc. 1998 Stock Option Plan (the  Plan ) was
    adopted by the Board of Directors of HEI, Inc. (the
     Company ) in November 1998 and approved by the
    shareholders of the Company at the 1999 Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders. As originally adopted and approved by
    shareholders, 400,000 shares of Common Stock were reserved
    for issuance under the Plan. Subsequently, the Board and
    shareholders approved increases in the number of shares of
    Common Stock to be issued under the Plan of 200,000, 400,000,
    300,000 and 350,000, respectively, so that the total number of
    shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan is
    1,650,000. This Amendment is adopted in order to amend the Plan
    to reserve an additional 350,000 shares of Common Stock for
    issuance under the Plan.

A.   Amendment.   Section 3(a) of
    the Plan is hereby amended to read as follows:

3. Shares Available Under the Plan.

(a) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 9 of
    this Plan, the number of Common Shares which may be
    (i) issued or transferred upon the exercise of Option
    Rights or Appreciation Rights, or (ii) awarded as
    Restricted Shares and released from substantial risk of
    forfeiture thereof or Deferred Shares, shall not in the
    aggregate exceed 2,000,000 Common Shares, which may be Common
    Shares of original issuance or Common Shares held in treasury or
    a combination thereof. For the purposes of this Section 3
    (a):

(i) Upon payment in cash of the benefit provided by any
    award granted under this Plan, any Common Shares that were
    covered by that award shall again be available for issuance or
    transfer hereunder; and

(ii) Upon the full or partial payment of any Option Price
    by the transfer to the Company of Common Shares or upon
    satisfaction of tax withholding obligations in connection with
    any such exercise or any other payment made or benefit realized
    under this Plan by the transfer or relinquishment of Common
    Shares, there shall be deemed to have been issued or transferred
    under this Plan only the net number of Common Shares actually
    issued or transferred by the Company less the number of Common
    Shares so transferred or relinquished. 

B.   Effective Date.   This Amendment
    shall be effective as of the date of approval by the
    shareholders of the Company at the Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders to be held in January 2006.

</EX-10.57>

<EX-21>
 4
 c10441exv21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

exv21 

Exhibit 21  

Subsidiaries
    of the Registrant  

Percentage of 

State of Incorporation 

Parent 

Subsidiary 

Ownership 

or Organization 

HEI, Inc. 

Cross Technology, Inc.

100%

Minnesota

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 c10441exv23w1.htm
 CONSENT OF VIRCHOW, KRAUSE & COMPANY, LLP

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1  

CONSENT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
    Statements on
     Form S-3 
    (File
     No. 333-70426, 
     333-40026, 
     333-104830, 
     333-113419 
    and
     333-115982), 
     Form S-8 
    (File
     No. 333-86338, 
     333-95529, 
     333-95551, 
     333-49489, 
     33-33322, 
     33-46928  and
     33-46929), 
    and
     Form S-1 
    (File
     No. 333-126079) 
    of HEI, Inc. and subsidiaries of our report dated
    November 6, 2006, which appears on page 61 of this
    annual report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended September 2, 2006.

/s/  VIRCHOW,
    KRAUSE & COMPANY, LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

November 28, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 6
 c10441exv23w2.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

exv23w2 

Exhibit 23.2  

CONSENT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors

HEI, Inc.:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration
    statements (Nos.,
     333-70426, 
     333-40026, 
     333-104830, 
     333-113419, 
    and
     333-115982) 
    on
     Form S-3, 
    (Nos.
     333-86338, 
     333-95529, 
     333-95551, 
     333-49489, 
     33-33322, 
     33-46928, 
    and
     33-46929)  on
     Form S-8, 
    and
     (No. 333-126079) 
    on
     Form S-1 
    of HEI, Inc. of our report dated January 12, 2005, with
    respect to consolidated statements of operations,
    shareholders  equity, and cash flows for the year ended
    August 31, 2004, which report appears in the Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended September 2, 2006, of HEI, Inc.

/s/  KPMG
    LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

December 1, 2006

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 c10441exv31w1.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND CFO

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1  

Certifications  

I, Mark B. Thomas, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of HEI, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

(b) (Intentionally omitted)

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Mark B. Thomas

Mark B. Thomas

Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer

Date: November 30, 2006

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 c10441exv32w1.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND CFO

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1  

CERTIFICATION
    PURSUANT TO 
    18 U.S.C.  1350, 
    AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
    SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In connection with the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of HEI, Inc. (the  Company ) for the fiscal year ended
    September 2, 2006, as filed with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
     Report ), I, Mark B. Thomas, Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify,
    pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company.

Mark B. Thomas

Mark B. Thomas

Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer

Date: November 30, 2006

A signed original of this written statement required by
    Section 906 has been provided to HEI, Inc. and will be
    retained by HEI, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and
    Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.1>

