<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061213_10-K_edgar_data_63296_0000063296-06-000066_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2531370</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>290541</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1819821</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>52</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000063296-06-000066.hdr.sgml : 20061213
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061213171543
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000063296-06-000066
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061213
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061213

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MATTHEWS INTERNATIONAL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000063296
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NONFERROUS FOUNDRIES (CASTINGS) [3360]
		IRS NUMBER:				250644320
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			PA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-09115
		FILM NUMBER:		061274885

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		TWO NORTHSHORE CENTER
		CITY:			PITTSBURGH
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			15212-5851
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4124428200

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		TWO NORTHSHORE CENTER
		CITY:			PITTSBURGH
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			15212-5851

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	MATTHEWS JAMES H & CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19780823

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 L/KhcUCNBVD3Rm5HKR9eGzLSD3emYtF2QJbfewyn000uUaGuNnJJ2BsRmjo6Igcq
 fmpx6gi/wSx6DLPyF17YIA==

 0000063296-06-000066.txt : 20061213

10-K
 1
 form10k-2006.htm
 MATTHEWS 2006 FORM 10K

Matthews 2006 Form 10K

UNITED
      STATES 

      SECURITIES
      AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

      Washington,
      D. C. 20549 

      FORM
      10-K 

For
      the
      fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 

      Commission
      File Number 0-09115 

MATTHEWS
      INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 

      (Exact
      name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

COMMONWEALTH
                OF PENNSYLVANIA 

25-0644320 

(State
                or other jurisdiction of 

(I.R.S.
                Employer 

incorporation
                or organization) 

Identification
                No.) 

TWO
                NORTHSHORE CENTER, PITTSBURGH, PA 

15212-5851 

(Address
                of principal executive offices) 

(Zip
                Code) 

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Name
                of each exchange 

Title
                of each class 

on
                which registered 

Class
                A Common Stock, $1.00 par value 

NASDAQ
                National Market System 

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
      in
      Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  

      Yes
        x     No
        o    

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
      Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. 

        Yes
        o     No
        x 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
      be
      filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
      the
      preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
      to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
      for
      the past 90 days.   x 

Indicate
      by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405a of
      Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
      of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
      incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
      this
      Form 10-K.   o 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
      accelerated filer or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
      filer  and  large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large
      accelerated filer   x        
      Accelerated filer   o        
      Non-accelerated filer   o 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
      12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes          No   x    

The
      aggregate market value of the Class A Common Stock outstanding and held by
      non-affiliates of the registrant, based upon the closing sale price of the
      Class
      A Common Stock on the NASDAQ National Market System on March 31, 2006, the
      last
      business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter,
      was approximately $1.2 billion. 

As
      of
      November 30, 2006, shares of common stock outstanding were: 

      Class
      A
      Common Stock 31,653,186 shares 

Documents
      incorporated by reference: Specified portions of the Proxy Statement for the
      2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part
      III
      of this Report. 

The
      index
      to exhibits is on pages 73-75. 

PART
      I 

CAUTIONARY
      STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION: 

Any
      forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
      (specifically those contained in Item 1, "Business", Item 1A,  Risk Factors  and
      Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
      of Operations") are included in this report pursuant to the "safe harbor"
      provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such
      forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties
      that may cause the Company's actual results in future periods to be materially
      different from management's expectations. Although Matthews International
      Corporation ( Matthews  or the  Company ) believes that the expectations
      reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can
      be
      given that such expectations will prove correct. Factors that could cause the
      Company's results to differ materially from the results discussed in such
      forward-looking statements principally include changes in domestic or
      international economic conditions, changes in foreign currency exchange rates,
      changes in the cost of materials used in the manufacture of the Company s
      products, changes in death rates, changes in product demand or pricing as a
      result of consolidation in the industries in which the Company operates, changes
      in product demand or pricing as a result of domestic or international
      competitive pressures, unknown risks in connection with the Company's
      acquisitions, and technological factors beyond the Company's control. In
      addition, although the Company does not have any customers that would be
      considered individually significant to consolidated sales, changes in the
      distribution of the Company s products or the potential loss of one or more of
      the Company s larger customers could be considered a risk factor. 

ITEM
                1. 

BUSINESS. 

Matthews,
      founded in 1850 and incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1902, is a designer,
      manufacturer and marketer principally of memorialization products and brand
      solutions. Memorialization products consist primarily of bronze memorials and
      other memorialization products, caskets and cremation equipment for the cemetery
      and funeral home industries. Brand solutions include graphics imaging products
      and services, marking products, and merchandising solutions. The Company's
      products and operations are comprised of six business segments: Bronze, Casket,
      Cremation, Graphics Imaging, Marking Products and Merchandising Solutions.
      The
      Bronze segment is a leading manufacturer of cast bronze memorials and other
      memorialization products, cast and etched architectural products and is a
      leading builder of mausoleums in the United States. The Casket segment is a
      leading casket manufacturer in the United States and produces a wide variety
      of
      wood and metal caskets. The Cremation segment is a leading designer and
      manufacturer of cremation equipment and cremation caskets primarily in North
      America. The Graphics Imaging segment manufactures and provides printing plates,
      pre-press services and imaging services for the corrugated and primary packaging
      industries. The Marking Products segment designs, manufactures and distributes
      a
      wide range of marking and coding equipment and consumables, and industrial
      automation products for identifying, tracking and conveying various consumer
      and
      industrial products, components and packaging containers. The Merchandising
      Solutions segment designs and manufactures merchandising displays and systems
      and provides creative merchandising and marketing solutions services.

At
      November 30, 2006, the Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries had
      approximately 3,900 employees. The Company's principal executive offices are
      located at Two NorthShore Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15212, its telephone
      number is (412) 442-8200 and its internet website is www.matw.com. 

The
      following table sets forth reported sales and operating profit for the Company's
      business segments for the past three fiscal years. Detailed financial
      information relating to business segments and to domestic and international
      operations is presented in Note 15 (Segment Information) to the Consolidated
      Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
      Prior year amounts contained in this table have been restated for the
      retrospective adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )
      No. 123 (revised 2004) ( SFAS No. 123 (R) ) ( Share-Based Payment ). See Note 8
      of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

2 

ITEM
                1. 

BUSINESS,
                continued 

In
      fiscal
      2006, approximately 77% of the Company's sales were made from the United States,
      and 20%, 2% and 1% were made from Europe, Canada and Australia, respectively.
      Bronze segment products are sold throughout the world with the segment's
      principal operations located in the United States, Italy, Canada and Australia.
      Casket segment products are primarily sold in the United States and Canada.
      Cremation segment products and services are sold primarily in North America,
      as
      well as Asia, Australia, and Europe. Products and services of the Graphics
      Imaging segment are sold primarily in the United States and Europe. The Marking
      Products segment sells equipment and consumables directly to industrial
      consumers and distributors in the United States and internationally through
      the
      Company's wholly-owned subsidiaries in Canada and Sweden and through other
      foreign distributors. Matthews owns a minority interest in Marking Products
      distributors in Asia, Australia, France, Germany, the Netherlands and the
      United Kingdom. Merchandising Solutions segment products and services are
      sold principally in the United States. 

3 

ITEM
                1. 

BUSINESS,
                continued 

MEMORIALIZATION
      PRODUCTS AND MARKETS: 

Bronze: 

The
      Bronze segment manufactures and markets products used primarily in the cemetery
      and funeral home industries. The segment's products, which are sold principally
      in the United States, Europe, Canada and Australia, include cast bronze
      memorials and other memorialization products used primarily in cemeteries.
      The
      segment also manufactures and markets cast and etched architectural products,
      that are produced from bronze, aluminum and other metals, which are used to
      identify or commemorate people, places, events and accomplishments. 

Memorial
      products, which comprise the majority of the Bronze segment's sales, include
      flush bronze memorials, flower vases, crypt letters, cremation urns, niche
      units, cemetery features and statues, along with other related products and
      services. Flush bronze memorials are bronze plaques which contain personal
      information about a deceased individual such as name, birth date, death date
      and
      emblems. These memorials are used in cemeteries as an alternative to upright
      and
      flush granite monuments. The memorials are even or "flush" with the ground
      and
      therefore are preferred by many cemeteries for easier mowing and general
      maintenance. In order to provide products for the granite memorial and mausoleum
      markets, the Company's other memorial products include community and family
      mausoleums, granite monuments and benches, bronze plaques, letters, emblems,
      vases, lights and photoceramics that can be affixed to granite monuments,
      mausoleums, crypts and flush memorials. Matthews is a leading builder of
      mausoleums within North America. Principal customers for memorial products
      are
      cemeteries and memorial parks, which in turn sell the Company's products to
      the
      consumer. 

Customers
      of the Bronze segment can also purchase memorials and vases on a  pre-need 
basis. The  pre-need  concept permits families to arrange for these purchases in
      advance of their actual need. Upon request, the Company will manufacture the
      memorial to the customer s specifications (e.g., name and birth date) and place
      it in storage for future delivery. All memorials in storage have been paid
      in
      full with title conveyed to each pre-need purchaser. 

The
      Bronze segment manufactures a full line of memorial products for cremation,
      including urns in a variety of sizes, styles and shapes. The segment also
      manufactures bronze and granite niche units, which are comprised of numerous
      compartments used to display cremation urns in mausoleums and churches. In
      addition, the Company also markets turnkey cremation gardens, which include
      the
      design and all related products for a cremation memorial garden. 

Architectural
      products include cast bronze and aluminum plaques, etchings and letters that
      are
      used to recognize, commemorate and identify people, places, events and
      accomplishments. The Company's plaques are frequently used to identify the
      name
      of a building or the names of companies or individuals located within a
      building. Such products are also used to commemorate events or accomplishments,
      such as military service or financial donations. The principal markets for
      the
      segment's architectural products are corporations, fraternal organizations,
      contractors, churches, hospitals, schools and government agencies. These
      products are sold to and distributed through a network of independent dealers
      including sign suppliers, awards and recognition companies, and trophy
      dealers. 

Raw
      materials used by the Bronze segment consist principally of bronze and aluminum
      ingot, sheet metal, coating materials, photopolymers and construction materials
      and are generally available in adequate supply. Ingot is obtained from various
      North American, European and Australian smelters. 

Competition
      from other bronze memorialization product manufacturers is on the basis of
      reputation, product quality, delivery, price and design availability. The
      Company also competes with upright granite monument and flush granite memorial
      providers. The Company believes that its superior quality, broad product lines,
      innovative designs, delivery capability, customer responsiveness, experienced
      personnel and consumer-oriented merchandising systems are competitive advantages
      in its markets. Competition in the mausoleum construction industry includes
      various construction companies throughout North America and is on the basis
      of
      design, quality and price. Competitors in the architectural market are numerous
      and include companies that manufacture cast and painted signs, plastic
      materials, sand-blasted wood and other fabricated products.  

4 

ITEM
                1. 

BUSINESS,
                continued 

Casket: 

The
      Casket segment is a leading manufacturer of caskets in the United States. The
      segment produces two types of caskets: metal and wood. Caskets can be customized
      with many different options such as color, interior design, handles and trim
      in
      order to accommodate specific religious, ethnic or other personal
      preferences. 

Metal
      caskets are made from various gauges of cold rolled steel, stainless steel,
      copper and bronze. Metal caskets are generally categorized by whether the casket
      is non-gasketed or gasketed, and by material (i.e., bronze, copper, or steel)
      and in the case of steel, by the gauge, or thickness, of the metal. 

The
      segment's wood caskets are manufactured from nine different species of wood,
      as
      well as from veneer. The species of wood used are poplar, pine, ash, oak, pecan,
      maple, cherry, walnut and mahogany. The Casket segment is a leading manufacturer
      of all-wood constructed caskets, which are manufactured using pegged and
      dowelled construction, and include no metal parts. All-wood constructed caskets
      are preferred by certain religious groups. 

The
      segment also produces casket components. Casket components include stamped
      metal
      parts, metal locking mechanisms for gasketed metal caskets, adjustable beds,
      interior panels and plastic ornamental hardware for the exterior of the casket.
      Metal casket parts are produced by stamping cold rolled steel, stainless steel,
      copper and bronze sheets into casket body parts. Locking mechanisms and
      adjustable beds are produced by stamping and assembling a variety of steel
      parts. Certain ornamental hardware styles are produced from injection molded
      plastic. The segment purchases from sawmills and lumber distributors various
      species of uncured wood, which it dries and cures. The cured wood is processed
      into casket components.  

Additionally,
      the segment provides assortment planning and merchandising and display products
      to funeral service businesses. These products assist funeral service
      professionals in providing value and satisfaction to their client
      families. 

The
      primary materials required for casket manufacturing are cold rolled steel and
      lumber. The segment also purchases copper, bronze, stainless steel, cloth,
      ornamental hardware and coating materials. Purchase orders or supply agreements
      are typically negotiated with large, integrated steel producers that have
      demonstrated timely delivery, high quality material and competitive prices.
      Lumber is purchased from a number of sawmills and lumber distributors. The
      Company purchases most of its lumber from sawmills within 150 miles of its
      wood
      casket manufacturing facility in York, Pennsylvania. 

Prior
      to
      July 2005, the segment marketed its casket products primarily through
      independent distributors. With the acquisition of Milso Industries Corporation
      in July 2005, the segment significantly expanded its internal casket
      distribution capabilities. The segment now markets its casket products in the
      United States through a combination of internal and independent casket
      distribution facilities. The Company currently operates over 40 distribution
      centers in the United States.  

The
      casket business is highly competitive. The segment competes with other
      manufacturers on the basis of product quality, price, service, design
      availability and breadth of product line. The segment provides a line of casket
      products that it believes is as comprehensive as any of its major competitors.
      Although there are a large number of casket industry participants, the Casket
      segment and its two largest competitors account for a substantial portion of
      the
      finished caskets produced in the United States.  

Historically,
      the segment's operations have experienced seasonal variations. Generally, casket
      sales are highest in the second quarter and lowest in the fourth quarter of
      each
      fiscal year. These fluctuations are due in part to the seasonal variance in
      the
      death rate, with a greater number of deaths generally occurring in cold weather
      months. 

5 

ITEM
      1.     BUSINESS,
      continued 

Cremation: 

The
      Cremation segment has four major groups of products and services: cremation
      equipment, cremation caskets, equipment service and repair, and supplies and
      urns.  

The
      Cremation segment is the leading designer and manufacturer of cremation
      equipment in North America. Cremation equipment includes systems for cremation
      of humans and animals, as well as equipment for processing the cremated remains
      and other related equipment such as handling equipment (tables, cooler racks,
      vacuums). Cremation equipment and products are sold primarily to funeral homes,
      cemeteries, crematories, animal disposers and veterinarians within North
      America, Asia, Australia and Europe. 

Cremation
      casket products consist primarily of three types of caskets: cloth-covered
      wood,
      cloth-covered corrugated material and paper veneer-covered particleboard. These
      products are generally used in cremation and are marketed principally to funeral
      homes through independent distributors in the United States. 

Service
      and repair consists of maintenance work performed on various makes and models
      of
      cremation equipment. This work can be as simple as routine maintenance or as
      complex as complete on-site reconstruction. The principal markets for these
      services are the owners and operators of cremation equipment. These services
      are
      marketed principally in North America through Company sales representatives.

Supplies
      and urns are consumable items associated with cremation operations. Supplies
      distributed by the segment include operator safety equipment, identification
      discs and combustible roller tubes. Urns distributed by the segment include
      products ranging from plastic containers to bronze urns for cremated remains.
      These products are marketed primarily in North America. 

Raw
      materials used by the Cremation segment consist principally of structural steel,
      sheet metal, electrical components, cloth, wood, particleboard, corrugated
      materials, paper veneer and masonry materials and are generally available in
      adequate supply from numerous suppliers. 

The
      Company competes with several manufacturers in the cremation equipment market
      principally on the basis of product quality and price. The Cremation segment
      and
      its three largest competitors account for a substantial portion of the domestic
      cremation equipment market. The cremation casket business is highly competitive.
      The segment competes with other cremation casket manufacturers on the basis
      of
      product quality, price and design availability. Although there are a large
      number of casket industry participants, the Cremation segment and its two
      largest competitors account for a substantial portion of the cremation caskets
      sold in the United States. 

Historically,
      the segment s cremation casket operations have experienced seasonal variations.
      These fluctuations are due in part to the seasonal variance in the death rate,
      with a greater number of deaths generally occurring in cold weather
      months. 

BRAND
      SOLUTIONS PRODUCTS AND MARKETS: 

Graphics
      Imaging: 

The
      Graphics Imaging segment provides brand management, pre-press services, printing
      plates and creative design services to the primary packaging and corrugated
      industries. The corrugated packaging industry consists of manufacturers of
      printed corrugated containers. The primary packaging industry consists of
      manufacturers of printed packaging materials such as boxes, flexible packaging,
      folding cartons and bags commonly seen at retailers of consumer
      goods. 

6 

ITEM
      1.     BUSINESS,
      continued  

The
      principal products and services of this segment include brand management,
      pre-press graphics services, printing plates, print process assistance, print
      production management, digital asset management, content management, and package
      design. These products and services are used by brand owners and packaging
      manufacturers to develop and print packaging graphics that identify and help
      sell the product in the marketplace. Other packaging graphics can include
      nutritional information, directions for product use, consumer warning statements
      and UPC codes. The corrugated packaging manufacturer produces printed containers
      from corrugated sheets. Using the Company's products, this sheet is printed
      and
      die cut to make a finished container. The primary packaging manufacturer
      produces printed packaging from paper, film, foil and other composite materials
      used to display, protect and market the product. 

The
      segment offers a wide array of value-added services and products. These include
      print process and print production management services; pre-press preparation,
      which includes computer-generated art, film and proofs; plate mounting
      accessories and various press aids; and rotary and flat cutting dies used to
      cut
      out intricately designed containers and point-of-purchase displays. The segment
      also provides creative digital graphics services to brand owners and packaging
      markets.  

The
      Company works closely with manufacturers to provide the proper printing plates
      and tooling used to print the packaging to the user's specifications. The
      segment's printing plate products are made principally from photopolymer resin
      and sheet materials. Upon customer request, plates can be pre-mounted
      press-ready in a variety of configurations that maximize print quality and
      minimize press set-up time. 

The
      Graphics Imaging segment customer base consists primarily of packaging industry
      converters and brand owners. Brand owners are generally large, well-known
      consumer products companies and retailers with a national or global presence.
      These types of  

      companies
      tend to purchase their graphics needs directly and supply the printing plates,
      or the electronic files to make the printing plates, to the packaging printer
      for their products. The Graphics Imaging segment serves customers primarily
      in
      the United States and Europe. In Europe, Matthews has subsidiaries principally
      in England, Germany and Austria. Products and services of these operations
      include pre-press packaging, digital and analog flexographic printing plates,
      design, artwork, lithography and color separation. 

Major
      raw
      materials for this segment's products include photopolymers, film and graphic
      art supplies. All such materials are presently available in adequate supply
      from
      various industry sources. 

The
      Graphics Imaging segment is one of several manufacturers of printing plates
      and
      providers of pre-press services with an international presence in the United
      States and Europe. The segment competes in a fragmented industry consisting
      of a
      few multi-plant regional printing plate suppliers and a large number of local
      single-facility companies located across the United States and Europe. The
      combination of the Company's Graphics Imaging business in the United States
      and
      Europe is an important part of Matthews  strategy to become a worldwide leader
      in the graphics industry and service multinational customers on a global basis.
      Competition is on the basis of product quality, timeliness of delivery, price
      and value-added services. The Company differentiates itself from the competition
      by consistently meeting customer demands, its ability to service customers
      nationally and globally, and its ability to provide value-added
      services. 

Marking
      Products: 

The
      Marking Products segment designs, manufactures and distributes a wide range
      of
      marking and coding products and related consumables, as well as industrial
      automation products. The Company s products are used by manufacturers and
      suppliers to identify, track and convey their products and packaging. Marking
      products can range from a simple hand stamp to microprocessor-based ink-jet
      printing systems. Coding systems often integrate into the customer s
      manufacturing, inventory tracking and conveyance control systems. The Company
      manufactures and markets products and systems that employ the following marking
      methods to meet customer needs: contact printing, indenting, etching and ink-jet
      printing. Customers will often use a combination of these methods in

7 

ITEM
      1.     BUSINESS,
      continued 

order
      to
      achieve an appropriate mark. These methods apply product information required
      for identification and traceability as well as to facilitate inventory and
      quality control, regulatory compliance and brand name
      communication. 

Industrial
      automation products that the Company manufactures are based upon embedded
      control architecture to create innovative custom solutions which can be
 productized.  Industries that products are created for include oil exploration,
      material handling and security scanning. The material handling industry
      customers include the largest automated assembly and mail sorting companies
      in
      the United States.  

A
      significant portion of the revenue of the Marking Products segment is
      attributable to the sale of consumables and replacement parts in connection
      with
      the marking, coding and tracking hardware sold by the Company. The Company
      develops inks, rubber and steel consumables in harmony with the marking
      equipment in which they are used, which is critical to assure ongoing equipment
      reliability and mark quality. Many marking equipment customers also use the
      Company's inks, solvents and cleaners. 

The
      principal customers for the Company's marking products are consumer goods
      manufacturers, including food and beverage processors, producers of
      pharmaceuticals, and manufacturers of durable goods and building products.
      The
      Company also serves a wide variety of industrial markets, including metal
      fabricators, manufacturers of woven and non-woven fabrics, plastic, rubber
      and
      automotive products. 

A
      portion
      of the segment's sales are outside the United States and are distributed through
      the Company's subsidiaries in Canada and Sweden in addition to other
      international distributors. Matthews owns a minority interest in distributors
      in
      Asia, Australia, France, Germany, and the Netherlands. 

The
      marking products industry is diverse, with companies either offering limited
      product lines for well-defined specialty markets, or similar to the Company,
      offering a broad product line and competing in various product markets and
      countries. In the United States, the Company has manufactured and sold marking
      products and related consumable items since 1850.  

Major
      raw
      materials for this segment's products include precision components, electronics,
      printing components, tool steels, rubber and chemicals, all of which are
      presently available in adequate supply from various sources. 

Competition
      for marking products is intense and based on product performance, integration
      into the manufacturing process, service and price. The Company normally competes
      with specialty companies in specific brand marking solutions and traceability
      applications. The Company believes that, in general, it offers the broadest
      line
      of marking products to address a wide variety of industrial marking
      applications. 

Merchandising
      Solutions: 

The
      Merchandising Solutions segment, acquired by Matthews in July 2004, provides
      merchandising and printing solutions for manufacturers and retailers. The
      segment designs, manufactures and installs merchandising and display systems,
      and also provides marketing and merchandising consulting services. 

The
      majority of the segment s sales are derived from the design, engineering,
      manufacturing and installation of merchandising and display systems. These
      systems include permanent and temporary displays, custom store fixtures, brand
      concept shops, interactive kiosks, custom packaging, and screen and digitally
      printed promotional signage. Design and engineering services include concept
      and
      model development, graphics design and prototyping. Merchandising and display
      systems are manufactured to specifications developed by the segment in
      conjunction with the customer. These products are marketed and sold primarily
      in
      the United States. 

8 

ITEM
      1.     BUSINESS,
      continued  

The
      segment also provides consulting services in the areas of consumer research
      and
      strategy, retail design, merchandise planning, brand and product communications,
      marketing and product design. These services are provided to a wide variety
      of
      manufacturing, retail and consumer products and services customers, principally
      in the United States. 

The
      segment operates in a fragmented industry consisting primarily of a number
      of
      small, locally operated companies. Industry competition is intense and the
      segment competes on the basis of reliability, creativity and providing a broad
      array of merchandising products and services. The segment is unique in its
      ability to provide in-depth marketing and merchandising consulting services
      as
      well as design, engineering and manufacturing capabilities. These capabilities
      allow the segment to deliver complete turnkey merchandising solutions quickly
      and cost effectively.  

Major
      raw
      materials for the segment s products include wood, particleboard, corrugated
      materials, structural steel, plastic, laminates, inks, film and graphic art
      supplies. All of these raw materials are presently available in adequate supply
      from various sources. 

PATENTS,
      TRADEMARKS AND LICENSES: 

The
      Company holds a number of domestic and foreign patents and trademarks. However,
      the Company believes the loss of any or a significant number of patents or
      trademarks would not have a material impact on consolidated operations
      or revenues. 

BACKLOG: 

Because
      the nature of the Company's Bronze, Graphics Imaging and Merchandising Solutions
      businesses are primarily custom products made to order with short lead times,
      backlogs are not generally material except for mausoleums. Backlogs vary in
      a
      range of approximately one year of sales for mausoleums. The Casket segment
      and
      the cremation casket business normally fill sales orders within one month and,
      therefore, do not have a significant backlog of unfilled orders. Cremation
      equipment sales backlogs vary in a range of eight to ten months of sales.
      Backlogs generally vary in a range of up to four weeks of sales in the Marking
      Products segment. 

REGULATORY
      MATTERS: 

The
      Company's operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws and
      regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and
      regulations impose limitations on the discharge of materials into the
      environment and require the Company to obtain and operate in compliance with
      conditions of permits and other government authorizations. As such, the Company
      has developed environmental, health and safety policies and procedures that
      include the proper handling, storage and disposal of hazardous
      materials. 

The
      Company is party to various environmental matters. These include obligations
      to
      investigate and mitigate the effects on the environment of the disposal of
      certain materials at various operating and non-operating sites. The Company
      is
      currently performing environmental assessments and remediation at these sites,
      as appropriate. In addition, prior to its acquisition, The York Group, Inc.
      was
      identified, along with others, by the Environmental Protection Agency as a
      potentially responsible party for remediation of a landfill site in York,
      Pennsylvania. At this time, the Company has not been joined in any lawsuit
      or
      administrative order related to the site or its clean-up. 

At
      September 30, 2006, an accrual of approximately $10.0 million had been recorded
      for environmental remediation (of which $925,000 was classified in other current
      liabilities), representing management's best estimate of the probable and
      reasonably estimable costs of the Company's known remediation obligations.
      The
      accrual does not consider the effects of inflation and anticipated expenditures
      are not discounted to their present value. While final resolution of these
      contingencies could result in costs different than current accruals, management
      believes the ultimate outcome will not have a significant effect on the
      Company's consolidated results of operations or financial
      position. 

9 

ITEM
      1A.
      RISK FACTORS. 

Risk
      factors specific to the Company relate primarily to the Casket segment and
      include Civil Investigative Demands from the Attorneys General in Maryland,
      Florida and Connecticut and the potential loss of the segment s largest
      independent distributor of caskets. Each of these factors are described more
      fully in Item 3  Legal Proceedings  of this Form 10-K. 

Other
      general risk factors that could affect the Company s future results principally
      include changes in domestic or international economic conditions, changes in
      foreign currency exchange rates, changes in commodity pricing which effect
      the
      cost of materials used in the manufacture of the Company s products, changes in
      death rates, changes in product demand or pricing as a result of consolidation
      in the industries in which the Company operates, changes in product demand
      or
      pricing as a result of domestic or international competitive pressures, unknown
      risks in connection with the Company's acquisitions, and technological factors
      beyond the Company's control. Although the Company does not have any customers
      that would be considered individually significant to consolidated sales, changes
      in the distribution of the Company s products or the potential loss of one or
      more of the Company s larger customers could be considered a risk factor. These
      factors are also included in this Form 10-K under the caption  Cautionary
      Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information.  

ITEM
      1B.
      UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. 

Not
      Applicable. 

10 

ITEM
                2. 

PROPERTIES. 

Principal
      properties of the Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries as of November
      30,
      2006 were as follows (properties are owned by the Company except as
      noted): 

11 

ITEM
                2. 

PROPERTIES,
                continued 

In
      addition, the Casket division leases warehouse facilities totaling approximately
      641,000 square feet in 17 states under operating 

      leases. 

(1)    
             
                These
                properties are leased by the Company under operating lease arrangements.
                Rent expense incurred by the Company for all leased facilities was
                approximately $10,800,000 in fiscal
                2006. 

(2)    
             
                Approximately
                one-fifth of this building is leased to unrelated
                parties. 

All
      of
      the owned properties are unencumbered. The Company believes its facilities
      are
      generally well suited for their respective uses and are of adequate size and
      design to provide the operating efficiencies necessary for the Company to be
      competitive. The Company's facilities provide adequate space for meeting its
      near-term production requirements and have availability for additional capacity.
      The Company intends to continue to expand and modernize its facilities as
      necessary to meet the demand for its products. 

ITEM
                3. 

LEGAL
                PROCEEDINGS. 

In
      August
      2005, The York Group, Inc. ( York ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company,
      was served with Civil Investigative Demands ( CIDs ) from the Attorneys General
      in Maryland and Florida. Thereafter, in October 2005, York was also served
      with
      a CID from the Attorney General in Connecticut. The pending CIDs are part of
      a
      multi-state investigation in which the Attorneys General from Maryland, Florida
      and Connecticut have requested information from various sources, including
      several national owners and operators of funeral homes, as well as several
      manufacturers of caskets, regarding alleged anti-competitive practices in the
      funeral service industry. As one of many potential sources of information,
      York
      has already timely responded to the document production request communicated
      through the CIDs. Presently, the investigation continues to remain in the
      preliminary stages and the scope of the investigation has been limited to
      evaluating the sale of caskets in the funeral service industry. 

In
      October 2005, York filed a complaint and a motion for a special and/or
      preliminary injunction in the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County,
      Pennsylvania (the  Court ) against Yorktowne Caskets, Inc. ( Yorktowne ), the
      shareholders of Yorktowne, Batesville Casket Company, Inc. and Batesville
      Services. This action was taken in response to the announcement that Batesville
      Casket Company, Inc. and/or Batesville Services (collectively  Batesville ) had
      entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the outstanding stock of
      Yorktowne, York s largest independent distributor of wood and metal caskets. The
      causes of action alleged by York involve the distributor agreement between
      York
      and Yorktowne which remains in effect through April 14, 2007.  

The
      Court
      issued a Decision and Order on November 9, 2005 concluding that York had
      demonstrated its entitlement to a preliminary injunction and ordered: (1)
      Yorktowne, its shareholders and Batesville to refrain from further pursuit
      or
      consummation of the proposed sale of Yorktowne to Batesville; (2) Yorktowne
      and
      its shareholders to provide York with the right of first refusal as required
      under the enforceable distributor agreement; (3) Yorktowne and its shareholders
      to refrain from violating the non-assignment provisions of the distributor
      agreement; (4) Yorktowne to use its best efforts to promote York products and
      to
      refrain from selling, marketing or promoting products in competition with York;
      and (5) Yorktowne s shareholders and Batesville from interfering with the
      distributor agreement between York and Yorktowne. 

The
      lawsuit against Yorktowne, its shareholders and Batesville remains pending
      and
      the defendants filed appeals from the Court s injunction ruling to the Superior
      Court of Pennsylvania (the  Superior Court ). The defendants  appeals were
      argued orally before the Superior Court in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in late
      June
      of 2006 and a decision addressing the merits of the defendants  appeal could be
      issued at any time by the Superior Court. Pending a decision by the Superior
      Court, the preliminary injunction issued on November 9, 2005 remains in
      force. 

In
      February 2006, Yorktowne and its shareholders filed a complaint in the Court
      of
      Common Pleas of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania against the Company, York and
      Milso Industries, Inc. ( Milso ) alleging, in part, that the Company, York and
      Milso breached York s distributor agreement with Yorktowne dated April 15, 2005,
      as well as tortuously interfered with Yorktowne s contractual and prospective
      contractual relations. Yorktowne alleges entitlement to various monetary
      damages, including a specific claim for $58 million. 

12 

ITEM
      3.     LEGAL
      PROCEEDINGS, continued 

It
      is
      possible that resolution of the foregoing matter could be unfavorable to the
      Company; however, the Company intends to vigorously defend against the
      allegations set forth in the Complaint and the Company does not presently
      believe that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on
      the
      Company s financial position or results of operations. 

ITEM
                4. 

SUBMISSION
                OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
                HOLDERS. 

No
      matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's security holders during the
      fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006. 

13 

OFFICERS
      AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT OF THE REGISTRANT 

The
      following information is furnished with respect to officers and executive
      management as of November 30, 2006: 

Name 

Age 

Positions
                with Registrant 

David
                M. Kelly 

64 

Chairman
                of the Board 

Joseph
                C. Bartolacci 

46 

President
                and Chief Executive Officer 

David
                F. Beck 

54 

Controller 

Martin
                J. Beck 

63 

President,
                Brand Solutions 

David
                J. DeCarlo 

61 

Vice
                Chairman  

Brian
                J. Dunn 

49 

President,
                Marking Products Division 

David
                H. Hewitt 

56 

President,
                Bronze Division 

Steven
                F. Nicola 

46 

Chief
                Financial Officer, Secretary 

and
                Treasurer 

Harry
                A. Pontone 

76 

President,
                Casket Division 

Paul
                F. Rahill 

49 

President,
                Cremation Division 

Franz
                J. Schwarz 

58 

President,
                Graphics Europe 

Brian
                E. Tottman 

57 

Managing
                Director, Packaging Graphics U.K. and
                U.S. 

David
      M.
      Kelly has been Chairman of the Board since March 1996. He was Chief Executive
      Officer of the Company from September 2005 through September 2006. Prior
      thereto, he had been President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company from
      October 1995 through September 2005.  

Joseph
      C.
      Bartolacci was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer effective October
      1, 2006. He had been President and Chief Operating Officer since September
      1,
      2005. Mr. Bartolacci was elected to the Board of Directors on November 15,
      2005.
      He had been President, Casket Division since February 2004 and Executive Vice
      President of Matthews since January 1, 2004. He had been President, Matthews
      Europe since April 2002, and had also been President, Caggiati, S.p.A. (a
      wholly-owned subsidiary of Matthews International Corporation) since June 1999.
      Prior thereto, he was General Counsel of Matthews.  

David
      F.
      Beck was appointed Controller effective September 15, 2003. He had been Vice
      President, Finance for the Company s Casket segment since December 2001. Prior
      thereto, he held various financial positions as an officer with The York Group,
      Inc. 

14 

OFFICERS
      AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT OF THE REGISTRANT, continued 

Martin
      J.
      Beck was appointed President, Brand Solutions effective August 2005. He joined
      the Company in July 2004 as President and Chief Executive Officer of The
      Cloverleaf Group, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Matthews International
      Corporation). Mr. Beck served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Big
      Red Rooster, Inc., a marketing services company, from its founding in September
      2002 until its acquisition as part of The Cloverleaf Group, Inc., by Matthews
      in
      July 2004. Prior thereto, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer
      of
      Ten Worldwide from January 2001 to May 2002, and of Lighthouse Global Network
      from January 2000 to December 2000, both of which were integrated marketing
      services companies.  

David
      J.
      DeCarlo, a Director of the Company since 1987, was appointed Vice Chairman
      effective September 1, 2005. Mr. DeCarlo had been Group President, Bronze and
      Casket Divisions since February 2004 and prior thereto had been President,
      Bronze Division since November 1993. 

Brian
      J.
      Dunn was appointed President, Marking Products Division in 2002. Prior thereto,
      he was President, Marking Products, North America.  

David
      H.
      Hewitt joined the Company in February 2005 as President, Bronze Division. From
      2000 to 2005, Mr. Hewitt served in various executive positions with General
      Binding Corporation, a designer and manufacturer of branded binding, laminating
      and office equipment.  

Steven
      F.
      Nicola was appointed Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer effective
      December 1, 2003. Prior thereto, he was Vice President, Accounting and Finance
      since December 2001. He had been Controller of the Company since December
      1995. 

Harry
      A.
      Pontone joined the Company in July 2005 as President, Casket Division upon
      Matthews s acquisition of Milso Industries, a casket manufacturer and
      distributor. Mr. Pontone served as President of Milso Industries for more than
      five years prior to its acquisition by Matthews.  

Paul
      F.
      Rahill has been President, Cremation Division since October 2002. He performed
      independent consulting services from April 2000 until October 2002. 

Franz
      J.
      Schwarz was named President, Graphics Europe in May 2006. He has been Managing
      Director of Matthews International GmbH (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Matthews
      International Corporation) since 2000. He was a partial owner of S+T
      Gesellschaft fur Reprotechnik GmbH ( S+T GmbH ), a provider of printing plates
      and print services located in Julich, Germany, until September 30, 2005.
      Matthews International GmbH owns an 80% interest in S+T GmbH as of September
      30,
      2006. 

Brian
      E.
      Tottman was appointed Managing Director, Packaging Graphics U.K. and U.S. in
      June 2006. He joined the Company in August 2004 upon Matthews s acquisition of
      The InTouch Group Limited, a provider of reprographic services to the packaging
      industry in the United Kingdom. Mr. Tottman served as an executive officer
      of
      The InTouch Group Limited for more than five years prior to its acquisition
      by
      Matthews.  

15 

PART
      II 

ITEM
                5. 

MARKET
                FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
                MATTERS. 

(a)
      Market Information: 

The
      authorized common stock of the Company consists of 70,000,000 shares of Class
      A
      Common Stock, $1 par value. The Company's Class A Common Stock is traded on
      the
      NASDAQ National Market System under the symbol  MATW . The following table sets
      forth the high, low and closing prices as reported by NASDAQ for the periods
      indicated: 

The
      Company has a stock repurchase program, which was initiated in 1996. Under
      the
      program, the Company's Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of
      a
      total of 10,000,000 shares of Matthews  common stock, of which 9,135,146 shares
      have been repurchased as of September 30, 2006. The buy-back program is designed
      to increase shareholder value, enlarge the Company's holdings of its common
      stock, and add to earnings per share. Repurchased shares may be retained in
      treasury, utilized for acquisitions, or reissued to employees or other
      purchasers, subject to the restrictions of the Company s Restated Articles of
      Incorporation. 

All
      purchases of the Company s common stock during fiscal 2006 were part of this
      repurchase program.  

16 

ITEM
                5. 

MARKET
                FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS,
                continued 

The
      following table shows the monthly fiscal 2006 stock repurchase
      activity: 

(b)
      Holders: 

Based
      on
      records available to the Company, the number of registered holders of the
      Company's common stock was 496 at November 30, 2006. 

(c)
      Dividends: 

A
      quarterly dividend of $.055 per share was paid for the fourth quarter of fiscal
      2006 to shareholders of record on October 31, 2006. The Company paid quarterly
      dividends of $.05 per share for the first three quarters of fiscal 2006 and
      the
      fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. The Company paid quarterly dividends of $.045
      per
      share for the first three quarters of fiscal 2005. 

Cash
      dividends have been paid on common shares in every year for at least the past
      forty years. It is the present intention of the Company to continue to pay
      quarterly cash dividends on its common stock. However, there is no assurance
      that dividends will be declared and paid as the declaration and payment of
      dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors of the Company and
      is
      dependent upon the Company's financial condition, results of operations, cash
      requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the
      Board. 

17 

ITEM
                6. 

SELECTED
                FINANCIAL DATA. 

Prior
      year amounts contained in this table have been restated for the retrospective
      adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123
      (revised 2004) ( SFAS No. 123 (R) ) ( Share-Based Payment ). See Note 8 of the
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(1)     Fiscal
      2006 included a net pre-tax gain of $1,016 which consisted of a pre-tax gain
      of
      $2,670 from the sale of a facility and a pre-tax charge of approximately $1,654
      related to asset impairments and related costs.  

      (2)     Fiscal
      2003 included a net pre-tax charge of approximately $1,000 which consisted
      of a
      pre-tax gain of $2,600 on the sale of a facility and a goodwill impairment
      charge of $3,600. 

      (3)     In
      fiscal
      2002, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $5,255 for transitional goodwill
      impairment as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other
      Intangible Assets." 

18 

ITEM
                7. 

MANAGEMENT'S
                DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

The
      following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
      financial statements of Matthews International Corporation and related notes
      thereto. In addition, see "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking
      Information" included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

RESULTS
      OF OPERATIONS: 

The
      following table sets forth certain income statement data of the Company
      expressed as a percentage of net sales for the periods indicated and the
      percentage change in such income statement data from year to year. Prior year
      amounts contained in this table and the following discussion have been restated
      for the retrospective adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
      ( SFAS ) No. 123 (revised 2004) ( SFAS No. 123 (R) ) ( Share-Based Payment ).
      See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Comparison
      of Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005: 

Sales
      for
      the year ended September 30, 2006 were $715.9 million and were
      $76.1 million, or 11.9%, higher than sales of $639.8 million for the year
      ended September 30, 2005. The increase resulted principally from the acquisition
      of Milso Industries Corporation ( Milso ) in July 2005, and higher sales in the
      Cremation, Marking Products and Bronze segments. These increases were partially
      offset by the effect of lower sales in the Merchandising Solutions segment
      and
      lower foreign currency values against the U.S. dollar. Bronze segment sales
      for
      fiscal 2006 were $218.0 million, compared to $205.7 million for fiscal 2005.
      The
      higher level of Bronze segment sales principally reflected an increase in
      memorial sales (which included price surcharges related to increases in the
      cost
      of bronze ingot) and higher mausoleum sales. Sales for the Casket segment were
      $201.0 million for fiscal 2006, compared to $135.5 million for fiscal 2005.
      The
      increase reflected the acquisition of Milso. Excluding Milso, fiscal 2006 sales
      volume was lower than fiscal 2005, partially attributable to the transition
      to
      Company-owned distribution in certain territories and a lower death rate for
      the
      year. Sales for the Cremation segment were $26.0 million for the year ended
      September 30, 2006, compared to $21.5 million for fiscal 2005. The increase
      primarily reflected higher sales of cremation equipment and cremation caskets.
      Sales for the Graphics Imaging segment in fiscal 2006 were $140.9 million,
      compared to $143.2 million in fiscal 2005. The decrease primarily reflected
      a
      lower value of the Euro against the U.S. dollar and a decline in volume in
      certain German markets. Marking Products segment sales for the year ended
      September 30, 2006 were $52.3 million, compared to $45.7 million for the year
      ended September 30, 2005. The increase of $6.6 million was principally due
      to
      higher worldwide ink-jet coating business and domestic sales volume,
      particularly in the segment s industrial automation business.     
      Sales
      for the Merchandising Solutions segment were $77.8 million for fiscal 2006,
      compared to $88.3 million for fiscal 2005. The decline is attributable to lower
      sales of merchandising systems and displays. Additionally, fiscal 2005 included
      sales for several promotional programs that did not repeat in fiscal 2006.
      Lower
      foreign currency values against the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact of
      approximately $2.6 million on the Company s consolidated sales compared to the
      prior year. 

19 

ITEM
      7.     MANAGEMENT'S
      DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS, continued 

Gross
      profit for the year ended September 30, 2006 was $271.9 million, compared to
      $223.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2005. The increase in
      consolidated gross profit primarily reflected the Milso acquisition, higher
      sales in the Cremation, Marking Products and Bronze segments and the effects
      of
      manufacturing improvements and cost reduction initiatives. These gains were
      partially offset by lower Casket segment sales excluding Milso and lower sales
      in the Merchandising Solutions segment. Consolidated gross profit as a percent
      of sales increased from 34.9% for fiscal 2005 to 38.0% for fiscal 2006. The
      gross margin percentage improvement principally related to the acquisition
      of
      Milso and the transition to Company-owned casket distribution in certain
      territories formerly served through independent distribution. Sales through
      Company-owned distribution generally result in higher gross margin and selling
      and administrative costs as a percent of sales compared to sales through
      independent distribution. Gross margin percentages also improved in the
      Cremation, Graphics Imaging, Marking Products and Merchandising Solutions
      segments. These increases were partially offset by a decline in Bronze segment
      gross margin, reflecting the significant rise in bronze ingot cost. 

Selling
      and administrative expenses for the year ended September 30, 2006 were $158.0
      million, compared to $124.7 million for fiscal 2005. The increase primarily
      reflected the acquisition of Milso, the expansion of the Casket segment s
      distribution capabilities and a charge of $1.7 million in the Casket segment
      for
      the impairment of redundant assets and related costs. These increases were
      partially offset by a decrease in Bronze segment selling and administrative
      costs due to cost containment efforts intended to mitigate some of the increase
      in bronze metal cost, a reduction in Merchandising Solutions segment costs
      reflecting the effects of the segment s facilities consolidation program and a
      gain of $2.7 million on the sale of a Bronze segment facility. Consolidated
      selling and administrative expenses as a percent of sales were 22.1% for the
      year ended September 30, 2006, compared to 19.5% for fiscal 2005. The increase
      reflected the acquisition of Milso, the expansion of the Casket segment s casket
      distribution capabilities and the impairment charge, partially offset by the
      gain on the sale of a Bronze facility.  

Operating
      profit for fiscal 2006 was $113.9 million, representing an increase of $15.5
      million over operating profit of $98.4 million for the year ended September
      30,
      2005. Bronze segment operating profit for fiscal 2006 was $65.0 million,
      compared to $59.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2005. The increase
      reflected higher sales and cost reduction initiatives. In addition, the
      segment s fiscal 2006 operating profit included a gain of $2.7 million on the
      sale of a facility. Operating profit for the Casket segment for the year ended
      September 30, 2006 was $17.0 million, compared to $12.6 million for fiscal
      2005.
      The increase primarily reflected the Milso acquisition, partially offset
      primarily by lower sales in several territories, and a fourth quarter 2006
      charge of $1.7 million for the impairment of redundant assets and related costs.
      Cremation segment operating profit was $3.4 million for fiscal 2006, compared
      to
      $701,000 for fiscal 2005. The increase primarily reflected higher sales of
      cremation equipment and caskets, improved pricing and cost reduction
      initiatives. Graphics Imaging operating profit for the year ended September
      30,
      2006 was $16.6 million, compared to $14.9 million for the year ended September
      30, 2005. The increase primarily reflected the effects of cost structure
      initiatives implemented in the segment s U.S. and U.K. operations in the fourth
      quarter of fiscal 2005, partially offset by lower foreign currency values
      against the U.S. dollar. Operating profit for the Marking Products segment
      for
      fiscal 2006 was $9.1 million, compared to $7.4 million for fiscal 2005. The
      increase resulted from the benefit of higher sales. Merchandising Solutions
      segment operating profit for the year ended September 30, 2006 was
      $2.9     million,
      compared to $3.1 million for fiscal 2005. The decrease primarily reflected
      lower
      sales volume. However, Merchandising Solutions operating margin as a percent
      of
      sales improved during the second six months of fiscal 2006, reflecting the
      effects of the facilities consolidation program and other cost reduction
      initiatives. 

Investment
      income for the year ended September 30, 2006 was $1.4 million, compared to
      $1.7
      million for fiscal 2005. The decrease from the prior year primarily reflected
      lower levels of invested cash. 

20 

ITEM
                7. 

MANAGEMENT'S
                DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS, continued 

Interest
      expense for the year ended September 30, 2006 was $7.0 million, compared to
      $3.0
      million for the prior year. The increase in interest expense primarily reflected
      higher borrowings under the Company s domestic Revolving Credit Facility (see
 Liquidity and Capital Resources ) and higher interest rates during fiscal 2006.
      Other income (deductions), net, for the year ended September 30, 2006
      represented an increase in pre-tax income of $70,000, compared to an increase
      in
      pre-tax income of $1.7 million for fiscal 2005. Other income in fiscal 2005
      primarily reflected foreign currency exchange gains on intercompany advances
      to
      foreign affiliates. Minority interest deduction for fiscal 2006 was $3.0
      million, compared to $5.8 million for fiscal 2005. The lower minority interest
      deduction for fiscal 2006 resulted principally from the Company s acquisition of
      an additional 30% interest in S+T Gesellschaft fur Reprotechnik GmbH ( S+T ) on
      September 30, 2005. 

The
      Company's effective tax rate for the year ended September 30, 2006 was 37.0%
      compared to 37.6% for fiscal 2005. The decrease in the effective tax rate
      resulted primarily from the favorable tax impact of the sale of a Bronze
      facility. The difference between the Company's effective tax rate and the
      Federal statutory rate of 35% primarily reflected the impact of state and
      foreign income taxes. 

Comparison
      of Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004: 

Sales
      for
      the year ended September 30, 2005 were $639.8 million and were
      $131.0 million, or 25.8%, higher than sales of $508.8 million for the year
      ended September 30, 2004. The increase resulted principally from acquisitions,
      which included Milso during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 and a full twelve
      months of activity for The Cloverleaf Group, Inc. ( Cloverleaf ), The InTouch
      Group, Limited ( InTouch ) and Holjeron Corporation ( Holjeron ), which were
      acquired during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. In addition, higher foreign
      currency values against the U.S. dollar had a favorable impact of approximately
      $5.9 million on the Company s consolidated sales compared to the prior year.
      Bronze segment sales for the year ended September 30, 2005 were $205.7 million,
      compared to $197.4 million for fiscal 2004. The higher level of Bronze segment
      sales principally reflected higher memorial sales (which included price
      surcharges related to increases in the cost of bronze ingot) and the favorable
      impact of increases in the values of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar.
      These increases were offset partially by a decline in mausoleum sales. Sales
      for
  the
      Casket segment were $135.5 million for fiscal 2005, compared to $116.6 million
      for fiscal 2004. The increase primarily reflected the acquisition of Milso
      in
      July 2005. Sales for the Cremation segment were $21.5 million for fiscal 2005,
      compared to $22.5 million for the year ended September 30, 2004. The decrease
      primarily reflected a decline in volume of cremation caskets. Sales for the
      Graphics Imaging segment in fiscal 2005 were $143.2 million, compared to $113.2
      million in fiscal 2004. The increase primarily reflected the acquisition of
      InTouch and an increase in the value of the Euro against the U.S. dollar.
      Marking Products segment sales for fiscal 2005 were $45.7 million, compared
      to
      $38.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2004. The increase of $7.7
      million was principally due to the acquisition of Holjeron, higher sales volume,
      and the increase in value of the Swedish Krona against the U.S. dollar. Sales
      for the Merchandising Solutions segment were $88.3 million for the year ended
      September 30, 2005, compared to $21.1 million for fiscal 2004 (acquired in
      July
      2004).  

Gross
      profit for the year ended September 30, 2005 was $223.1 million, compared to
      $193.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2004. Consolidated gross profit
      as a percent of sales decreased from 38.1% for fiscal 2004 to 34.9% for fiscal
      2005. The increase in consolidated gross profit primarily reflected the Milso
      acquisition completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the full year impact
      of the acquisitions of Cloverleaf, InTouch and Holjeron during the fourth
      quarter of fiscal 2004, the effects of manufacturing improvements and cost
      reduction initiatives in several of the Company s segments, and higher foreign
      exchange values against the U.S. dollar.     These
      gains were partially offset by lower sales in the Cremation segment, higher
      costs for bronze ingot and steel, and costs incurred in connection with the
      establishment of a casket manufacturing facility in Mexico. The gross margin
      percentage decline principally related to the factors discussed above, as well
      as the inclusion of a full year of results for Cloverleaf, which generally
      has
      lower gross margins than other Matthews  businesses. 

21 

ITEM
      7.     MANAGEMENT'S
      DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS, continued 

Selling
      and administrative expenses for fiscal 2005 were $124.7 million, compared to
      $98.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2004. The increase resulted
      primarily from the aforementioned acquisitions. Consolidated selling and
      administrative expenses as a percent of sales were 19.5% for the year ended
      September 30, 2005, compared to 19.4% for fiscal 2004. The increase reflected
      the July 2005 acquisition of Milso. As a distributor of caskets, Milso has
      higher selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales than other
      Matthews  businesses. This increase was partially offset by cost controls in the
      Bronze segment and the July 2004 acquisition of Cloverleaf, which generally
      has
      lower selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales than most
      of
      Matthews  other businesses. 

Operating
      profit for the year ended September 30, 2005 was $98.4 million, representing
      an
      increase of $3.3 million over operating profit of $95.1 million for fiscal
      2004.     Higher
      foreign currency values against the U.S. dollar had a favorable impact of
      approximately $1.5 million on the Company s consolidated operating profit for
      the year ended September 30, 2005 compared to fiscal 2004. Bronze segment
      operating profit for fiscal 2005 was $59.7     million,
      compared to $53.1 million for fiscal 2004. The increase reflected higher sales,
      cost reduction initiatives and the favorable impact of the increase in the
      value
      of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar. In addition, the segment s
      operating profit during the prior year included one-time severance costs related
      to personnel reductions. Operating profit for the Casket segment for the year
      ended September 30, 2005 was $12.6 million, compared to $14.0 million for the
      year ended September 30, 2004. The decrease primarily reflected the higher
      cost
      of steel and costs incurred in connection with the establishment of a casket
      manufacturing facility in Mexico. Fiscal 2005 expenses related to the Mexico
      project approximated $3.7 million. These factors were partially offset by higher
      sales and operating efficiencies realized in connection with productivity
      initiatives. Cremation segment operating profit was $701,000 for fiscal 2005,
      compared to $1.3 million for fiscal 2004. The decrease primarily reflected
      lower
      sales volume and higher raw material costs. The Company estimates that for
      2005,
      the aggregate negative impact on consolidated operating profit of increases
      in
      the cost of steel and bronze, net of the bronze price surcharges, approximated
      $2.9 million compared to fiscal 2004. Graphics Imaging operating profit for
      fiscal 2005 was $14.9 million, compared to $18.8 million for the year ended
      September 30, 2004. The segment's decrease in operating profit reflected lower
      margins in North America and several European graphics businesses and
      investments during fiscal 2005 in developing new domestic accounts.     Operating
      profit for the Marking Products segment for fiscal 2005 was $7.4 million,
      compared to $6.4 million for the year ended September 30, 2004. The increase
      resulted from the acquisition of Holjeron, the benefit of higher sales, and
      the
      increase in value of the Swedish Krona against the U.S. dollar. These gains
      were
      partially offset by an increase in new product development costs. The
      Merchandising Solutions segment, contributed $3.1 million of operating profit
      during fiscal 2005, compared to $1.5 million for fiscal 2004 (acquired in July
      2004).  

Investment
      income for the year ended September 30, 2005 was $1.7 million, compared to
      $1.6
      million for the prior year. The increase from the prior year primarily reflected
      higher rates of return on invested cash. 

Interest
      expense for the year ended September 30, 2005 was $3.0 million, compared to
      $2.0
      million for the prior year. The increase in interest expense primarily reflected
      new borrowings under the Company s domestic Revolving Credit Facility (see
 Liquidity and   Capital
      Resources ). Other income (deductions), net, for the year ended September 30,
      2005 represented an increase in pre-tax income of $1.7 million, compared to
      a
      reduction in pre-tax income of $57,000 for fiscal 2004. Other income in fiscal
      2005 primarily reflected foreign currency exchange gains on intercompany
      advances to foreign affiliates. Minority interest deduction for fiscal 2005
      was
      $5.8 million, compared to $5.5 million for the prior year. The higher minority
      interest deduction for fiscal 2005 resulted principally from an increase in
      operating income in several of the Company's less than wholly-owned European
      Graphics Imaging businesses. 

The
      Company's effective tax rate for the year ended September 30, 2005 was 37.6%
      compared to 38.8% for fiscal 2004. The decrease in the effective tax rate
      resulted primarily from lower state and foreign taxes. The difference between
      the Company's effective tax rate and the Federal statutory rate of 35% primarily
      reflected the impact of state and foreign income taxes. 

22 

ITEM
      7.     MANAGEMENT'S
      DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS, continued 

LIQUIDITY
      AND CAPITAL RESOURCES: 

Net
      cash
      provided by operating activities was $66.1 million for the year ended September
      30, 2006, compared to $70.3 million and $82.3 million for fiscal 2005 and 2004,
      respectively. Operating cash flow for fiscal 2006 primarily reflected net income
      adjusted for depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense
      and
      an increase in minority interest, partially offset by an increase in working
      capital. The year-over-year decline in cash provided by operating activities
      is
      attributable to an increase in working capital primarily resulting from higher
      levels of accounts receivable and inventories with the Casket segment s
      expansion of its distribution capabilities. Operating cash flow for fiscal
      2005
      primarily reflected net income adjusted for depreciation and amortization,
      stock-based compensation expense and an increase in minority
      interest,     partially
      offset by an increase in working capital, primarily accounts receivable and
      inventory. Operating cash flow for fiscal 2004 primarily reflected net income
      adjusted for depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense,
      an
      increase in minority interest and a $1.5 million cash contribution to the
      Company's principal pension plan.  

Cash
      used
      in investing activities was $48.8 million for the year ended September 30,
      2006, compared to $139.0 million and $82.8 million for fiscal years 2005 and
      2004, respectively. Investing activities for fiscal 2006 primarily reflected
      payments (net of cash acquired) of $32.3 million for acquisitions, capital
      expenditures of $19.4 million, and proceeds of $3.1 million from the sale of
      assets. Investing activities for fiscal 2005 primarily reflected payments (net
      of cash acquired) of $109.4 million for acquisitions, capital expenditures
      of
      $28.1 million, net purchases of investments of $2.6 million and proceeds of
      $1.1
      million from the sale of assets. Investing activities for fiscal 2004 primarily
      included payments (net of cash acquired) of $74.5 million and capital
      expenditures of $10.4 million. See  Acquisitions  for further discussion of the
      Company s acquisitions. 

Capital
      expenditures were $19.4 million for the year ended September 30, 2006, compared
      to $28.1 million and $10.4 million for fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively.
      The
      increase in capital spending in fiscal 2005 reflected the capital expenditures
      made in connection with establishment of the casket manufacturing facility
      in
      Mexico and the acquisition of production facilities for the Merchandising
      Solutions segment and a European graphics business. Capital expenditures in
      each
      of the last three fiscal years reflected reinvestment in the Company's business
      segments and were made primarily for the purchase of new manufacturing
      machinery, equipment and facilities designed to improve product quality,
      increase manufacturing efficiency, lower production costs and meet regulatory
      requirements. Capital expenditures for the last three fiscal years were
      primarily financed through operating cash. Capital spending for property, plant
      and equipment has averaged $19.3 million for the last three fiscal years. The
      capital budget for fiscal 2007 is $27.1 million. The Company expects to generate
      sufficient cash from operations to fund all anticipated capital spending
      projects. 

Cash
      used
      in financing activities for the year ended September 30, 2006 was $28.8 million,
      reflecting net repayments of long-term debt of $2.1 million, treasury stock
      purchases of $17.5 million, proceeds of $2.0 million from the sale of treasury
      stock (stock option exercises), a tax benefit of $902,000 from exercised stock
      options, dividends of $6.6 million     ($0.205
      per share) to the Company s shareholders and distributions of $5.5 million to
      minority interests. Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended
      September 30, 2005 was $45.4 million, reflecting proceeds, net of repayments,
      from long-term debt of $75.7     million,
      treasury stock purchases of $27.9 million, proceeds of $5.9 million from the
      sale of treasury stock (stock option exercises), a tax benefit of $3.1 million
      from exercised stock options, dividends of $5.9 million     ($0.185
      per share) to the Company s shareholders and distributions of $5.5 million to
      minority interests. Cash used in financing activities for the year ended
      September 30, 2004 was $2.2 million,     reflecting
      proceeds, net of repayments, from long-term debt of $6.4 million, treasury
      stock
      purchases of $14.9 million, proceeds of $10.6 million from the sale of treasury
      stock (stock option exercises), a tax benefit of $4.5 million from exercised
      stock options, dividends of $5.3 million     ($0.165
      per share) to the Company s shareholders and dividends of $3.5 million to
      minority interests.  

23 

ITEM
      7.     MANAGEMENT'S
      DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS, continued  

The
      Company has a domestic Revolving Credit Facility with a syndicate of financial
      institutions. In February 2005, the facility, which was originally in the amount
      of $125.0 million, was amended to increase the borrowing capacity to $150.0
      million. Borrowings under the amended facility, which is scheduled to mature
      on
      April 30, 2009, bear interest at LIBOR plus a factor ranging from .50% to 1.00%
      based on the Company s leverage ratio. The leverage ratio is defined as net
      indebtedness divided by EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
      and amortization). The Company is required to pay an annual commitment fee
      ranging from .20% to .30% (based on the Company s leverage ratio) of the unused
      portion of the facility. The Revolving Credit Facility, as amended, requires
      the
      Company to maintain certain leverage and interest coverage ratios. A portion
      of
      the facility (not to exceed $10.0 million) is available for the issuance of
      trade and standby letters of credit. Outstanding borrowings on the Revolving
      Credit Facility at September 30, 2006 were $123.2 million. The weighted-average
      interest rate on outstanding borrowings at September 30, 2006 and 2005 was
      4.88%
      and 3.80%, respectively. 

In
      April
      2004, the Company entered into an interest rate swap that fixed, for a five
      year
      period, the interest rate on borrowings in an initial amount of $50.0 million.
      The interest rate was fixed at 2.66% plus a factor based on the Company s
      leverage ratio (the factor was .50% at September 30, 2006). The interest rate
      swap was designated as a cash flow hedge of the future variable interest
      payments under the Revolving Credit Facility which are considered probable
      of
      occurring. Based on the Company s assessment, all of the critical terms of the
      hedge matched the underlying terms of the hedged debt and related forecasted
      interest payments and as such, these hedges were considered highly effective.
      Equal quarterly payments of $2.5 million plus interest are due on this $50.0
      million borrowing until its maturity in April 2009.  

In
      July
      2005, the Company increased its outstanding borrowings under the facility.
      The
      additional borrowings were used to complete the acquisition of Milso. Effective
      September 30, 2005, the Company entered into an additional interest rate swap
      that fixed, for the period through the maturity of the Revolving Credit
      Facility, the interest rate on additional borrowings in an initial amount of
      $50.0 million. The interest rate was fixed at 4.14% plus a factor based on
      the
      Company s leverage ratio (the factor was .50% at September 30, 2006). The
      interest rate swap was designated as a cash flow hedge of the future variable
      interest payments under the Revolving Credit Facility which are considered
      probable of occurring. Based on the Company s assessment, all of the critical
      terms of the hedge match the underlying terms of the hedged debt and related
      forecasted interest payments and as such, these hedges were considered highly
      effective. Equal quarterly payments of $3.3 million plus interest are due on
      this $50.0 million borrowing until its maturity in April 2009. 

The
      fair
      value of the interest rate swaps reflected an unrealized gain of $1.5 million
      ($918,000 after tax) at September 30, 2006 that is included in equity as part
      of
      accumulated other comprehensive income. Assuming market rates remain constant
      with the rates at September 30, 2006, approximately $356,000 of the $918,000
      gain included in accumulated other comprehensive income is expected to be
      recognized in earnings as an adjustment to interest expense over the next twelve
      months. 

The
      Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Matthews International GmbH
      ( MIGmbH ), has a credit facility with National Westminster Bank Plc for
      borrowings up to 10.0 million Euros. At September 30, 2006, outstanding
      borrowings under the credit facility totaled 8.5 million Euros ($10.8 million).
      The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding MIGmbH related borrowings
      at
      September 30, 2006 and 2005 was 3.69% and 2.66%, respectively. 

The
      Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Caggiati S.p.A., has several
      loans
      with various Italian banks. Outstanding borrowings on these loans totaled 8.0
      million Euros ($10.2 million) at September 30, 2006. Caggiati S.p.A. also has
      three lines of credit totaling approximately 8.4 million Euros ($10.6 million)
      with the same Italian banks. Outstanding borrowings on these lines were 2.4
      million Euros ($3.0 million) at September 30, 2006. The weighted-average
      interest rate on outstanding Caggiati S.p.A. related borrowings at September
      30,
      2006 and 2005 was 3.17% and 2.81%, respectively. 

24 

ITEM
      7.     MANAGEMENT'S
      DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS, continued 

The
      Company has a stock repurchase program, which was initiated in 1996. As of
      September 30, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors had authorized the
      repurchase of a total of 10,000,000 shares of Matthews  common stock under the
      program, of which 9,135,146 shares had been repurchased as of September 30,
      2006. The buy-back program is designed to increase shareholder value, enlarge
      the Company's holdings of its common stock, and add to earnings per share.
      Repurchased shares may be retained in treasury, utilized for acquisitions,
      or
      reissued to employees or other purchasers, subject to the restrictions of the
      Company s Restated Articles of Incorporation. 

Consolidated
      working capital of the Company was $105.6     million
      at September 30, 2006, compared to $86.6 million and $90.9 million at
      September 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Working capital at
      September 30, 2006 reflected higher levels of accounts receivable and
      inventories resulting primarily from the Casket segment s expansion of its
      distribution capabilities. Working capital at September 30, 2005 reflected
      higher levels of accounts receivable and inventories, primarily due to the
      Milso
      acquisition, an increase in current maturities of debt, and higher levels of
      current liabilities, also primarily the result of the Milso acquisition. Cash
      and cash equivalents were $29.7 million at September 30, 2006, compared to
      $39.6 million and $65.8 million at September 30, 2005 and 2004,
      respectively. The Company's current ratio at September 30, 2006 was 1.8,
      compared to 1.6 and 1.8 at September 30, 2005 and 2004,
      respectively. 

ENVIRONMENTAL
      MATTERS: 

The
      Company's operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws and
      regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and
      regulations impose limitations on the discharge of materials into the
      environment and require the Company to obtain and operate in compliance with
      conditions of permits and other government authorizations. As such, the Company
      has developed environmental, health, and safety policies and procedures that
      include the proper handling, storage and disposal of hazardous
      materials. 

The
      Company is party to various environmental matters. These include obligations
      to
      investigate and mitigate the effects on the environment of the disposal of
      certain materials at various operating and non-operating sites. The Company
      is
      currently performing environmental assessments and remediation at these sites,
      as appropriate. In addition, prior to its acquisition, The York Group, Inc.
      ( York ) was identified, along with others, by the Environmental Protection
      Agency as a potentially responsible party for remediation of a landfill site
      in
      York, Pennsylvania. At this time, the Company has not been joined in any lawsuit
      or administrative order related to the site or its clean-up. 

At
      September 30, 2006, an accrual of approximately $10.0 million had been recorded
      for environmental remediation (of which $925,000 was classified in other current
      liabilities), representing management's best estimate of the probable and
      reasonably estimable costs of the Company's known remediation obligations.
      The
      accrual, which reflects previously established reserves assumed with the
      acquisition of York and additional reserves recorded as a purchase accounting
      adjustment, does not consider the effects of inflation and anticipated
      expenditures are not discounted to their present value. Changes in the accrued
      environmental remediation obligation from the prior fiscal year reflects
      payments charged against the accrual. While final resolution of these
      contingencies could result in costs different than current accruals, management
      believes the ultimate outcome will not have a significant effect on the
      Company's consolidated results of operations or financial position. 

25 

ITEM
      7.     MANAGEMENT'S
      DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS, continued 

ACQUISITIONS: 

Fiscal
      2006: 

Acquisition
      spending, net of cash acquired, during the year ended September 30, 2006 totaled
      $32.3 million, and primarily included the following: 

On
      March
      1, 2006, the Company acquired Royal Casket Company, a distributor of primarily
      York brand caskets in the Southwest region of the United States. The transaction
      was structured as an asset purchase with potential additional consideration
      payable contingent upon the operating performance of the acquired operations
      during the next five years. The Company expects to account for this
      consideration as additional purchase price. The acquisition was intended to
      expand Matthews  casket distribution capabilities in the Southwestern United
      States.  

On
      February 23, 2006, the Company acquired The Doyle Group, a provider of
      reprographic services to the packaging industry, located in Oakland, California.
      The transaction was structured as an asset purchase, with potential additional
      consideration payable contingent upon the operating performance of the acquired
      operations during the next three years. The Company expects to account for
      this
      consideration as additional purchase price. The acquisition was intended to
      expand the Company s graphics business in the Western United States.

On
      September 30, 2005, the Company acquired an additional 30% interest in S+T
      which
      was paid in October 2005. The Company had acquired a 50% interest in S+T in
      1998.  

Fiscal
      2005: 

In
      July
      2005, the Company acquired Milso, a leading manufacturer and marketer of caskets
      in the United States. Milso, headquartered in Brooklyn, New York, has
      manufacturing operations in Richmond, Indiana and maintains distribution centers
      throughout the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest and Southwest regions of the
      United States. The transaction was structured as an asset purchase, at an
      initial purchase price of approximately $95.0 million. In connection with the
      contingent consideration provisions of the acquisition agreement, the Company
      has agreed to pay additional purchase consideration of $7.0 million. The
      additional consideration, which will be paid in fiscal 2007, was recorded as
      additional purchase price as of September 30, 2006. The acquisition was intended
      to expand Matthews  products and services in the United States casket
      market. 

In
      June
      2005, the Company paid additional consideration of $6.0 million to the minority
      owner of Rudolf Reproflex GmbH under the terms of the original acquisition
      agreement. The Company had acquired a 75% interest in Rudolf in
      2001. 

Fiscal
      2004: 

In
      August
      2004, the Company acquired InTouch, a leading provider of reprographic services
      to the packaging industry in the United Kingdom. InTouch is headquartered in
      Leeds, England and has operations in London, Portsmouth, Manchester and Boston,
      Massachusetts. The transaction was structured as a stock purchase, at a cost
      of
      approximately $39.0 million. The acquisition was intended to further the
      Company s position as a provider of reprographic services to the European
      packaging industry. 

In
      July
      2004, the Company acquired Cloverleaf, a provider of merchandising solutions.
      Cloverleaf was formed by the merger of iDL, Inc., a provider of merchandising
      systems and displays, headquartered near Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and Big
      Red
      Rooster, a marketing and design services organization located in Columbus,
      Ohio.
      The transaction was structured as an asset purchase, at a cost of approximately
      $34.0 million. The transaction was structured to include potential additional
      consideration during the next six years  

26 

ITEM
      7.     MANAGEMENT'S
      DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS, continued 

contingent
      on the future growth in value of the acquired operations. The Company expects
      to
      account for this additional consideration as additional purchase price. The
      acquisition was designed to expand the Company s products and services into the
      merchandising solutions market. 

In
      July
      2004, the Company acquired Holjeron, an industrial controls manufacturer located
      near Portland, Oregon. The acquisition was structured as a stock purchase.
      In
      February 2005, additional consideration was paid in accordance with the purchase
      agreement. The acquisition was a part of Matthews  strategy to increase its
      presence in the marking products industry.  

Matthews
      has accounted for these acquisitions using the purchase method and, accordingly,
      recorded the acquired assets and liabilities at their estimated fair values
      at
      the acquisition dates. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated
      fair
      value of the net assets acquired was recorded as goodwill.  

FORWARD-LOOKING
      INFORMATION: 

The
      Company s objective with respect to operating performance is to increase annual
      earnings per share in the range of 12% to 15% over the long term. For the past
      ten fiscal years, the Company has achieved an average annual increase in
      earnings per share of 16.3%. 

Matthews
      has a three-pronged strategy to attain the annual growth rate objective, which
      has remained unchanged from the prior year. This strategy consists of the
      following: internal growth (which includes productivity improvements, new
      product development and the expansion into new markets with existing products),
      acquisitions and share repurchases under the Company s stock repurchase program
      (see "Liquidity and Capital Resources"). 

The
      significant factors impacting the Company s fiscal 2006 results were the fiscal
      2005 acquisition of Milso, a significant rise in bronze metal costs, continued
      work on the start-up of the Mexican casket plant, the transition to
      Company-owned casket distribution in certain territories and the facilities
      consolidation efforts in the Merchandising Solutions segment. The Company
      expects to continue to face several of these same issues in fiscal 2007. Bronze
      metal costs may remain high. The casket business will continue the transition
      to
      Company-owned distribution in certain territories in 2007, and as the production
      rate of the Mexican facility continues to increase, the Company will be further
      evaluating its casket manufacturing capacity needs. Lastly, although the
      facilities consolidation in the Merchandising Solutions business is
      substantially complete, as the segment is in the early stages of the
      improvements generated from this consolidation, the operation is still expected
      to have some challenges. 

Based
      on
      the Company s growth strategy and factors discussed above, the Company currently
      expects to achieve fiscal 2007 diluted earnings per share growth in the range
      of
      its long-term growth objective of 12% to 15% over fiscal 2006 earnings per
      share. This earnings expectation excludes the net favorable impact of the gain
      of the sale of property and the impairment of assets and related costs on the
      fiscal 2006 fourth quarter. In addition, this expectation does not include
      the
      impact of any unusual items in fiscal 2007, such as any payouts that may be
      earned in fiscal 2007 under the Milso acquisition-related
      agreements. 

CRITICAL
      ACCOUNTING POLICIES: 

The
      preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
      accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions
      that
      affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
      contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
      the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
      Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment
      based on various assumptions and other factors such as historical experience,
      economic conditions, and in some cases, actuarial techniques. Actual results
      may
      differ from those estimates. A discussion of market risks affecting the Company
      can be found in Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
      Risk," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

27 

ITEM
      7.     MANAGEMENT'S
      DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS, continued 

The
      Company's significant accounting policies are included in the Notes to
      Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
      Management believes that the application of these policies on a consistent
      basis
      enables the Company to provide useful and reliable financial information about
      the Company's operating results and financial condition. The following
      accounting policies involve significant estimates, which were considered
      critical to the preparation of the Company's consolidated financial statements
      for the year ended September 30, 2006. 

Allowance
      for Doubtful Accounts: 

The
      allowance for doubtful accounts is based on an evaluation of specific customer
      accounts for which available facts and circumstances indicate collectibility
      may
      be a problem. In addition, the allowance includes a reserve for all customers
      based on historical collection experience. 

Long-Lived
      Assets: 

Property,
      plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets are carried at cost.
      Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is computed primarily on the
      straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Property,
      plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes
      in
      circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be
      recoverable. Recoverability of assets is determined by comparing the estimated
      undiscounted net cash flows of the operations to which the assets relate. An
      impairment loss would be recognized when the carrying amount of the assets
      exceeds the estimated undiscounted net cash flows. 

Goodwill
      is not amortized, but is subject to periodic review for impairment. In general,
      when the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its implied fair value,
      an
      impairment loss must be recognized. For purposes of testing for impairment,
      the
      Company uses a combination of valuation techniques, including discounted cash
      flows. Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, unless
      such lives are considered to be indefinite. A significant decline in cash flows
      generated from these assets may result in a write-down of the carrying values
      of
      the related assets. The Company performed its annual impairment reviews in
      the
      second quarters of fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 and determined that no
      adjustments to the carrying values of goodwill or other intangibles were
      necessary at those times. 

Share-Based
      Payment: 

Prior
      to
      October 1, 2005, the Company accounted for its stock-based compensation plan
      in
      accordance with the intrinsic value provisions of Accounting Principles Board
      Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  and provided the
      required pro-forma disclosures of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
      Compensation . Effective October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R)
      using the modified retrospective method. Accordingly, stock-based compensation
      cost is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and is
      recognized as expense over the employee requisite service period. In accordance
      with SFAS No. 123(R), financial statements for all periods prior to October
      1,
      2005 have been adjusted to give effect to the fair-value method of accounting
      for all awards granted in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1994.
      Amounts previously disclosed as pro-forma adjustments have been reflected in
      earnings for all prior periods. 

Pension
      and Postretirement Benefits: 

Pension
      assets and liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and are affected
      by
      the market value of plan assets, estimates of the expected return on plan assets
      and the discount rate used to determine the present value of benefit
      obligations. Actual changes in the fair market value of plan assets and
      differences between the actual return on plan assets, the expected return on
      plan assets and changes in the selected discount rate will affect the amount
      of
      pension cost. 

28 

ITEM
                7. 

MANAGEMENT'S
                DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS, continued 

The
      Company's principal pension plan maintains a substantial portion of its assets
      in equity securities in accordance with the investment policy established by
      the
      Company s pension board. Based on an analysis of the historical performance of
      the plan's assets and consultation with its independent investment advisor,
      the
      Company has maintained the long-term rate of return assumption for these assets
      at 9.0% for purposes of determining pension cost and funded status under SFAS
      No. 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions." The Company s discount rate
      assumption used in determining the present value of the projected benefit
      obligation is based  

      upon
      published indices for long-term (10-year) high quality bonds as of its plan
      year-end date (July 31). The discount rate was 6.5%, 5.75% and 6.5% in fiscal
      2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, reflecting long-term bond rates in each
      of
      those periods. 

Environmental
      Reserve: 

Environmental
      liabilities are recorded when the Company's obligation is probable and
      reasonably estimable. Accruals for losses from environmental remediation
      obligations do not consider the effects of inflation, and anticipated
      expenditures are not discounted to their present value. 

Revenue
      Recognition: 

Revenues
      are generally recognized when title and risk of loss pass to the customer,
      which
      is typically at the time of product shipment. For pre-need sales of memorials
      and vases, revenue is recognized when the memorial has been manufactured to
      the
      customer s specifications (e.g., name and birth date), title has been
      transferred to the customer and the memorial and vase are placed in storage
      for
      future delivery. A liability has been recorded in Estimated Finishing Costs
      for
      the estimated costs of finishing pre-need bronze memorials and vases that have
      been manufactured and placed in storage prior to July 1, 2003 for future
      delivery. 

In
      July
      2003, the Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) issued Issue No. 00-21  Revenue
      Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.  Issue No. 00-21 addresses certain
      aspects of the accounting by a vendor for arrangements under which it will
      perform multiple revenue generating activities. The provisions of Issue No.
      00-21 were effective July 1, 2003 and have been applied prospectively by the
      Company to the finishing and storage elements of its pre-need sales. Beginning
      July 1, 2003, revenue is deferred by the Company on the portion of pre-need
      sales attributable to the final finishing and storage of the pre-need
      merchandise. Deferred revenue for final finishing is recognized at the time
      the
      pre-need merchandise is finished and shipped to the customer. Deferred revenue
      related to storage is recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated
      average time that pre-need merchandise is held in storage.  

At
      September 30, 2006, the Company held 354,182 memorials and 248,104 vases in
      its
      storage facilities under the pre-need sales program. 

Construction
      revenues are recognized under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting
      using the cost-to-cost method. The Company offers rebates to certain customers
      participating in volume purchase programs. Rebates are estimated and recorded
      as
      a reduction in sales at the time the Company s products are
      sold. 

29 

ITEM
      7.     MANAGEMENT'S
      DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS, continued 

LONG-TERM
      CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS: 

The
      following table summarizes the Company s contractual obligations at September
      30, 2006, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity
      and cash flows in future periods. 

A
      significant portion of the loans included in the table above bear interest
      at
      variable rates. At September 30, 2006, the weighted-average interest rate was
      4.88% on the Company s domestic Revolving Credit Facility, 3.69% on the credit
      facility through the Company s wholly-owned German subsidiary, and 3.17% on bank
      loans to the Company s wholly-owned subsidiary, Caggiati S.p.A. 

Benefit
      payments under the Company s principal retirement plan are made from plan
      assets, while benefit payments under the supplemental retirement plan and
      postretirement benefit plan are funded from the Company s operating cash. The
      Company does not currently plan to make any significant contributions to its
      principal retirement plan in fiscal 2007.     The
      Company estimates that benefit payments to participants under its retirement
      plans (including its supplemental retirement plan) and postretirement benefit
      payments will be $4.6 million and $1.0 million, respectively, in fiscal 2007.
      The amounts are not expected to change materially thereafter. The Company
      believes that its current liquidity sources, combined with its operating cash
      flow and borrowing capacity, will be sufficient to meet its capital needs for
      the foreseeable future. 

INFLATION: 

Except
      for the significant increases in the cost of bronze ingot and steel (see
 Results of Operations ), inflation has not had a material impact on the Company
      over the past three years nor is it anticipated to have a material impact for
      the foreseeable future. 

ACCOUNTING
      PRONOUNCEMENTS: 

In
      November 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued
      FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1, "The Meaning of
      Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments"
      ("FSP 115-1"), which provides guidance on determining when investments in
      certain debt and equity securities are considered impaired, whether that
      impairment is other-than-temporary, and on measuring such impairment loss.
      FSP 115-1 also includes accounting considerations subsequent to the
      recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment and requires certain
      disclosures about unrealized losses that have not been recognized as
      other-than-temporary impairments. FSP 115-1 was adopted by the Company in
      the second quarter of fiscal 2006 as required and had no material impact on
      the
      Company s consolidated financial position and results of operations.

30 

ITEM
      7.     MANAGEMENT'S
      DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS, continued 

In
      June
      2006, FASB issued Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
      Taxes  (FIN 48) which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes
      recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS No.
      109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  This interpretation prescribes a recognition
      threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition
      and
      measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax
      return.  FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification,
      interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and
      transition. Any resulting cumulative effect of applying the provisions of FIN
      48
      upon adoption will be reported as an adjustment to beginning retained earnings
      in the period of adoption. The Interpretation is effective for fiscal years
      beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company is currently evaluating the
      impact of the adoption of FIN 48. 

In
      September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined
      Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  which amends SFAS 87, 88, 106
      and 132(R).  SFAS No. 158 requires employers to recognize the over-funded
      or under-funded   status
      of
      defined benefit postretirement plans on the balance sheet and to recognize
      the
      corresponding adjustment in other comprehensive income. In addition, the
      statement requires recognition in other comprehensive income of gains or losses
      and prior service costs or credits that are not included as components of
      periodic benefit expense. These provisions of the statement are effective for
      public companies for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006. 
Accordingly, the Company will adopt this provision of SFAS No. 158 prospectively
      for the year-end financial statements dated September 30, 2007.  If the
      Company had adopted SFAS No. 158 as of September 30, 2006, the liability for
      pension and postretirement benefits would have increased approximately $10.0
      million, deferred tax assets would have increased approximately $3.9 million
      and
      equity (other accumulated comprehensive income) would have decreased by
      approximately $6.1 million. 

Further,
      SFAS No. 158 requires the Company to measure the plan assets and benefit
      obligations of defined benefit postretirement plans as of the date of its
      year-end balance sheet. This provision of the SFAS No. 158 is effective for
      public companies for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008.  The
      Company currently measures plan assets and benefit obligations as of July 31
      of
      each year. The Company is considering the implications of this provision and
      the
      feasibility of earlier adoption of this portion of the statement.  Upon
      adoption, this provision is not expected to have a material effect on the
      financial statements. 

In
      September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements.  This
      Statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value
      in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about
      fair
      value measurements. The Statement applies under other accounting pronouncements
      that require or permit fair value measurements and does not require any new
      fair
      value measurements. The Statement is effective for financial statements issued
      for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The adoption of SFAS No.
      157
      is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated
      financial position or results of operations. 

31 

ITEM
      7A.     QUANTITATIVE
      AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. 

The
      following discussion about the Company's market risk involves forward-looking
      statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in
      the
      forward-looking statements. The Company has market risk related to changes
      in
      interest rates, commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The
      Company does not generally use derivative financial instruments in connection
      with these market risks, except as noted below. 

Interest
      Rates - The Company s most significant long-term debt instrument is the domestic
      Revolving Credit Facility, as amended, which bears interest at variable rates
      based on LIBOR. In April 2004, the Company entered into an interest rate swap
      that fixed, for a five-year period, the interest rate on borrowings in an
      initial amount of $50.0 million ($27.5 million outstanding at September 30,
      2006). The interest rate was fixed at 2.66% plus a factor based on the Company s
      leverage ratio (the factor was .50% at September 30, 2006). The interest rate
      swap was designated as a cash flow hedge of the future variable interest
      payments under the Revolving Credit Facility which are considered probable
      of
      occurring. On July 11, 2005 the Company increased its outstanding borrowings
      under the facility and, effective September 30, 2005, the Company entered into
      an additional interest rate swap that fixed, for the period through the maturity
      of the Revolving Credit Facility, the interest rate on the additional borrowings
      in an initial amount of $50.0 million ($36.7 million outstanding at September
      30, 2006). The interest rate was fixed at 4.14% plus a factor based on the
      Company s leverage ratio (the factor was .50% at September 30, 2006). The
      interest rate swap was designated as a cash flow hedge of the future variable
      interest payments under the Revolving Credit Facility which are considered
      probable of occurring. The fair value of the interest rate swaps reflected
      an
      unrealized gain of $1.5 million ($918,000 after tax) at September 30, 2006
      that
      is included in equity as part of accumulated other comprehensive income. A
      decrease of 10% in market interest rates (i.e. a decrease from 3.5% to 3.15%)
      would result in a decrease of approximately $254,000 in the fair value of the
      interest rate swaps.  

Commodity
      Price Risks - In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to
      commodity price fluctuations related to the purchases of certain materials
      and
      supplies (such as bronze ingot, steel and wood) used in its manufacturing
      operations. The Company obtains competitive prices for materials and supplies
      when available.  

Foreign
      Currency Exchange Rates - The Company is subject to changes in various foreign
      currency exchange rates, including the Euro, the British Pound, Canadian dollar,
      Australian dollar and Swedish Krona, in the conversion from local currencies
      to
      the U.S. dollar of the reported financial position and operating results of
      its
      non-U.S. based subsidiaries. An adverse change of 10% in exchange rates would
      have resulted in a decrease in sales of $16.5 million and a decrease in
      operating income of $2.9 million for the year ended September 30,
      2006. 

32 

ITEM
      8.
      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA. 

Description 

Pages 

Management s
                Report to Shareholders 

34 

Report
                of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

35-36 

Financial
                Statements: 

Consolidated
                Balance Sheets 

37-38 

Consolidated
                Statements of Income 

39 

Consolidated
                Statements of Shareholders' Equity 

40 

Consolidated
                Statements of Cash Flows 

41 

Notes
                to Consolidated Financial Statements 

42-65 

Supplementary
                Financial Information (unaudited) 

66 

Financial
                Statement Schedule - Schedule II-Valuation and Qualifying 

Accounts
                for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 

67 

33 

MANAGEMENT S
      REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS  

To
      the
      Shareholders and Board of Directors of 

      Matthews
      International Corporation: 

Management s
      Report on Financial Statements  

The
      accompanying consolidated financial statements of Matthews International
      Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, the  Company ) were prepared by
      management, which is responsible for their integrity and objectivity. The
      statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles and include amounts that are based on management s best judgments and
      estimates. The other financial information included in this Annual Report on
      Form 10-K is consistent with that in the financial statements.  

Management s
      Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

Management
      is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
      financial reporting for the Company. In order to evaluate the effectiveness
      of
      internal control over financial reporting management has conducted an assessment
      using the criteria in    Internal
      Control - Integrated Framework   ,
      issued
      by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
      The Company s internal controls over financial reporting include those policies
      and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
      reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
      dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable
      assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation
      of
      financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made
      only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
      Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
      timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
      Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
      may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation
      of
      effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
      inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
      with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

Based
      on
      its assessment, management has concluded that the Company maintained effective
      internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on
      criteria in    Internal
      Control - Integrated Framework   
      issued
      by the COSO. Management s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s
      internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, has been
      audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
      accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein.

Management s
      Certifications  

The
      certifications of the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
      Officer required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have been included as Exhibits 31
      and
      32 in the Company s Form 10-K.  

34 

Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To
      the
      Shareholders and Board of Directors of Matthews International
      Corporation: 

We
      have
      completed integrated audits of Matthews International Corporation s 2006 and
      2005 consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over
      financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, and an audit of its 2004
      consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public
      Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on
      our
      audits, are presented below. 

Consolidated
      financial statements and financial statement schedule  

In
      our
      opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying
      index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
      Matthews International Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company) at
      September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their
      cash
      flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2006 in
      conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
      of
      America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed
      in
      the accompanying index       presents
      fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read
      in
      conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial
      statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
      Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
      financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
      We
      conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of
      the
      Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
      require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
      whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
      of
      financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
      the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
      accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
      evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
      audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

As
      discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, effective October
      1, 2005, the Company changed its method of accounting for share-based
      payments. 

Internal
      control over financial reporting  

Also,
      in
      our opinion, management s assessment, included in Management's Report on
      Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 8, that the
      Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of
      September 30, 2006 based on criteria established in    Internal
      Control - Integrated Framework   
      issued
      by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO),
      is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria.
      Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
      effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006,
      based on criteria established in    Internal
      Control - Integrated Framework   
      issued
      by the COSO. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective
      internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
      effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility
      is to express opinions on management s assessment and on the effectiveness
      of the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
      We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in
      accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
      (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
      to
      obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
      financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of
      internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding
      of
      internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment,
      testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
      control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the
      circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
      opinions.  

35 

A
      company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
      and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
      with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
      financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain
      to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
      reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
      (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
      necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
      generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures
      of
      the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
      and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance
      regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use,
      or
      disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
      financial statements.  

Because
      of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may
      not
      prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
      effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
      inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
      with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

/s/PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP 

Pittsburgh,
      Pennsylvania 

      December
      6, 2006 

36 

MATTHEWS
      INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

      CONSOLIDATED
      BALANCE SHEETS 

      September
      30, 2006 and 2005 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
      statements. 

37 

MATTHEWS
      INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

      CONSOLIDATED
      BALANCE SHEETS, continued 

      September
      30, 2006 and 2005 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
      statements. 

38 

MATTHEWS
      INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

      CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF INCOME 

      for
      the
      years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
      statements. 

39 

MATTHEWS
      INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

      CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 

      for
      the
      years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
      statements. 

40 

MATTHEWS
      INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

      CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

      for
      the
      years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
      statements. 

41 

MATTHEWS
      INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

      NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

1. 

NATURE
                OF OPERATIONS: 

Matthews
      International Corporation ("Matthews"), founded in 1850 and incorporated in
      Pennsylvania in 1902, is a designer, manufacturer and marketer principally
      of
      memorialization products and brand solutions. Memorialization products consist
      primarily of bronze memorials and other memorialization products, caskets and
      cremation equipment for the cemetery and funeral home industries. Brand
      solutions include graphics imaging products and services, marking products
      and
      merchandising solutions. The Company's products and operations are comprised
      of
      six business segments: Bronze, Casket, Cremation, Graphics Imaging, Marking
      Products and Merchandising Solutions. The Bronze segment is a leading
      manufacturer of cast bronze memorials and other memorialization products, cast
      and etched architectural products and is a leading builder of mausoleums in
      the
      United States. The Casket segment is a leading casket manufacturer in the United
      States and produces a wide variety of wood and metal caskets. The Cremation
      segment is a leading designer and manufacturer of cremation equipment and
      cremation caskets primarily in North America. The Graphics Imaging segment
      manufactures and provides brand solutions, printing plates, pre-press services
      and imaging services for the primary packaging and corrugated industries. The
      Marking Products segment designs, manufactures and distributes a wide range
      of
      marking and coding equipment and consumables, and industrial automation products
      for identifying, tracking and conveying various consumer and industrial
      products, components and packaging containers. The Merchandising Solutions
      segment designs and manufactures merchandising displays and systems and provides
      creative merchandising and marketing solutions services.  

The
      Company has manufacturing and marketing facilities in the United States, Canada,
      Mexico, Australia, and Europe. 

2. 

SUMMARY
                OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES: 

Principles
      of Consolidation: 

The
      consolidated financial statements include all domestic and foreign subsidiaries
      in which the Company maintains an ownership interest and has operating control.
      All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.

Use
      of
      Estimates: 

The
      preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
      accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions
      that
      affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of
      contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
      the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
      Actual results could differ from those estimates. 

Foreign
      Currency: 

Balance
      sheet accounts for foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at
      exchange rates in effect at the consolidated balance sheet date. Gains or losses
      that result from this process are recorded in other comprehensive income. The
      revenue and expense accounts of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S.
      dollars at the average exchange rates that prevailed during the
      period. 

42 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

Cash
      and
      Cash Equivalents: 

For
      purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, the Company considers
      all
      investments purchased with a remaining maturity of three months or less to
      be
      cash equivalents. The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents approximates
      fair value due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.  

Allowance
      for Doubtful Accounts: 

The
      allowance for doubtful accounts is based on an evaluation of specific customer
      accounts for which available facts and circumstances indicate collectibility
      may
      be a problem. In addition, the allowance includes a reserve for all customers
      based on historical collection experience. 

Inventories: 

Inventories
      are stated at the lower of cost or market with cost generally determined under
      the average cost method. 

Property,
      Plant and Equipment: 

Property,
      plant and equipment are carried at cost. Deprecia-tion is computed primarily
      on
      the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which
      generally range from 10 to 45 years for buildings and 3 to 12 years for
      machinery and equipment. Gains or losses from the disposition of assets are
      reflected in operating profit. The cost of maintenance and repairs is charged
      against income as incurred. Renewals and betterments of a nature considered
      to
      extend the useful lives of the assets are capitalized. Property, plant and
      equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
      circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be
      recoverable. Recoverability of assets is determined by comparing the estimated
      undiscounted net cash flows of the operations to which the assets relate. An
      impairment loss would be recognized when the carrying amount of the assets
      exceeds the estimated undiscounted net cash flows. 

Goodwill
      and Other Intangible Assets: 

Goodwill
      is not amortized but is subject to annual review for impairment. Intangible
      assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, ranging from 2 to 20
      years, unless such lives are considered to be indefinite. A significant decline
      in cash flows generated from these assets may result in a write-down of the
      carrying values of the related assets. 

Environmental: 

Costs
      that mitigate or prevent future environmental issues or extend the life or
      improve equipment utilized in current operations are capitalized and depreciated
      on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets.
      Costs that relate to current operations or an existing condition caused by
      past
      operations are expensed. Environmental liabilities are recorded when the
      Company s obligation is probable and reasonably estimable. Accruals for losses
      from environmental remediation obligations do not consider the effects of
      inflation, and anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present
      value. 

Treasury
      Stock: 

Treasury
      stock is carried at cost. The cost of treasury shares sold is determined under
      the average cost method.  

43 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

      Income
      Taxes: 

Deferred
      tax assets and liabilities are provided for the differences between the
      financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax
      rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse.
      Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is
      more
      likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. Deferred income taxes
      for U.S. tax purposes have not been provided on certain undistributed earnings
      of foreign subsidiaries, as such earnings are considered to be reinvested
      indefinitely. To the extent earnings are expected to be returned in the
      foreseeable future, the associated deferred tax liabilities are provided.

Revenue
      Recognition: 

Revenues
      are generally recognized when title and risk of loss pass to the customer,
      which
      is typically at the time of product shipment. For pre-need sales of memorials
      and vases, revenue is recognized when the memorial has been manufactured to
      the
      customer s specifications (e.g., name and birth date), title has been
      transferred to the customer and the memorial and vase are placed in storage
      for
      future delivery. A liability has been recorded in Estimated Finishing Costs
      for
      the estimated costs of finishing pre-need bronze memorials and vases that have
      been manufactured and placed in storage prior to July 1, 2003 for future
      delivery. 

In
      July
      2003, the Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) issued Issue No. 00-21  Revenue
      Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.  Issue No. 00-21 addresses certain
      aspects of the accounting by a vendor for arrangements under which it will
      perform multiple revenue generating activities. The provisions of Issue No.
      00-21 were effective July 1, 2003 and have been applied prospectively by the
      Company to the finishing and storage elements of its pre-need sales. Beginning
      July 1, 2003, revenue is deferred by the Company on the portion of pre-need
      sales attributable to the final finishing and storage of the pre-need
      merchandise. Deferred revenue for final finishing is recognized at the time
      the
      pre-need merchandise is finished and shipped to the customer. Deferred revenue
      related to storage is recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated
      average time that pre-need merchandise is held in storage.  

At
      September 30, 2006, the Company held 354,182 memorials and 248,104 vases in
      its
      storage facilities under the pre-need sales program. 

Construction
      revenues are recognized under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting
      using the cost-to-cost method. The Company offers rebates to certain customers
      participating in volume purchase programs. Rebates are estimated and recorded
      as
      a reduction in sales at the time the Company s products are sold. 

Share-Based
      Payment: 

Prior
      to
      October 1, 2005, the Company accounted for its stock-based compensation plan
      in
      accordance with the intrinsic value provisions of Accounting Principles Board
      Opinion ( APB ) No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  and provided
      the required pro-forma disclosures of Statement of Financial Accounting
      Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation . Effective
      October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based
      Payment , ( SFAS No. 123 (R) ) using the modified retrospective method.
      Accordingly, stock-based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based
      on
      the fair value of the award, and is recognized as expense over the employee
      requisite service period. In accordance with SFAS No. 123(R), financial
      statements for all periods prior to October 1, 2005 have been adjusted to give
      effect to the fair-value method of accounting for all awards granted in fiscal
      years beginning after December 15, 1994. Amounts previously disclosed as
      pro-forma adjustments have been reflected in earnings for all prior
      periods. 

44 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

Derivatives
      and Hedging: 

Derivatives
      are held as part of a formal documented hedging program. All derivatives are
      straight forward and held for purposes other than trading. Matthews measures
      effectiveness by formally assessing, at least quarterly, the historical and
      probable future high correlation of changes in the fair value or future cash
      flows of the hedged item. If the hedging relationship ceases to be highly
      effective or it becomes probable that an expected transaction will no longer
      occur, gains and losses on the derivative will be recorded in other income
      (deductions) at that time. 

Changes
      in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded
      in
      other comprehensive income, net of tax and are reclassified to earnings in
      a
      manner consistent with the underlying hedged item. The cash flows from
      derivative activities are recognized in the statement of cash flows in a manner
      consistent with the underlying hedged item. 

Research
      and Development Expenses: 

Research
      and development costs are expensed as incurred and were approximately $2,800,
      $3,300 and $3,000 for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
      respectively. 

Earnings
      Per Share: 

Basic
      earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the average number
      of
      common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the
      treasury stock method, which assumes the issuance of common stock for all
      dilutive securities. 

Reclassifications
      and Restatements: 

Prior
      period amounts have been adjusted to reflect the modified retrospective adoption
      method of SFAS No. 123(R) (See Note 8). In addition, certain reclassifications
      have been made in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and Consolidated
      Balance Sheets for prior periods to conform to the current period presentation.

3. 

INVENTORIES: 

Inventories
      at September 30 consisted of the following: 

4. 

INVESTMENTS: 

Investment
      securities are recorded at estimated market value at the consolidated balance
      sheet date and, except for investments held in a non-revocable trust established
      to fund benefit payments under the Company s supplemental retirement plan, are
      classified as available-for-sale. Short-term investments consisted principally
      of corporate obligations with purchased maturities of over three months but
      less
      than one year. The cost of short-term investments approximated market value
      at
      September 30, 2006 and 2005. Investments classified as non-current and available
      for sale consisted of securities of the U.S. government and its agencies and
      corporate obligations with purchased maturities in the range of one to five
      years. Accrued interest on these non-current investment securities was
      classified with short-term investments. 

45 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

At
      September 30, 2006 and 2005, non-current investments classified as available
      for
      sale were as follows: 

Unrealized
      gains and losses on investment securities, including related deferred taxes,
      are
      reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income. Realized gains and losses
      are based on the specific identification method and are recorded in investment
      income. Realized gains (losses) for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 were not
      material. Bond premiums and discounts are amortized on the straight-line method,
      which does not significantly differ from the interest method. 

In
      addition, investments included the Company's 49% ownership interest in Applied
      Technology Developments, Ltd. ("ATD"), which was $647 at September 30, 2006
      and
      2005. The investment in ATD was recorded under the equity method of accounting.
      Investments also included ownership interests in various entities of less than
      20%, which totaled $1,222 and $1,193 at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
      respectively. Investments of less than 20% ownership interest are recorded
      under
      the cost method of accounting. 

Investments
      at September 30, 2006 and 2005 also included various mutual funds (classified
      as
      trading securities) valued at $4,598 and $4,397, respectively, held in a
      non-revocable trust established to fund benefit payments under the Company s
      supplemental retirement plan. 

46 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

5. 

PROPERTY,
                PLANT AND EQUIPMENT: 

Property,
      plant and equipment and the related accumulated depreciation at September 30,
      2006 and 2005 were as follows: 

During
      the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company recorded a pre-tax gain of
      approximately $2,670 from the sale of a facility and a pre-tax charge of
      approximately $986 related to asset impairments. 

6. 

LONG-TERM
                DEBT: 

Long-term
      debt at September 30, 2006 and 2005 consisted of the following: 

The
      Company has a domestic Revolving Credit Facility with a syndicate of financial
      institutions. In February 2005, the facility, which was originally in the amount
      of $125,000, was amended to increase the borrowing capacity to $150,000.
      Borrowings under the amended facility, which is scheduled to mature on April
      30,
      2009, bear interest at LIBOR plus a factor ranging from .50% to 1.00% based
      on
      the Company s leverage ratio. The leverage ratio is defined as net indebtedness
      divided by EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
      amortization). The Company is required to pay an annual commitment fee ranging
      from .20% to .30% (based on the Company s leverage ratio) of the unused portion
      of the facility. The Revolving Credit Facility, as amended, requires the Company
      to maintain certain leverage and interest coverage ratios. A portion of the
      facility (not to exceed $10,000) is available for the issuance of trade and
      standby letters of credit. Outstanding borrowings on the Revolving Credit
      Facility at September 30, 2006 and 2005 were $123,167 and $122,500 respectively.
      The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding borrowings at September 30,
      2006 and 2005 was 4.88% and 3.80%, respectively. 

47 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

In
      April
      2004, the Company entered into an interest rate swap that fixed, for a five
      year
      period, the interest rate on borrowings in an  

      initial
      amount of $50,000. The interest rate was fixed at 2.66% plus a factor based
      on
      the Company s leverage ratio (the factor was .50% at September 30, 2006). The
      interest rate swap was designated as a cash flow hedge of the future variable
      interest payments under the Revolving Credit Facility which are considered
      probable of occurring. Based on the Company s assessment, all of the critical
      terms of the hedge matched the underlying terms of the hedged debt and related
      forecasted interest payments and as such, these hedges were considered
      effective. Equal quarterly principal payments of $2,500 plus interest are due
      on
      this borrowing until its maturity in April 2009. 

In
      July
      2005, the Company increased its outstanding borrowings under the Revolving
      Credit Facility. The additional borrowings were used to complete the acquisition
      of Milso Industries ( Milso ). Effective September 30, 2005, the Company entered
      into an interest rate swap that fixed, for the period through the maturity
      of
      the Revolving Credit Facility, the interest rate on the additional borrowings
      in
      an initial amount of $50,000. The interest rate was fixed at 4.14% plus a factor
      based on the Company s leverage ratio (the factor  

      was
      .50%
      at September 30, 2006). The interest rate swap was designated as a cash flow
      hedge of the future variable interest payments under the Revolving Credit
      Facility, which are considered probable of occurring. Based on the Company s
      assessment, all of the critical terms of the hedge match the underlying terms
      of
      the hedged debt and related forecasted interest payments and as such, these
      hedges are considered effective. Equal quarterly principal payments of $3,333
      plus interest are due on this $50,000 portion of the borrowing until its
      maturity in April 2009. 

The
      fair
      value of the interest rate swaps reflected an unrealized gain of $1,507 ($918
      after tax) at September 30, 2006 that is included in shareholders  equity as
      part of accumulated other comprehensive income. Assuming market rates remain
      constant with the rates at September 30, 2006, approximately $356 of the $918
      gain included in accumulated other comprehensive income is expected to be
      recognized in earnings as an adjustment to interest expense over the next twelve
      months. 

The
      Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Matthews International GmbH
      ( MIGmbH ), has a credit facility with National Westminster Bank Plc for
      borrowings up to 10.0 million Euros. Outstanding borrowings under the credit
      facility totaled 8.5 million Euros ($10,779) and 8.0 million Euros ($9,617)
      at
      September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The weighted-average interest rate
      on
      outstanding borrowings of MIGmbH at September 30, 2006 and 2005 was 3.69% and
      2.66%, respectively. 

The
      Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Caggiati S.p.A., has several
      loans
      with various Italian banks. Outstanding borrowings on these loans totaled 8.0
      million Euros ($10,195) and 9.0 million Euros ($10,900) at September 30, 2006
      and 2005, respectively. Caggiati S.p.A. also has three lines of credit totaling
      8.4 million Euros ($10,614) with the same Italian banks. Outstanding borrowings
      on these lines were 2.3 million Euros ($2,961) and 2.8 million Euros ($3,363)
      at
      September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The weighted-average interest rate
      on
      outstanding borrowings of Caggiati S.p.A. at September 30, 2006 and 2005 was
      3.17% and 2.81%, respectively.  

Aggregate
      maturities of long-term debt, including short-term borrowings and capital
      leases, follows: 

The
      carrying amounts of the Company's borrowings under its financing arrangements
      approximated their fair value. 

48 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

7. 

SHAREHOLDERS'
                EQUITY: 

The
      authorized common stock of the Company consists of 70,000,000 shares of Class
      A
      Common Stock, $1 par value. 

The
      Company has a stock repurchase program, which was initiated in 1996. Under
      the
      program, the Company's Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of
      a
      total of 10,000,000 shares of Matthews  common stock, of which 9,135,146 shares
      have been repurchased as of September 30, 2006. The buy-back program is designed
      to increase shareholder value, enlarge the Company's holdings of its common
      stock, and add to earnings per share. Repurchased shares may be retained in
      treasury, utilized for acquisitions, or reissued to employees or other
      purchasers, subject to the restrictions of the Company s Restated Articles of
      Incorporation. 

Comprehensive
      income consists of net income adjusted for changes, net of any related income
      tax effect, in cumulative foreign currency translation, the fair value of
      derivatives, unrealized investment gains and losses and minimum pension
      liability.  

Accumulated
      other comprehensive income at September 30, 2006 and 2005 consisted of the
      following: 

8. 

SHARE-BASED
                PAYMENTS: 

The
      Company has a stock incentive plan that provides for grants of incentive stock
      options, non-statutory stock options and restricted share awards in an aggregate
      number not to exceed 15% of the outstanding shares of the Company s common stock
      (4,745,144 shares at September 30, 2006). The plan is administered by the
      Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The option price for each
      stock option that may be granted under the plan may not be less than the fair
      market value of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. Outstanding
      stock options are exercisable in various share amounts based on the attainment
      of certain market value levels of Class A Common Stock. In addition, options
      generally vest in one-third increments after three, four and five years,
      respectively, from the grant date (but, in any event, not until the attainment
      of the certain market value levels). The options expire on the earlier of ten
      years from the date of grant, upon employment termination, or within specified
      time limits following voluntary employment termination (with the consent of
      the
      Company), retirement or death. The Company generally settles employee stock
      option exercises with treasury shares. 

Prior
      to
      October 1, 2005, the Company accounted for its stock-based compensation plan
      in
      accordance with the intrinsic value provisions of APB No. 25 and provided the
      required pro-forma disclosures of SFAS No. 123. Effective October 1, 2005,
      the
      Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified retrospective method.
      Accordingly, stock-based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based
      on
      the fair value of the award, and is recognized as expense over the employee
      requisite service period. Beginning in fiscal 2006, expense is recognized
      immediately for participants eligible for normal retirement, where appropriate
      under the vesting provisions of the grants to such participants. In accordance
      with SFAS No. 123(R), financial statements for all periods prior to October
      1,
      2005 have been restated to give effect to the fair-value based method of
      accounting for all awards granted in fiscal years beginning after December
      15,
      1994. Amounts previously disclosed as pro-forma adjustments have been reflected
      in earnings for all prior periods. 

49 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

The
      following table details the impact of retrospective application of SFAS No.
      123(R) on previously reported amounts: 

For
      the
      years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, stock-based compensation cost
      totaled $3,865, $2,874 and $2,716, respectively. The associated future income
      tax benefit recognized was $1,507, $1,121 and $1,054 for the years ended
      September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

The
      amount of cash received from the exercise of stock options was $2,028, $5,894
      and $10,629, for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
      respectively. In connection with these exercises, the tax benefits realized
      by
      the Company were $902,     $3,148
      and $4,517     for
      the
      years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

50 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

The
      transactions for shares under options for the year ended September 30, 2006
      were
      as follows: 

The
      weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted was $9.47 per share
      in
      2006, $11.61 per share in 2005 and $9.33 per share in 2004. The fair value
      of
      shares earned was $3,572, $2,606 and $1,714 during the years ended September
      30,
      2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The intrinsic value of options (which is
      the
      amount by which the stock price exceeded the exercise price of the options
      on
      the date of exercise) exercised during the years ended September 30, 2006,
      2005
      and 2004 was $2,411, $9,132 and $13,028, respectively.  

The
      transactions for non-vested shares for the year ended September 30, 2006 were
      as
      follows: 

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to
      non-vested stock options was approximately $4,981. This cost is expected to
      be
      recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.5 years in accordance with the
      vesting periods of the options.  

As
      of
      October 1, 2005, the fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date
      of
      grant using a binomial lattice valuation model. Prior to October 1, 2005, the
      fair value of each option award was estimated on the grant date using a
      Black-Scholes valuation model. The following table indicates the assumptions
      used in estimating fair value for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005
      and
      2004.  

51 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

The
      risk
      free interest rate is based on United States Treasury yields at the date of
      grant. The dividend yield is based on the most recent dividend payment and
      average stock price over the 12 months prior to the grant date. Expected
      volatilities are based on the implied volatility of market traded options and
      the historical volatility of the Company s stock price. The expected term
      represents an estimate of the period of time options are expected to remain
      outstanding. Separate employee groups and option characteristics are considered
      separately for valuation purposes.  

Under
      the
      Company s Director Fee Plan, directors who are not also officers of the Company
      each receive, as an annual retainer fee, either cash or shares of the Company's
      Class A Common Stock equivalent to $30. Where the annual retainer fee is
      provided in shares, each director may elect to be paid these shares on a current
      basis or have such shares credited to a deferred stock account as phantom stock,
      with such shares to be paid to the director subsequent to leaving the Board.
      Directors may also elect to receive the common stock equivalent of meeting
      fees
      credited to a deferred stock account. The value of deferred shares is recorded
      in other liabilities. Shares deferred under the Director Fee Plan at
      September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were 49,569, 51,313 and
      50,064, respectively.     Additionally,
      beginning in fiscal 2005, directors who are not also officers of the Company
      each receive an annual stock-based grant (non-statutory stock options, stock
      appreciation rights and/or restricted shares) with a value of $40. Stock options
      granted under the Director Fee Plan during the years ended September 30, 2006
      and 2005 were 4,800 and 17,500, respectively. All of the stock options were
      outstanding and unvested at September 30, 2006. Additionally, 4,800 shares
      of
      restricted stock were granted in March 2006 under the Director Fee Plan. The
      restricted shares generally vest two years after the date of issuance. A total
      of 500,000 shares have been authorized to be issued under the Director Fee
      Plan. 

9.
      EARNINGS PER SHARE: 

52 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

10. 

PENSION
                AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT PLANS: 

The
      Company provides defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans to
      certain employees. The following provides a reconciliation of benefit
      obligations, plan assets and funded status of the plans: 

The
      accumulated benefit obligation for the Company s defined benefit pension plans
      was $91,442 and $91,095 at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
      respectively. 

53 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

Net
      periodic pension and other postretirement benefit cost for the plans included
      the following: 

Benefit
      payments under the Company s principal retirement plan are made from plan
      assets, while benefit payments under the postretirement benefit plan are made
      from the Company s operating funds. Under IRS regulations, the Company was not
      required to make any contributions to its principal retirement plan in fiscal
      year 2006. Contributions of $793 and $1,473 were made under the Company s
      retirement plans and postretirement plan, respectively, in fiscal 2006.

The
      measurement date of annual actuarial valuations for the Company s principal
      retirement and other postretirement benefit plans is July 31, and the
      weighted-average assumptions for those plans were: 

The
      Company's principal pension plan maintains a substantial portion of its assets
      in equity securities in accordance with the investment policy established by
      the
      Company s pension board. Based on an analysis of the historical performance of
      the plan's assets and consultation with its independent investment advisor,
      the
      Company has maintained the long-term rate of return assumption for these assets
      at 9.0% for purposes of determining pension cost and funded status under SFAS
      No. 87. The Company s discount rate assumption used in determining the present
      value of the projected benefit obligation is based upon published indices for
      long-term (10-year) high quality bonds. The discount rate was 6.50%, 5.75%
      and
      6.50% in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, reflecting long-term bond
      rates during those periods. 

54 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

Benefit
      payments expected to be paid are as follows: 

For
      measurement purposes, rates of increase of 10.0% in the per capita cost of
      health care benefits were assumed for 2006; the rates were assumed to decrease
      gradually to 5.0% for 2014 and remain at that level thereafter. Assumed health
      care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported. An
      increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates by one percentage point
      would have increased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of
      September 30, 2006 by $902 and the aggregate of the service and interest cost
      components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the year then ended
      by $104. A decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rates by one
      percentage point would have decreased the accumulated postretirement benefit
      obligation as of September 30, 2006 by $788 and the aggregate of the service
      and
      interest cost components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the
      year then ended by $90. 

The
      provision for income taxes consisted of the following: 

55 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

The
      reconciliation of the federal statutory tax rate to the consolidated effective
      tax rate was as follows: 

The
      Company's foreign subsidiaries had income before income taxes for the years
      ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 of approximately $24,500, $24,600 and
      $23,300, respectively. At September 30, 2006, undistributed earnings of foreign
      subsidiaries for which deferred U.S. income taxes have not been provided
      approximated $58,200. During fiscal 2005, the Company s Chief Executive Officer
      and Board of Directors approved a domestic reinvestment program as required
      by
      the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The Company repatriated $13,700 of
      dividends in fiscal 2005, on which taxes were provided in accordance with FASB
      Staff Position No. 109-2, "Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign
      Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004"
      . 

56 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

12. 

COMMITMENTS
                AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES: 

The
      Company operates various production, warehouse and office facilities and
      equipment under operating lease agreements. Annual rentals under these and
      other
      operating leases were $13,747, $10,950 and $7,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
      respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating
      lease arrangements for fiscal years 2007 through 2011 are $8,417, $7,075,
      $5,011, $3,684 and $2,937, respectively, and $5,660 thereafter.  

The
      Company is party to various legal proceedings, the eventual outcome of which
      are
      not predictable. Although the ultimate disposition of these proceedings is
      not
      presently determinable, management is of the opinion that they should not result
      in liabilities in an amount which would materially affect the Company s
      consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
      flows. 

The
      Company has employment agreements with certain employees, the terms of which
      expire at various dates between 2007 and 2010. The agreements generally provide
      for base salary and bonus levels and include non-compete provisions. The
      aggregate commitment for salaries under these agreements at September 30, 2006
      was $10,884. 

13. 

ENVIRONMENTAL
                MATTERS: 

The
      Company's operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws and
      regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and
      regulations impose limitations on the discharge of materials into the
      environment and require the Company to obtain and operate in compliance with
      conditions of permits and other government authorizations. As such, the Company
      has developed environmental, health and safety policies and procedures that
      include the proper handling, storage and disposal of hazardous
      materials. 

The
      Company is party to various environmental matters. These include obligations
      to
      investigate and mitigate the effects on the environment of the disposal of
      certain materials at various operating and non-operating sites. The Company
      is
      currently performing environmental assessments and remediation at these sites,
      as appropriate. In addition, prior to its acquisition, The York Group, Inc.
      ( York ) was identified, along with others, by the Environmental Protection
      Agency as a potentially responsible party for remediation of a landfill site
      in
      York, Pennsylvania. At this time, the Company has not been joined in any lawsuit
      or administrative order related to the site or its clean-up. 

At
      September 30, 2006, an accrual of $9,953 had been recorded for environmental
      remediation (of which $925 was classified in other current liabilities),
      representing management's best estimate of the probable and reasonably estimable
      costs of the Company's known remediation obligations. The accrual, which
      reflects previously established reserves assumed with the acquisition of York
      and additional reserves recorded as a purchase accounting adjustment, does
      not
      consider the effects of inflation and anticipated expenditures are not
      discounted to their present value. While final resolution of these contingencies
      could result in costs different than current accruals, management believes
      the
      ultimate outcome will not have a significant effect on the Company's
      consolidated results of operations or financial position. 

57 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

14. 

SUPPLEMENTAL
                CASH FLOW INFORMATION: 

Changes
      in working capital items as presented in the Consolidated Statement of Cash
      Flows consisted of the following: 

15. 

SEGMENT
                INFORMATION: 

The
      Company's products and operations consist of two principal businesses that
      are
      comprised of three operating segments each, as described under Nature of
      Operations (Note 1): Memorialization Products (Bronze, Casket, Cremation) and
      Brand Solutions (Graphics Imaging, Marking Products, Merchandising Solutions)
      (see Note 16). Management evaluates segment performance based on operating
      profit (before income taxes) and does not allocate non-operating items such
      as
      investment income, interest expense, other income (deductions), net and minority
      interest. 

The
      accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Summary
      of Significant Accounting Policies (Note 2). Intersegment sales are accounted
      for at negotiated prices. Operating profit is total revenue less operating
      expenses. Segment assets include those assets that are used in the Company's
      operations within each segment. Assets classified under  Other  principally
      consist of cash and cash equivalents, investments, deferred income taxes and
      corporate headquarters' assets. Long-lived assets include property, plant and
      equipment (net of accumulated depreciation), goodwill, and other intangible
      assets (net of accumulated amortization).  

58 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

Information
      about the Company's segments follows: 

Information
      about the Company's operations by geographic area follows: 

59 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

Fiscal
      2006: 

Acquisition
      spending, net of cash acquired, during the year ended September 30, 2006 totaled
      $32,278, and primarily included the following: 

On
      March
      1, 2006, the Company acquired Royal Casket Company ( Royal ), a distributor of
      primarily York brand caskets in the Southwest region of the United States.
      The
      transaction was structured as an asset purchase with potential additional
      consideration payable contingent upon the operating performance of the acquired
      operations during the next five years. The Company expects to account for this
      consideration as additional purchase price. The excess of purchase price over
      the fair market value of net assets acquired was allocated to goodwill. The
      acquisition was intended to expand Matthews  casket distribution capabilities in
      the Southwestern United States.  

On
      February 23, 2006, the Company acquired The Doyle Group ( Doyle ), a provider of
      reprographic services to the packaging industry, located in Oakland, California.
      The transaction was structured as an asset purchase, with potential additional
      consideration payable contingent upon the operating performance of the acquired
      operations during the next three years. The Company expects to account for
      this
      consideration as additional purchase price. The excess of purchase price over
      the fair market value of net assets acquired was allocated to goodwill. The
      acquisition was intended to expand the Company s graphics business in the
      Western United States.  

In
      September 2005, the Company acquired an additional 30% interest in S+T
      Gesellschaft fur Reprotechnik GmbH ( S+T ) which was paid in October 2005. The
      Company had acquired a 50% interest in S+T in 1998. 

Fiscal
      2005: 

In
      July
      2005, the Company acquired Milso, a leading manufacturer and marketer of caskets
      in the United States. Milso, headquartered in Brooklyn, New York, has
      manufacturing operations in Richmond, Indiana and maintains distribution centers
      throughout the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest and Southwest regions of the
      United States. The transaction was structured as an asset purchase, at an
      initial purchase price of approximately $95,000. In connection with the
      contingent consideration provisions of the acquisition agreement, the Company
      has agreed to pay additional purchase consideration of $7,000. The additional
      consideration, which will be paid in fiscal 2007, was recorded as additional
      purchase price as of September 30, 2006. The acquisition was intended to expand
      Matthews  products and services in the United States casket market. 

Acquired
      intangible assets of Milso include trade names with an assigned value of $5,800,
      which are not subject to amortization. Intangible assets also include customer
      relationships with an assigned value of $10,400 to be amortized over their
      estimated useful lives of 20 years. 

60 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

The
      following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired
      and
      liabilities assumed of Milso at the date of acquisition. 

In
      June
      2005, the Company paid additional consideration of 5.0 million Euros ($6,000)
      to
      the minority owner of Rudolf Reproflex GmbH ( Rudolf ) under the terms of the
      original acquisition agreement. The Company had acquired a 75% interest in
      Rudolf in 2001. 

Fiscal
      2004: 

In
      August
      2004, the Company acquired The InTouch Group, Limited ( InTouch ), a leading
      provider of reprographic services to the packaging industry in the United
      Kingdom. InTouch is headquartered in Leeds, England and has operations in
      London, Portsmouth, Manchester and Boston, Massachusetts. The transaction was
      structured as a stock purchase, at a cost of approximately $39,000. The
      acquisition was intended to further the Company s position as a provider of
      reprographic services to the European packaging industry. 

In
      July
      2004, the Company acquired The Cloverleaf Group, Inc. ( Cloverleaf ), a provider
      of merchandising solutions. Cloverleaf was formed by the merger of iDL, Inc.,
      a
      merchandising solutions company headquartered near Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
      and
      Big Red Rooster, a marketing and design services organization located in
      Columbus, Ohio. The transaction was structured as an asset purchase, at a cost
      of approximately $34,000. The transaction was structured to include potential
      additional consideration during the next six years contingent on the future
      growth in value of the acquired operations. The Company expects to account
      for
      this additional consideration as additional purchase price. The acquisition
      was
      designed to expand the Company s products and services into the merchandising
      solutions market. 

61 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

The
      following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired
      and
      liabilities assumed of Cloverleaf and InTouch at their respective dates of
      acquisition. 

In
      July
      2004, the Company acquired Holjeron Corporation, an industrial controls
      manufacturer located near Portland, Oregon. The acquisition was structured
      as a
      stock purchase. In February 2005, additional consideration was paid in
      accordance with the purchase agreement. The acquisition was a part of Matthews 
strategy to increase its presence in the marking products industry.

The
      following unaudited pro forma information for the years ended September 30,
      2005
      and 2004 presents a summary of the consolidated results of Matthews combined
      with Milso, InTouch and Cloverleaf as if the acquisition had occurred on October
      1, 2003: 

These
      unaudited pro forma results have been prepared for comparative purposes only
      and
      include certain adjustments, such as interest expense on acquisition debt.
      The
      pro forma information does not purport to be indicative of the results of
      operations which actually would have resulted had the acquisition occurred
      on
      the date indicated, or which may result in the future. 

Matthews
      has accounted for these acquisitions using the purchase method and, accordingly,
      recorded the acquired assets and liabilities at their estimated fair values
      at
      the acquisition dates. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated
      fair
      value of the net assets acquired was recorded as goodwill. The acquired goodwill
      in the InTouch and Reproservice Munich acquisitions was not deductible for
      tax
      purposes.  

62 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

17. 

GOODWILL
                AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS: 

Goodwill
      is not amortized but is subject to annual review for impairment. In general,
      when the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its implied fair value,
      an
      impairment loss must be recognized. For purposes of testing for impairment
      the
      Company uses a combination of valuation techniques, including discounted cash
      flows. Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives unless
      such lives are considered to be indefinite. A significant decline in cash flows
      generated from these assets may result in a write-down of the carrying values
      of
      the related assets. 

The
      Company performed its annual impairment reviews in the second quarters of fiscal
      2006 and fiscal 2005 and determined that no adjustments to the carrying values
      of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangibles were necessary. 

Changes
      to goodwill, net of accumulated amortization, during the years ended September
      30, 2006 and 2005, follow. 

The
      additions to goodwill during fiscal 2006 related primarily to the acquisitions
      of Royal (Casket) and Doyle (Graphics Imaging). The additions to goodwill during
      fiscal 2005 primarily related to the acquisition of Milso (Casket), additional
      ownership acquired in S+T and Rudolf (Graphics Imaging), and additional
      consideration paid to complete the acquisition of Holjeron (Marking Products)
      (see Note 16).  

63 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

The
      following tables summarize the carrying amounts and related accumulated
      amortization for intangible assets as of September 30, 2006 and 2005,
      respectively. 

The
      additions to intangible assets during fiscal 2006 related to the acquisitions
      of
      Royal and Doyle (see Note 16).  

Amortization
      expense on intangible assets was $2,216, $1,826, and $498 in 2006, 2005 and
      2004, respectively. Amortization expense is estimated to be $1,900 in 2007,
      $1,870 in 2008, $1,780 in 2009, $1,300 in 2010 and $1,300 in 2011. 

18. 

ACCOUNTING
                PRONOUNCEMENTS: 

In
      November 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued
      FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1, "The Meaning of
      Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments"
      ("FSP 115-1"), which provides guidance on determining when investments in
      certain debt and equity securities are considered impaired, whether that
      impairment is other-than-temporary, and on measuring such impairment loss.
      FSP 115-1 also includes accounting considerations subsequent to the
      recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment and requires certain
      disclosures about unrealized losses that have not been recognized as
      other-than-temporary impairments. FSP 115-1 was adopted by the Company in
      the second quarter of fiscal 2006 as required and had no material impact on
      the
      Company s consolidated financial position and results of operations.

In
      June
      2006, FASB issued Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
      Taxes  (FIN 48) which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes
      recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS No.
      109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  This interpretation prescribes a recognition
      threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition
      and
      measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax
      return.  FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification,
      interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and
      transition. Any resulting cumulative effect of applying the provisions of FIN
      48
      upon adoption will be reported as an adjustment to beginning retained earnings
      in the period of adoption. The Interpretation is effective for fiscal years
      beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company is currently evaluating the
      impact of the adoption of FIN 48. 

64 

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued 

      (Dollar
      amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

      __________ 

In
      September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined
      Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  which amends SFAS 87, 88, 106
      and 132(R).  SFAS No. 158 requires employers to recognize the over-funded
      or under-funded status of defined benefit postretirement plans on the balance
      sheet and to recognize the corresponding adjustment in other comprehensive
      income. In addition, the statement requires recognition in other comprehensive
      income of gains or loss and prior service costs or credits that are not included
      as components of periodic benefit expense. These provisions of the statement
      are
      effective for public companies for fiscal years ending after December 15,
      2006.  Accordingly, the Company will adopt this provision of SFAS No. 158
      prospectively for the year-end financial statements dated September 30,
      2007.  If the Company had adopted SFAS No. 158 as of September 30, 2006,
      the liability for pension and postretirement benefits would have increased
      approximately $10,000, deferred tax assets would have increased approximately
      $3,900 and equity (other accumulated comprehensive income) would have decreased
      by approximately $6,100. 

Further,
      SFAS No. 158 requires the Company to measure the plan assets and benefit
      obligations of defined benefit postretirement plans as of the date of its
      year-end balance sheet. This provision of the SFAS No. 158 is effective for
      public companies for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008.  The
      Company currently measures plan assets and benefit obligations as of July 31
      of
      each year. The Company is considering the implications of this provision and
      the
      feasibility of earlier adoption of this portion of the statement.  Upon
      adoption, this provision is not expected to have a material effect on the
      financial statements. 

In
      September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements.  This
      Statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value
      in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about
      fair
      value measurements. The Statement applies under other accounting pronouncements
      that require or permit fair value measurements and does not require any new
      fair
      value measurements. The Statement is effective for financial statements issued
      for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The adoption of SFAS No.
      157
      is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated
      financial position or results of operations. 

65 

SUPPLEMENTARY
      FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Selected
      Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited): 

The
      following table sets forth certain items included in the Company's unaudited
      consolidated financial statements for each quarter of fiscal 2006 and fiscal
      2005. Prior year amounts contained in this table have been restated for the
      retrospective adoption of Statement of Financial Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123
      (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment . See Note 8 of the Notes to the
      Consolidated Financial Statements. 

66 

FINANCIAL
      STATEMENT SCHEDULE 

SCHEDULE
      II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

(1) 

Amount
                comprised principally of acquisitions and purchase accounting adjustments
                in connection with acquisitions. 

(2) 

Amounts
                determined not to be collectible, net of recoveries.

67 

ITEM
                9. 

CHANGES
                IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
                DISCLOSURE. 

There
      have been no changes in accountants or disagreements on accounting or financial
      disclosure between the Company and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent
      Registered Public Accounting Firm, for the fiscal years ended September 30,
      2006, 2005 and 2004. 

ITEM
      9A.     CONTROLS
      AND PROCEDURES. 

(a) 

Evaluation
                of Disclosure Controls and
                Procedures. 

Based
      on
      their evaluation at the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on
      Form 10-K, the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
      Officer have concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the
      "Exchange Act")) provide reasonable assurance that information required to
      be
      disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange
      Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
      specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. 

(b)
      Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  

Management s
      Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting is included in Management s
      Report to Shareholders in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(c)
      Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm.  

Management s
      assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
      reporting as of September 30, 2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report
      which is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

(d)
      Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  

There
      have been no changes in the Company s internal controls over financial reporting
      that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2006 that have
      materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      Company s internal controls over financial reporting. 

PART
      III 

ITEM
                10. 

DIRECTORS,
                OFFICERS and EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT OF THE
                REGISTRANT. 

In
      addition to the information reported in Part I of this Form 10-K, under the
      caption  Officers and Executive Management of the Registrant , the information
      required by this item as to the directors of the Company is hereby incorporated
      by reference from the information appearing under the captions  Proposal No. 1 -
      Elections of Directors ,  General Information Regarding Corporate Governance -
      Audit Committee  and  Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act  in the
      Company s definitive proxy statement, which involves the election of the
      directors and is to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
      pursuant to the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, within 120 days of the end
      of
      the Company s fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. 

The
      Company s Code of Ethics Applicable to Executive Management is set forth in
      Exhibit 14.1 hereto. 

68 

ITEM
                11. 

EXECUTIVE
                COMPENSATION. 

The
      information required by this item as to the compensation of directors and
      executive management of the Company is hereby incorporated by reference from
      the
      information appearing under the captions  Compensation of Executive Management
      and Retirement Benefits  and  Compensation of Directors  in the Company s
      definitive proxy statement which involves the election of directors and is
      to be
      filed with the Commission pursuant to the Exchange Act, within 120 days of
      the
      end of the Company s fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. The information
      contained in the  Report of the Compensation Committee  and the  Comparison of
      Five Year Cumulative Return (Performance Graph)  is specifically not
      incorporated herein by reference. 

ITEM
                12. 

SECURITY
                OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
                MANAGEMENT. 

The
      information required by this item as to the ownership by management and others
      of securities of the Company is hereby incorporated by reference from the
      information appearing under the caption  Stock Ownership  in the Company s
      definitive proxy statement which involves the election of directors and is
      to be
      filed with the Commission pursuant to the Exchange Act, within 120 days of
      the
      end of the Company s fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. 

Equity
      Compensation Plans: 

The
      Company has a stock incentive plan that provides for grants of incentive stock
      options, non-statutory stock options and restricted share awards in an aggregate
      number not to exceed 15% of the outstanding shares of the Company s common
      stock. The option price for each stock option that may be granted under the
      plan
      may not be less than the fair market value of the Company's common stock on
      the
      date of grant. Outstanding stock options are exercisable in various share
      amounts based on the attainment of certain market value levels of Class A Common
      Stock but, in the absence of such events, options granted in fiscal 2005 and
      prior are exercisable in full for a one-week period beginning five years from
      the date of grant. Options granted after fiscal 2006 will not allow for such
      one- week exercise period. In addition, options generally vest in one-third
      increments after three, four and five years, respectively, from the grant date
      (but, in any event, not until the attainment of the certain market value levels
      described above). The options expire on the earlier of ten years from the date
      of grant, upon employment termination, or within specified time limits following
      voluntary employment termination (with the consent of the Company), retirement
      or death. 

Under
      the
      Company s Director Fee Plan, directors who are not also officers of the Company
      each receive, as an annual retainer fee, either cash or shares of the Company's
      Class A Common Stock equivalent to $30,000. Where the annual retainer fee is
      provided in shares, each director may elect to be paid these shares on a current
      basis or have such shares credited to a deferred stock account as phantom stock,
      with such shares to be paid to the director subsequent to leaving the Board.
      Directors may also elect to receive the common stock equivalent of meeting
      fees
      credited to a deferred stock account. The value of deferred shares is recorded
      in other liabilities. Shares deferred under the Director Fee Plan at
      September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were 49,569, 51,313, and
      50,064, respectively. Additionally, beginning in fiscal 2005, directors who
      are not also officers of the Company each receive an annual stock-based grant
      (non-statutory stock options, stock appreciation rights and/or restricted
      shares) with a value of $40,000. Stock options granted under the Director Fee
      Plan during the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 were 4,800 and 17,500,
      respectively. All of the stock options were outstanding and unvested at
      September 30, 2006. Additionally, 4,800 shares of restricted stock were granted
      in March 2006 under the plan. The restricted shares generally vest two years
      after the date of issuance. A total of 500,000 shares have been authorized
      to be
      issued under the Director Fee Plan. 

69 

ITEM
      12.     SECURITY
      OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT, Continued 

The
      following table provides information about grants under the Company's equity
      compensation plans as of September 30, 2006: 

(1) 

The
                aggregate number of shares available for grant under such plan cannot
                exceed 15% of the outstanding shares of the Company s common stock and
                includes up to 1,000,000 shares that can be issued as restricted
                stock
                under the Company s 1992 Stock Incentive
                Plan. 

(2) 

Shares
                under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  Plan ) are purchased in the
                open market by employees at the fair market value of the Company s stock.
                The Company provides a matching contribution of 10% of such purchases
                subject to certain limitations under the Plan. As the Plan is an
                open
                market purchase plan, it does not have a dilutive
                effect. 

(3) 

Shares
                of restricted stock may be issued under the Director Fee
                Plan. 

ITEM
                13. 

CERTAIN
                RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
                TRANSACTIONS. 

The
      information required by this item as to certain relationships and transactions
      with management and other related parties of the Company is hereby incorporated
      by reference from the information appearing under the captions  Proposal No. 1 -
      Election of Directors  and  Certain Transactions  in the Company s definitive
      proxy statement, which involves the election of directors and is to be filed
      with the Commission pursuant to the Exchange Act, within 120 days of the end
      of
      the Company s fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. 

ITEM
                14. 

PRINCIPAL
                ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES. 

The
      information required by this item as to the fees billed and the services
      provided by the principal accounting firm of the Company is hereby incorporated
      by reference from the information appearing under the caption  Relationship with
      Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in the Company s definitive proxy
      statement, which involves the election of directors and is to be filed with
      the
      Commission pursuant to the Exchange Act within 120 days of the end of the
      Company s fiscal year ended September 30, 2006.  

70 

PART
      IV 

ITEM
                15. 

EXHIBITS,
                FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM
                8-K. 

(a)
      1.
      Financial Statements: 

The
      following items are included in Part II, Item 8: 

Pages 

Management s
                Report to Shareholders 

34 

Report
                of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

35-36 

Consolidated
                Balance Sheets 

37-38 

Consolidated
                Statements of Income 

39 

Consolidated
                Statements of Shareholders' Equity 

40 

Consolidated
                Statements of Cash Flows 

41 

Notes
                to Consolidated Financial Statements 

42-65 

Supplementary
                Financial Information 

66 

2. 

Financial
                Statement Schedules: 

Schedule
      II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts is included on pages 57 in Part II,
      Item
      8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

3. 

Exhibits
                Filed: 

The
      index
      to exhibits is on pages 73-75. 

(b) 

Reports
                on Form 8-K: 

On
      July
      24, 2006 Matthews filed a Current Report on Form 8-K under Item 2 in connection
      with a press release announcing its earnings for the third fiscal quarter of
      2006. 

On
      September 19, 2006 Matthews filed a Current Report on Form 8-K under Item 5
      in
      connection with the announcement of a new executive appointment.  

71 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
      by
      the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on December 13, 2006. 

MATTHEWS
                INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 

(Registrant) 

By 

/s/Joseph
                C. Bartolacci 

Joseph
                C. Bartolacci 

President
                and Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant
      to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
      been
      signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
      capacities indicated on December 13, 2006: 

/s/Joseph
                C. Bartolacci 

/s/Steven
                F. Nicola 

Joseph
                C. Bartolacci 

Steven
                F. Nicola 

President
                and Chief Executive Officer 

Chief
                Financial Officer, Secretary 

(Principal
                Executive Officer) 

and
                Treasurer (Principal Financial 

and
                Accounting Officer) 

/s/David
                M. Kelly 

/s/Robert
                G. Neubert 

David
                M. Kelly, Chairman of the Board 

Robert
                G. Neubert, Director 

/s/David
                J. DeCarlo 

/s/John
                P. O'Leary, Jr. 

David
                J. DeCarlo, Director 

John
                P. O'Leary, Jr., Director 

/s/Robert
                J. Kavanaugh 

/s/William
                J. Stallkamp 

Robert
                J. Kavanaugh, Director 

William
                J. Stallkamp, Director 

/s/Glenn
                R. Mahone 

/s/John
                D. Turner 

Glenn
                R. Mahone, Director 

John
                D. Turner, Director 

72 

MATTHEWS
      INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

      EXHIBITS 

      INDEX 

      __________ 

The
      following Exhibits to this report are filed herewith or, if marked with an
      asterisk (*), are incorporated by reference. Exhibits marked with an "a"
      represent a management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement
      required to be filed by Item 601(b)(10)(iii) of Regulation S-K. 

73 

INDEX,
                Continued 

_______ 

Exhibit
                No. 

Description 

Prior
                Filing or Sequential Page Numbers Herein 

10.10 

Agreement
                and Plan of Merger By and Among Matthews International Corporation,
                Empire
                Merger Corp., and The York Group, Inc., dated as of May 24, 2001
                * 

Exhibit
                Number 10.3 to Form 8-K dated May 24, 2001 

10.11 

Asset
                Purchase Agreement between I.D.L. Incorporated and Hugh Andrew, L.P.
                and
                Big Red Rooster, Inc. and The Cloverleaf Group, L.P. and iDL shareholders
                and the BRR shareholders and The Cloverleaf Group, Inc. and Matthews
                International Corporation dated as of July 19, 2004* 

Exhibit
                Number 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
                2004 

10.12 

Share
                Sale and Purchase Agreement between Graeme Phillip King and Brian
                Ernest
                Tottman and Robert Greig Watkins and Geoffrey William Roberts and
                Helen M.
                King and Josephine Tottman and Sally R. Watkins and Jennifer R. Roberts
                and Matthews Holding Company (U.K.) Limited. 

Exhibit
                Number 10.11 to Form 10-K for the year ended September 30,
                2004 

10.13 

Asset
                Purchase Agreement by and among The York Group, Inc., Midnight Acquisition
                Corporation, Milso Industries, Inc., Milso Industries, LLC, SBC Holding
                Corporation, the Shareholders identified therein and Matthews
                International Corporation 

Exhibit
                Number 10.1 to Form 8-K dated on July 14, 2005 

14.1 

Form
                of Code of Ethics Applicable to Executive Management  

Exhibit
                Number 14.1 to Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2004

21 

Subsidiaries
                of the Registrant 

Filed
                Herewith 

23 

Consent
                of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Filed
                Herewith 

31.1 

Certification
                of Principal Executive Officer for Joseph C. Bartolacci 

Filed
                Herewith  

31.2 

Certification
                of Principal Financial Officer for Steven F. Nicola 

Filed
                Herewith 

74 

INDEX,
                Continued 

_______ 

Exhibit
                No. 

Description 

Prior
                Filing or Sequential Page Numbers
                Herein 

Copies
      of
      any Exhibits will be furnished to shareholders upon written request. Requests
      should be directed to Mr. Steven F. Nicola, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary
      and Treasurer of the Registrant. 

75 

<EX-10.4>
 2
 exhibit10-4serp.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.4 SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT PLAN

Exhibit 10.4 Supplemental Retirement Plan

Exhibit
      10.4  

Rev.
      9/13/06  

MATTHEWS
      INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION  

SUPPLEMENTAL
      RETIREMENT PLAN  

ORIGINALLY
      EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 1987  

AMENDED
      EFFECTIVE SEPTEMBER 13, 2006  

ARTICLE
      1      

GENERAL
      PROVISIONS  

1.1      Matthews
      International Corporation ("the    Company   ")
      originally adopted this Supplemental Retirement Plan ("   Supplemental
      Plan   "
      or
      "   Plan   ")
      effective October 1, 1987. This instrument amends and restates the Plan in
      its
      entirety, effective as of September 13, 2006. 

1.2      As
      amended from time to time, this Supplemental Plan shall be deemed to be a
      contract between the Company and each Participant. However, nothing contained
      in
      this Plan shall be deemed to give any Participant the right to be retained
      in
      service or to interfere with the right of the Company to discharge any
      Participant at any time without regard to the effect which such discharge shall
      have on such Participant's rights, if any, under this Plan. 

1.3      No
      Participant shall have the right to assign, transfer, hypothecate, encumber,
      commute or anticipate the right to any payments under this Supplemental Plan,
      and such payments shall not in any way be subject to any legal processes to
      levy
      on or attach the same for payment of any claim against any
      Participant. 

1.4      Defined
      Terms: The terms listed below, when used in this Supplemental Plan with (an)
      initial capital letter(s), are defined either explicitly or in context in the
      provisions identified below: 

ARTICLE
      2      

PARTICIPATION
      AND ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS  

In
      this
      Supplemental Plan, the term     Participant    
is
      sometimes used to refer to any one, or more, or all, of the following, as the
      context requires: Active Participant (2.1), Former Active Participant (2.4),
      Retired Participant (2.7), and/or Vested Participant (6.4(a)). 

Eligibility
      for Participation   

2.1     

      (a)      Except
      as
      otherwise provided in 2.2, each Officer of the Company shall become an
   Active
      Participant   
      in this
      Supplemental Plan as of the first day of the month next following the date
      on
      which he or she completes five years of active service as an Officer of the
      Company (the "   Minimum
      Officer Service Requirement   "). 

(b)      For
      purposes of this Plan, "   Officer   "
      shall
      include only those employees whom the Company's    Board
      of Directors   ,
      acting
      pursuant to the Company's Bylaws, have elected as executive officers of Matthews
      International Corporation. As such, "Officer" includes, but is not limited
      to:
      Chairman (if also a salaried employee of the Company), Vice Chairman (if also
      such an employee), Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer,
      Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer and Controller. However, assistant officers
      of the Company, officers of subsidiary companies, or managers of unincorporated
      business divisions or business units who hold titles such as "President" or
      "Vice President" of such a division or business unit, shall not, solely by
      virtue of holding such office or division officer designation, be deemed to
      be
      Officers of the Company for purposes of this Plan. 

2.2      Notwithstanding
      2.1: 

(a)      In
      its
      sole and absolute discretion and with no obligation to apply its discretion
      in a
      uniform manner, the Board of Directors may expressly waive the Minimum Officer
      Service Requirement with respect to any individual Officer and designate such
      Officer an Active Participant in the Plan effective at the time determined
      by
      the Board. 

(b)      An
      Officer who has not satisfied the Minimum Officer Service Requirement of 2.1
      or
      who has not been specially designated as an Active Participant pursuant to
      2.2(a), shall nevertheless become an Active Participant upon the occurrence
      of a
      "   Section 9
      Event   ",
      as
      defined in Section 9(A) of the Matthews International Corporation 1992
      Stock Incentive Plan (as amended through April 25, 2006 and as it may be amended
      hereafter), or similar change-of-control provisions in any successor plan
      adopted by the Company in place of the 1992 Stock Incentive Plan. 

(c)      An
      Officer who has not satisfied the Minimum Officer Service Requirement of 2.1(a)
      or the special designation requirements of 2.2(a), and who has both attained
      age 55 and become eligible to receive long-term disability benefits under
      the Company's long-term disability insurance plan ("   LTD
      Benefits   "),
      will
      become an Active Participant upon the last to occur of his or her (i) becoming
      eligible to receive LTD Benefits, or (ii) attainment of age 55 while receiving
      LTD Benefits. 

2.3      Following
      qualification as an Active Participant, an individual shall continue in such
      capacity until the earliest to occur of the following events: 

(a)      The
      Participant dies. 

(b)      The
      Participant's employment with the Company terminates, or, in the case of a
      Participant who is receiving LTD Benefits (2.2(c)), the Participant ceases
      to be
      eligible to continue to receive LTD Benefits, whichever occurs
      later. 

(c)      The
      Participant becomes a Former Active Participant (2.4) upon termination of his
      or
      her status as an Officer of the Company. 

(d)      The
      Participant becomes a Retired Participant (2.7). 

2.4      In
      the
      event that an Active Participant ceases to be an Officer of the Company, but
      continues to be an active employee of the Company in a non-Officer capacity,
      his
      or her benefits hereunder shall cease to accrue as of the date such Participant
      ceases to be an Officer of the Company. An individual who meets the criteria
      of
      this paragraph shall be a    Former
      Active Participant   . 

Eligibility
      for Benefits (Vesting, etc.)   

2.5       Vesting
      under Circumstances Other than a Section 9 Event  

(a)      Except
      as
      provided in 2.5(f), 2.6 or 2.7, an Active Participant or Former Active
      Participant (1) who voluntarily terminates employment or (2) whose employment
      with the Company is terminated involuntarily or by mutual agreement, shall
      have
      vested rights in his or her Accrued Benefit (Article 3) according to the
      following schedule: 

A
      positive amount determined hereunder shall be such Participant's    Vested
      Accrued Benefit   . 

(b)      Except
      as
      provided in 2.5(d), a Participant   with
      a
      vested percentage of 0% whose employment terminates,   shall
      forfeit all rights under the Plan and   no
      benefits of any kind shall be due or payable under the Plan to, or with respect
      to, such Participant, such Participant's Surviving Spouse, or such Participant's
      estate. 

(c)      Except
      as
      provided in 2.5(d), a Participant with a vested percentage of 50% whose
      employment terminates shall forfeit the remaining 50% of his or her Accrued
      Benefit. Such Participant shall be eligible to receive, and the Plan shall
      commence payment of, such Participant s 50% Vested Accrued Benefit as provided
      in 2.8. 

(d)      In
      the
      case of any particular Participant described in 2.5(b) or 2.5(c), the
   Compensation
      Committee   
      of the
      Company's Board of Directors, in the Committee s sole and absolute discretion
      and with no obligation to apply its discretion in a uniform manner, shall have
      full authority to waive such Participant's satisfaction of the requirement
      of
      performing future Continuous Service with the Company in order to achieve either
      a 50% Vested Accrued Benefit or a 100% Vested Accrued Benefit, and, in any
      such
      case, the Participant shall be deemed to be described in 2.5(c) or 2.5(e),
      as
      applicable under the action taken by the Committee. Solely for purposes of
      determining his or her eligibility to retire on an Early Retirement Date, a
      Participant who achieves a 100% Vested Accrued Benefit because of the
      Committee's action hereunder shall be deemed to have 15 years of Continuous
      Service. 

(e)      A
      Participant whose employment terminates with a vested percentage of 100%, shall
      be eligible to receive, and the Plan shall commence payment of, his or her
      100%
      Vested Accrued Benefit on the first applicable Retirement Date under 2.8 to
      occur following the Participant's termination of employment. For example, such
      a
      Participant who has attained the actual age of 55 or higher shall be eligible
      to
      receive, and the Plan shall commence payment of, his or her 100% Vested Accrued
      Benefit, on the first day of the month following his or her termination of
      employment. 

(f)      Notwithstanding
      2.5(a) through (e), if  

(i)      an
      involuntary or mutually-agreed-upon termination of employment occurred by reason
      of the Participant engaging in (1) a felonious act involving the Company or
      another employee of the Company, or (2) competition with, or conduct detrimental
      to, the Company as described in 4.9, or 

(ii)      at
      any
      time following a voluntary termination of employment it comes to the attention
      of the Compensation Committee that the Participant had engaged in such felonious
      act, competition or detrimental conduct prior to his or her voluntary
      termination of employment, 

then,
      in
      any such case, such Participant shall forfeit all rights under the Plan and
      no
      benefit (or further benefit) of any kind shall be due or payable under the
      Plan
      to, or with respect to, such Participant, such Participant's Surviving Spouse,
      or such Participant's estate. 

2.6       Vesting
      Upon a Section 9 Event  

(a)      An
      Active
      Participant or Former Active Participant who terminates employment with the
      Company, whether voluntarily, involuntarily, or by mutual agreement, at any
      time
      following the occurrence of a Section 9 Event, shall have a 100% Vested
      Accrued Benefit and become a Retired Participant (2.8),   and
      the
      Plan shall commence distribution of such Participant's benefits, effective
      on
      the first applicable Retirement Date occurring under 2.8 after such termination
      of employment. Further, and solely for purposes of such benefits commencing
      at
      an Early Retirement Date, such Participant shall be deemed to have had 15 years
      of Continuous Service at the date of such termination.  
      Moreover, if such Participant was an Active Participant at the time of such
      Section 9 Event, he or she shall thereafter be deemed to be five years
      older than his or her actual age, solely for purposes of  

(i)      determining
      his or her eligibility to commence receipt of benefits at an Early Retirement
      Date and the applicable Early Retirement Factor under 4.3(a), or 

(ii)      
      determining his or her eligibility to commence receipt of benefits or at his
      or
      her Normal Retirement Date or a Deferred Retirement Date (without application
      of
      an Early Retirement Factor). 

(b)      The
      following examples illustrate the effect, pursuant to 2.6(a), of attributing
      to
      an Active Participant additional five years of age: 

(i)      An
      Active
      Participant who terminated employment following a Section 9 Event and who,
      exactly coincident with such date of termination, attained the actual age of
      60
      years, would be deemed to have attained Normal Retirement Age and, therefore,
      would be eligible to commence to receive benefits, and the Plan would commence
      distribution of such Participant's Normal Retirement Benefit, on the first
      day
      of the month immediately following such Participant's termination of employment
      (such date being deemed to be the Participant s Normal Retirement
      Date). 

(ii)      An
      Active
      Participant who terminated employment following a Section 9 Event and who,
      at the date of such termination, had attained the actual age of 62 years, would
      be deemed to have attained Normal Retirement Age and, therefore, would be
      eligible to commence to receive benefits, and the Plan would commence
      distribution of such Participant's Normal Retirement Benefit, on the first
      day
      of the month immediately following such Participant's termination of employment
      (such date being deemed to be a Deferred Retirement Date). 

(iii)      An
      Active
      Participant who terminated employment following a Section 9 Event and who,
      exactly coincident with the date of such termination, attained the actual age
      of
      50 years old would be deemed to have attained Early Retirement Age and,
      therefore, would be eligible to commence to receive benefits, and the Plan
      would
      commence distribution of such Participant's Early Retirement Benefit, on the
      first day of the month immediately following such date of termination (such
      date
      being deemed to be an Early Retirement Date), with an Early Retirement Factor
      of
      70% under 4.3(a). 

(iv)      An
      Active
      Participant who terminated employment following a Section 9 Event, but who,
      at such date of termination, had not yet attained age 50 years, would be
      eligible to commence to receive benefits, and the Plan would commence
      distribution of such Participant's Early Retirement Benefit, on the first day
      of
      the month immediately following the date of the Participant s 50   th   
      birthday
      (at which time he or she with be deemed to have attained Early Retirement Age),
      with an Early Retirement Factor of 70% under 4.3(a). 

However,
      any such Participant who is deemed to be five years older than such
      Participant s actual age for purposes of eligibility for commencement of
      benefits (and, if applicable, determination of the appropriate Early Retirement
      Factor), shall not be deemed to be five years older for any other purpose
      relevant to the Plan (such as, e.g., the period during which a Social Security
      Supplement would be payable to such Participant under 4.3(b)), except as
      expressly provided in this instrument. 

2.7       Vesting
      Upon Eligibility for LTD Benefits  

Notwithstanding
      2.5, an Officer who becomes an Active Participant pursuant to 2.2(c), or an
      Active Participant or Former Active Participant who becomes disabled and
      eligible to receive LTD Benefits under the Company's long-term disability
      insurance plan, shall have a 100% Vested Accrued Benefit. 

2.8       Retirement
      and Commencement of Benefits  

(a)      An
      Active
      Participant (or Former Active Participant) who has attained a Vested Accrued
      Benefit on or prior to the date of his or her 65th birthday  
      may
      retire from active employment with the Company on the first day of the month
      following his or her 65th birthday (which is such Participant's "   Normal
      Retirement Date   "),
      shall
      become a    Retired
      Participant   ,
      and the
      Plan shall commence distribution of his or her Vested Accrued Normal Retirement
      Benefit. 

(b)      If
      an
      Active Participant (or Former Active Participant) shall     no     t   
      have
      attained a 50% or 100% Vested Accrued Benefit   on
      or
      prior to the date of his or her 65th birthday  ,
      he or
      she may become a Retired Participant pursuant to 2.8(c) at any time after he
      or
      she has accumulated sufficient additional Continuous Service (see 3.5(b)) to
      attain a 50% or 100% Vested Accrued Benefit. 

(c)      An
      Active
      Participant (or Former Active Participant) (1) who has attained a Vested Accrued
      Benefit on or prior to the date of his or her 65th birthday, or (2) who
      (pursuant to 2.8(b)) attains a Vested Accrued Benefit after his or her Normal
      Retirement Date; and who, in either case, retires from active employment with
      the Company on a     Deferred
      Retirement Date    
(being
      the first day of the month following the month in which his or her Normal
      Retirement Date occurred), shall become a Retired Participant, and the Plan
      shall commence distribution of his or her Vested Accrued Normal Retirement
      Benefit. 

(d)      An
      Active
      Participant (or Former Active Participant) who retires from active employment
      with the Company prior to his or her 65th birthday, but on or after the first
      day of any month following the occurrence of both (1) the Participant's 55th
      birthday, and (2) his or her completion of at least 15 years of Continuous
      Service (or his or her being expressly deemed in this Plan to have completed
      15
      years of Continuous Service solely for purposes of eligibility for Early
      Retirement), which first day of any month is an "   Early
      Retirement Date   ",
      shall
      become a Retired Participant,   and
      the
      Plan shall commence distribution of his or her   Early
      Retirement Benefit. 

(e)      An
      Active
      Participant (or Former Active Participant) whose employment terminates, or
      whose
      employment previously terminated, under circumstances described in 2.5(a)
      through 2.5(e), or in 2.6, shall become a Retired Participant, and the Plan
      shall commence distribution of his or her Vested Accrued Benefit, effective
      at
      the Participant s Early, Normal, or Deferred, Retirement Date, whichever applies
      under 2.5 or 2.6, and 2.8, to such Participant. (Hereinafter in this Plan,
      the
      term     Retirement
      Date    
is
      sometimes used to refer to the Early, Normal, or Deferred, Retirement Date
      on
      which a Participant s Early, Normal, or Deferred Retirement Benefit commenced
      (or would have commenced). 

(f)      A
      Participant who is receiving LTD Benefits (2.7) shall become a Retired
      Participant, and the Plan shall commence distribution of his or her Vested
      Accrued Benefit, effective at the Participant s Early, Normal, or Deferred,
      Retirement Date, whichever shall first occur following the later to occur of
      (a)
      the Participant's termination of employment, or (b) the cessation of the
      Participant's eligibility to continue to receive LTD Benefits. Solely for
      purposes of the Participant's eligibility to commence to receive benefits at
      an
      Early Retirement Date, such Participant shall be deemed to have 15 years of
      Continuous Service upon the later to occur of (a) the Participant's termination
      of employment, or (b) the cessation of the Participant's eligibility to continue
      to receive LTD Benefits. 

2.9      Notwithstanding
      any provision in this Article II regarding the date on which the Plan shall
      commence to pay a Participant s Retirement or Vested Accrued Benefit, the
      commencement of payment of any benefit under the Plan is subject to the
      provisions of 4.11 regarding the requirement of Internal Revenue Code
      (    IRC    )
              409A(a)(2)(B)(i)
      that payment of benefits be delayed for six months under specified
      circumstances. 

ARTICLE
      3      

BENEFIT
      ACCRUAL  

In
      this
      Supplemental Plan, the term     Accrued
      Benefit    
means
      the benefit determined pursuant to the application of the provisions of 3.1
      through 3.5. 

3.1       Gross
      Accrued Benefit   .
      Each
      Active Participant shall accrue a gross monthly benefit (subject to reduction
      as
      provided in 3.2 below), stated as a Normal Annuity beginning on his or her
      Normal Retirement Date, equal to the product of (a) multiplied by
      (b): 

(a)      1.85%
      of
      his or her Final Average Monthly Earnings; 

(b)      his
      or
      her years of Continuous Service, subject to a maximum of
      35 years. 

The
      gross
      monthly Accrued Benefit thus determined shall be reduced as provided in 3.2
      to
      determine the net monthly benefit payable under this Supplemental Plan to the
      Participant who retires on or after his or her Normal Retirement
      Date. 

Notwithstanding
      the foregoing, in the case of a Former Active Participant described in 2.4,
      the
      gross monthly Accrued Benefit shall be calculated based on Final Average Monthly
      Earnings and Continuous Service as of the date such Participant ceased to be
      an
      Active Participant. 

The
      gross
      monthly Accrued Benefit determined above shall be subject to recalculation
      in
      the event the Participant's Final Average Earnings are recalculated as described
      in 3.3. 

3.2       Offsets
      to the Accrued Benefit   .
      The
      gross Accrued Benefit determined in 3.1 shall be reduced by the sum of (a)
      plus
      (b): 

(a)      The
      Participant's "Accrued Benefit" under the Matthews International Corporation
      Employees Retirement Plan ("   Employees
      Retirement Plan   ")
      payable in the Normal Annuity form (under Section 7.5 of the Employees
      Retirement Plan) commencing at his or her actual Early or Normal Retirement
      Date
      under this Supplemental Plan (or, if applicable, commencing as soon after the
      Participant's Early Retirement Date under this Supplemental Plan as such benefit
      can commence under the early retirement rules of the Employees Retirement Plan).
      If a portion of a Participant's Continuous Service under 3.5 relates to service
      with a wholly-owned subsidiary when such subsidiary did not participate as
      an
      employer in the Employees Retirement Plan, the Participant's Employees
      Retirement Plan "Accrued Benefit" shall nevertheless be calculated, solely
      for
      purposes of this 3.2(a), as if such service with the subsidiary were counted
      as
      Continuous Service for calculating benefits under the Employees Retirement
      Plan.
      (That is, the offset amount under this 3.2(a) will include an imputed Employees
      Retirement Plan benefit attributable to such service with the wholly-owned
      subsidiary.) 

(b)      The
      maximum anticipated Social Security Primary Insurance Amount that would be
      payable to the Participant beginning the month after his or her actual
      65th birthday on the assumption that his or her earnings for FICA purposes
      had always been in excess of the FICA wage base in any particular year up to
      and
      including the year in which his or her actual 65th birthday occurs.
      However, where a Participant's benefits commence under this Supplemental Plan
      at
      an Early Retirement Date, it will be assumed, in calculating such Social
      Security Primary Insurance Amount, that the Participant has no FICA wages after
      such Early Retirement Date. 

3.3      "   Final
      Average Monthly Earnings   "
      means
      an amount equal to the average of the Participant's monthly "Earnings" for
      the
      highest 60 consecutive months during the 120 consecutive months
      immediately preceding the earliest to occur of the events described in 2.3
      or
      the Participant's Normal Retirement Date. However, if a Participant's Earnings
      are recalculated under 3.4 to reflect a reduction in deferred Management
      Incentive Plan credits actually paid to such Participant, his or her
   Final
      Average Monthly Earnings   
      shall be
      recalculated at the same time. Nevertheless, no such recalculation shall be
      performed in any case following the occurrence of a Section 9
      Event. 

3.4      "   Earnings   ":
      Except
      as provided in the second and third sentences of this 3.4,    Earnings   
      means
      regular basic salary and incentive compensation at the time it is earned and
      paid in the ordinary course, or, if payment of any earned amount is deferred,
      at
      the time such salary or incentive compensation would have been paid in the
      ordinary course had payment of such amount not been deferred. As such, Earnings
      includes the principal amount of any deferred credits assigned to the
      Participant under the Company's Management Incentive Program as of the date
      on
      which such principal amount of deferred credits is assigned. However, if the
      said principal amount assigned to the Participant is reduced pursuant to the
      provisions for negative adjustments under the Management Incentive Program,
      then
      the Participant's Earnings shall be reduced, for purposes of this Supplemental
      Plan, to reflect the reduction of said principal amount of such deferred credits
      as of the date on which the reduction under the Management Incentive Plan is
      made. "Earnings" shall     not    
      include
      severance payments or allowances, profit-sharing distributions, expense
      allowances, directors' fees, stock-related rights (both stock options and stock
      appreciation rights) or any other form of additional compensation. 

3.5      "   Continuous
      Service   "
      means

(a)      For
      purposes of calculating the Accrued Benefit pursuant to 3.1(b), the sum (in
      full
      years and months, with partial months rounded up) of all periods of an
      Employee's service with the Company from his or her employment date (including
      periods during which an Employee is receiving LTD Benefits) to the earliest
      to
      occur of the events described in 2.3 or his or her Normal Retirement Date.
      However, upon the occurrence of a Section 9 Event, each Active Participant
      (including each Officer who becomes an Active Participant, pursuant to 2.2(b)
      upon occurrence of such Section 9 Event) shall be credited with additional
      service equal to the lesser of (i) five years, or (ii) the period of
      years between the Section 9 Event and such Active Participant's Normal
      Retirement Date. An Employee's service with a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
      Company shall be counted as Continuous Service for purposes of the Plan
      effective with the later of (a) the Employee's employment date, or (b) the
      date
      the Company acquired 100% ownership of such subsidiary. (Nevertheless, not
      more
      than 35 years of Continuous Service shall be counted under 3.1
      (b).) 

(b)      Solely
      for purposes of determining the Participant's vested percentage under 2.5(a),
      an
      Employee's service with the Company (as otherwise described in 3.5(a)) after
      his
      or her Normal Retirement Date shall be counted in the computation of his or
      her
      completed years of Continuous Service. 

3.6       Application
      of Vested Percentage   .
      If
      applicable, a Participant s Vested Accrued Benefit shall be determined pursuant
      to 2.5, and the Accrued Benefit determined pursuant to 3.1 and 3.2 shall be
      reduced to the Vested Accrued Benefit as 2.5 may provide. 

ARTICLE
      4      

AMOUNT
      AND PAYMENT OF BENEFITS  

4.1       Amount
      of Normal Retirement Benefit   . 

(a)      The
         Normal
      Retirement Benefit   
      payable
      to a Retired Participant whose monthly benefits commence on his or her Normal
      Retirement Date shall initially be the monthly amount equal to such
      Participant's Accrued Benefit as initially determined under 3.1 less the
      reductions determined under 3.2, and multiplied by the Participant's vested
      percentage under 3.6. 

(b)      Notwithstanding
      4.1(a), should a Retired Participant's Vested Accrued Normal Retirement Benefit
      be recalculated pursuant to 3.1, and the result of such recalculation is a
      reduction of more than $100 in the monthly benefit, the Vested Accrued Normal
      Retirement Benefit payable to the Retired Participant shall be accordingly
      reduced prospectively. 

(c)      A
      Participant's Accrued Normal Retirement Benefit shall not increase by reason
      of
      additional Continuous Service or Earnings after his or her Normal Retirement
      Date. (See 3.5(b), however, regarding post-Normal Retirement Date Continuous
      Service being counted for purposes of determining a Participant's vested
      percentage in his or her Accrued Normal Retirement Benefit.) 

4.2       Amount
      of Deferred Retirement Benefit   .
      The
   Deferred
      Retirement Benefit   
      payable
      to a Retired Participant who retires any time after his or her Normal Retirement
      Date shall be equal to the monthly amount of such Participant's Accrued Normal
      Retirement Benefit determined pursuant to 4.1 at his or her Normal Retirement
      Date, but multiplied by his or her vested percentage at his or her Deferred
      Retirement Date. Deferred Retirement Benefits shall not be actuarially increased
      to account for the fact that the Participant continued in active service beyond
      his or her Normal Retirement Date and did not retire until a later
      date. 

4.3       Amount
      of Early Retirement Benefit   . 

(a)      The
         Early
      Retirement Benefit   
      payable
      to a Retired Participant who is entitled to receive benefits commencing at
      an
      Early Retirement Date shall be the monthly amount equal to: his or her Accrued
      Benefit determined under 3.1 less the reductions determined under 3.2, the
      result multiplied by the appropriate percentage in accordance with the following
      schedule: 

Straight-line
      interpolation of these percentages will be employed for fractional years. In
      the
      case of an Active Participant who, pursuant to 2.6, is presumed to be five
      years
      older than his or her actual age for purposes of eligibility to commence receipt
      of benefits, the foregoing schedule shall be applied based on such Participant's
      attributed age. (Thus, for example, an Active Participant who, pursuant to
      2.6,
      becomes eligible to receive benefits commencing on the first day of the month
      following his or her actual 57th birthday, would be presumed to have
      attained age 62, and to have commenced benefits, three whole years prior to
      his or her Normal Retirement Date, with an applicable    Early
      Retirement Factor   
      of
      91%.). 

(b)      In
      addition to the Early Retirement Benefit paid to a Retired Participant under
      4.3(a), such Retired Participant (other than one who retired from the status
      of
      Former Active Participant) shall also receive, until (but including) the month
      in which his or her actual 65th birthday occurs (or earlier death), a
      Social Security Supplement equal to the maximum anticipated Social Security
      Primary Insurance Amount that would be payable to the Participant beginning
      the
      month following the month of his or her actual 65th birthday, as the same
      is calculated pursuant to 3.2. Thus, for example, an Active Participant who
      retired immediately following his or her 55   th   
      birthday
      would receive an Early Retirement Benefit of 70% of the amount calculated
      pursuant to 3.1 and 3.2, plus a Social Security Supplement equal to 100% of
      the
      reduction for the maximum anticipated Social Security Primary Insurance Amount
      calculated pursuant to 3.2. 

(c)      Where,
      pursuant to 2.6, an Active Participant's benefits commence under this
      Supplemental Plan at an Early Retirement Date but prior to the Participant's
      actual attainment of age 55, so that the Participant is not then eligible
      to commence to receive an immediate early retirement pension under
      Section 4.3 or 4.4 of the Employees Retirement Plan, then, in addition to
      the Early Retirement Benefit under 4.3(a) and the Social Security Supplement
      under 4.3(b), the Participant shall also receive an Early Retirement Supplement
      equal to the early retirement benefit that would have been payable to such
      Participant under the Employees Retirement Plan (based on the Participant s
      accrued benefit under the Employees Retirement Plan as of the actual date of
      termination of employment) if the Participant had attained the actual age of
      55.
      Such Early Retirement Supplement shall be payable until the earliest month
      for
      which the corresponding early retirement benefit is actually payable under
      the
      Employees Retirement Plan (or would be payable upon timely application
      therefor). Thus, for example, a Participant, entitled under 2.6, who commenced
      to receive an Early Retirement Benefit under this Plan commencing immediately
      following his or her 50   th   
      birthday
      (but assumed age 55) would initially receive: (i) an Early Retirement
      Benefit of 70% of the amount calculated pursuant to 3.1 and 3.2 (including,
      in
      the 3.2 reduction, the amount of the Employees Retirement Plan early retirement
      benefit), plus (ii) a Social Security Supplement equal to 100% of the
      reduction for the maximum anticipated Social Security Primary Insurance Amount
      calculated pursuant to 3.2, plus (iii) an Early Retirement Supplement equal
      to 100% of the early retirement benefit that would be payable, commencing at
      the
      Participant's actual age 55, under the Employees Retirement
      Plan. 

4.4       Election
      of Form of Payment.   
      In
      advance of initially satisfying the requirements of 2.1 or 2.2 to become an
      Active Participant in this Supplemental Plan, an Officer may, but is not
      required to, irrevocably elect the form of payment that will apply to him or
      her
      at Retirement. 

(a)     

      (i)      A
      Participant who is married at the time he or she makes an election of the form
      of payment, may elect the Normal Annuity Form, provided that his or her Spouse,
      at the time such election is made, shall have filed with the Compensation
      Committee, accompanying the Participant's election, the Spouse's irrevocable
      written consent to such election, which irrevocable written consent such Spouse
      shall have acknowledged under oath before a notary public or other person
      officially empowered to administer oaths and attest to the same. 

(ii)      If
      such
      Participant has so elected the Normal Annuity Form, and at his or her Retirement
      Date is married to the Spouse who so consented to such Participant's election
      of
      the Normal Annuity Form, then benefits will be paid to such Participant in
      the
      Normal Annuity form. Benefits will also be paid to such Participant in the
      Normal Annuity form if such Participant is unmarried on his or her Retirement
      Date. If, on his or her Retirement Date, such Participant is married to a Spouse
      other than the individual who consented to the election of the Normal Annuity
      form, then benefits will be paid to such Participant in the Joint and 50%
      Surviving Spouse Annuity Form. 

(b)      If
      a
      Participant has elected the Joint and 66-2/3 Surviving Spouse Annuity Form,
      such
      Participant will receive benefits in the Joint and 66-2/3 Surviving Spouse
      Annuity Form if married at the Retirement Date. If such Participant is unmarried
      on his or her retirement Date, benefits will be paid in the Normal Annuity
      Form. 

(c)      Any
      Participant's election or consent of the Participant's Spouse to an election
      made hereunder shall be made on such forms or otherwise as the Compensation
      Committee shall prescribe. 

(d)      Pursuant
      to IRS Notice 2005-1, Q A 19(c) and the Preamble to Proposed Treasury
      Regulation   1.409A-1 et seq., XI.C. (70 Fed. Reg. 57957, col. 3), an
      individual who is an Active or Former Active Participant as of September 13,
      2006, may irrevocably elect, on a form prescribed by and filed with the
      Compensation Committee,   another
      form of payment with respect to his or her retirement benefit under the Plan,
      irrespective of whether or not the Participant shall have earlier filed,
      pursuant to 4.4(a) or (b), such an election prior to the effective date of
      his
      participation in the Plan. However, to make an election pursuant to this 4.4(d),
      the Participant must file the election form with the Committee no later than
      December 31, 2006. 

(e)      An
      Officer who does not make an election, pursuant to 4.4 (a), (b) or (d), of
      the
      form of payment, shall receive benefits under the Normal Annuity Form or the
      Joint and 50% Surviving Spouse Annuity Form, whichever applies under 4.5 or
      4.6
      at his or her Retirement Date. 

(f)      For
      purposes of the Plan, the term "Spouse" means the individual to whom a
      Participant is lawfully married at the time such Participant elects the form
      of
      payment pursuant to 4.4(a), (b) or (d), or the individual to whom such
      Participant is lawfully married at his or her Retirement Date, whichever the
      context so requires. Thus, for example, where a Participant who is married
      on
      his or her Retirement Date receives benefits in the Joint and 50% Surviving
      Spouse Annuity Form, and the Participant later dies while either unmarried
      or
      married to an individual who was not his or her Spouse on the Participant's
      Retirement Date, but is survived by the individual who was his or her Spouse
      on
      the Participant's Retirement Date, then the 50% Surviving Spouse Annuity would
      be payable to such individual (who was his or her Spouse on the Participant's
      Retirement Date) after the death of such Participant (whether or not the
      Participant and such individual were still married at the time of the
      Participant's death). 

4.5       Normal
      Annuity Form   .
      If a
      Participant is unmarried on his or her Retirement Date, such Retired
      Participant's Vested Accrued Benefit shall be paid on the Normal Annuity Form
      (irrespective of any prior election by the Participant). The Normal Annuity
      Form
      shall be a life annuity which provides for monthly payments to the Participant
      beginning on his or her Normal, Early or Deferred Retirement Date or, as
      provided in 4.11, beginning six months after such Retirement Date, and
      continuing to the first day of the month in which his or her death occurs.
      The
      monthly payments to the Retired Participant shall be level in amount except
      for
      (i) any months for which the additional temporary Social Security
      Supplement under 4.3(b) is payable to the Participant, (ii) any month for
      which the additional temporary Early Retirement Supplement under 4.3(c) is
      payable to the Participant, (iii) any month in which an Excise Tax Gross-Up
      payment is made under 4.10, (iv) prospective reduction in the level monthly
      payment pursuant to 4.1(b), or (v) if 4.11 applies to delay commencement of
      payment for six months, the first month's payment pursuant to the provisions
      of
      4.11(a). 

4.6       Actuarial
      Equivalent.   
      Where,
      pursuant to 4.7 or 4.8, benefits are paid in the Joint and 50% Surviving Spouse
      Annuity Form or the Joint and 66-2/3% Surviving Spouse Annuity Form, the amount
      of benefits payable under either such Form shall be the Actuarial Equivalent
      of
      the Normal Annuity Form. For purposes of this Supplemental Plan, Actuarial
      Equivalent means an annuity benefit of equal value to another benefit on the
      basis of eight percent (8%) interest per annum and mortality under the 1984
      Unisex Pension Mortality Table. 

4.7       Joint
      and 50% Surviving Spouse Annuity Form.   
      If a
      Participant is married on his or her Retirement Date, and shall not have elected
      a different form of payment pursuant to 4.4, such Retired Participant's Vested
      Accrued Benefit shall be paid on the   Joint
      and
      50% Surviving Spouse Annuity Form  ,
      which
      shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the Normal Form. Such form provides for
      monthly payments to the Participant beginning on his or her Normal, Early or
      Deferred Retirement Date or, as provided in 4.11, beginning six months after
      such Retirement Date and continuing to the first day of the month in which
      occurs the death of the survivor of the Participant and his or her Spouse.
      The
      monthly payments shall be payable during the lifetime of the Participant and
      upon his or her death, 50% of such monthly payment shall be payable to his
      Spouse, if then living (the     Surviving
      Spouse    ),
      for
      the Spouse's lifetime. The monthly payments to the Retired Participant and/or
      Surviving Spouse shall be level in amount except for (i) any months for
      which the additional temporary Social Security Supplement under 4.3(b) is
      payable to the Participant, (ii) any month for which the additional
      temporary Early Retirement Supplement under 4.3(c) is payable to the Participant
      or Surviving Spouse, (iii) any month in which an Excise Tax Gross-Up
      payment is made under 4.10, (iv) prospective reduction in the level monthly
      payment pursuant to 4.1(b), or (v) if 4.11 applies to delay commencement of
      payment for six months, the first month's payment pursuant to the provisions
      of
      4.11(a). 

4.8       Joint
      and 66-2/3% Surviving Spouse Annuity Form.   
      If a
      Participant is married on his or her Retirement Date, and shall have so elected
      pursuant to 4.4, such Retired Participant's Vested Accrued Benefit shall be
      paid
      on the Joint and 66-2/3% Surviving Spouse Annuity Form, which shall be the
      Actuarial Equivalent of the Normal Form. Such form provides for monthly payments
      to the Participant beginning on his or her Normal, Early or Deferred Retirement
      Date or, as provided in 4.11, beginning six months after such Retirement Date
      and continuing to the first day of the month in which occurs the death of the
      survivor of the Participant and his or her Spouse. The monthly payments shall
      be
      payable during the lifetime of the Participant and upon his or her death,
      66-2/3% of such monthly payment shall be payable to his Spouse, if then living,
      for the Spouse's lifetime. The monthly payments to the Retired Participant
      and/or Spouse shall be level in amount except for (i) any months for which
      the additional temporary Social Security Supplement under 4.3(b) is payable
      to
      the Participant, (ii) any month for which the additional temporary Early
      Retirement Supplement under 4.3(c) is payable to the Participant, (iii) any
      month in which an Excise Tax Gross-Up payment is made under 4.10,
      (iv) prospective reduction in the level monthly payment pursuant to 4.1(b),
      or (v) if 4.11 applies to delay commencement of payment for six months, the
      first month's payment pursuant to the provisions of 4.11(a). 

4.9       Termination
      of Benefits for Competition or Detrimental Conduct   .
      Notwithstanding 4.4 or otherwise, except as provided below in this 4.9, a
      Retired Participant's benefit payments hereunder shall permanently cease and
      be
      forfeited if the Compensation Committee determines: 

(a)      that
      such
      Retired Participant: 

1.
      has
      entered into competition with the Company or any of its subsidiaries, including,
      without limiting the generality of the foregoing, acts of direct competition,
      soliciting customers or employees, or working as an employee, agent or
      consultant for a competitor or customer; or 

2.
      has
      engaged in other conduct detrimental to the Company, including, but not limited
      to, disclosing the Company's specific operating practices, product formulas,
      customer information, pricing formulas and/or technical know-how developed
      by
      the Company; 

and 

(b)      that
      such
      competition or other detrimental conduct occurred within five years after the
      Retired Participant's Retirement Date. 

(c)      However,
      the foregoing provisions shall not apply in the case of any Participant whose
      employment terminates, whether voluntarily, involuntary, or by mutual agreement,
      at any time following the occurrence of a Section 9 Event. 

4.10       Excise
      Tax Gross-Up   .
      In the
      event that any payment made to a Participant by or for the Company under this
      Supplemental Plan, or under any other plan or compensation program maintained
      by
      the Company (including, for example but without limitation, the Management
      Incentive Program, the 1992 Stock Incentive Plan, or any successor plan or
      program), is subject to the excise tax imposed by IRC   4999 (the
      "   Excise
      Tax   ")
      (any
      such payment, or part thereof, subject to Excise Tax being a "   Parachute
      Payment   "),
      then
      the Company or the Trust shall pay such Participant an additional amount (the
      "Gross-Up") to compensate the Participant for the economic cost of (i) the
      Excise Tax on the Parachute Payment, (ii) the U.S., state and local income
      tax (as applicable) on the Gross-Up, and (iii) the Excise Tax on the
      Gross-Up. The calculation shall insure that the Participant, after receipt
      of
      the Parachute Payment and the Gross-Up and the payment of taxes thereon, will
      be
      in approximately the same economic position after all taxes as if the Parachute
      Payment had been subject only to income tax at the marginal rate. For purposes
      of determining the amount of the Gross-Up, the Participant shall be deemed
      to
      pay U.S., state and local income taxes at the highest marginal rate of taxation
      in the calendar year in which the Parachute Payment is to be made. State and
      local taxes shall be determined based upon the state and locality of the
      Participant's domicile on the date of the Participant's termination of service
      with the Company. The determination of whether such Excise Tax is payable and
      the amount thereof shall be based upon the opinion of tax counsel selected
      by
      the Company and acceptable to the Participant. If such opinion is not accepted
      by the Internal Revenue Service upon audit, then appropriate adjustments shall
      be computed (without interest but with Gross-Up, if applicable) by such tax
      counsel based on the final amount of the Excise Tax so determined. 

4.11       Six
      Month Delay in Commencement of Payment of Benefits.  

(a)      Except
      as
      provided in 4.11(c) or (d), the Plan may in no event commence payment of
      benefits to, or with respect to, a Participant earlier than the first day of
      seventh (7th) calendar month following the date on which the Participant's
      termination of employment occurs (such first day of the seventh month being
      the
      "   Delayed
      Payment Date   ").
      If,
      under the circumstances of a Participant's termination employment, the
      Participant's benefits would otherwise have commenced prior to the Delayed
      Payment Date, the first payment of benefits made by the Plan shall include
      all
      payments that would, but for this 4.11, otherwise already have been made prior
      to the Delayed Payment Date. For example, a Participant retires effective June
      30, having attained age 65 on June 18. Her Normal Retirement Date is July 1,
      when monthly benefit payments would normally commence. However, under this
      4.11,
      her Delayed Payment Date is the following January 1. The monthly payment made
      on
      January 1 would equal the sum of seven monthly payments (the January payment
      and
      the delayed payments from July through December, inclusive). 

(b)      If
      a
      Participant to whom 4.11(a) applies dies after his or her Retirement Date but
      before the Delayed Payment Date, any payments that, but for 4.11(a), would
      have
      been made to the Participant prior to his or her death, shall be disposed of
      as
      follows: 

(i)      If
      the
      Participant's benefits were to be paid in either of the Joint and Surviving
      Spouse Annuity Forms, the delayed payments due the Participant, as well as
      any
      delayed payments due to the surviving Spouse, will be paid to the Surviving
      Spouse as part of the first monthly benefit payment made to the Spouse in the
      month of the Delayed Payment Date. 

(ii)      If
      the
      Participant's benefits were to be paid in the Normal Annuity Form, the payments
      due the Participant will be paid to the personal representative of the
      Participant's estate. 

(c)      Notwithstanding
      4.11(a), payment of benefits shall not be delayed for six months where the
      Participant's termination of employment was by reason of his or her
      death. 

(d)      Also
      notwithstanding 4.11(a), payment of benefits shall not be delayed if, at the
      time of termination of employment, the Participant is not classified as a
      "specified employee" within the meaning IRC   409A(2)(B)(i) and the
      regulations issued thereunder.   1  

ARTICLE
      5      

PRERETIREMENT
      SURVIVING SPOUSE BENEFITS  

5.1     

      (a)      If
      an
      Active Participant or Former Active Participant shall terminate employment
      because of death after he or she shall have attained at least ten (10) Years
      of
      Continuous Service, or any other Participant who, pursuant to 2.5 2.6 or 2.7,
      has terminated employment but is entitled to receive a Vested Accrued Benefit
      under the Plan, shall die prior to the date on which such benefits would have
      commenced; and, in any case, such Participant is survived by a Spouse (also
      a
    Surviving
      Spouse    ),
      then
      such Surviving Spouse shall be entitled to receive a Surviving Spouse Benefit.
      Such Surviving Spouse Benefit shall commence to be paid beginning on the
      earliest Retirement Date (i.e., an Early, Normal, or Deferred, Retirement Date,
      as the case may be) on which the Participant's benefits would have commenced
      had
      the Participant terminated employment on the date of his or her death survived
      until such Retirement Date, provided the Surviving Spouse is living on such
      Retirement Date. 

(b)      The
      following examples illustrate the application of 5.1(a): 

(i)      An
      Active
      Participant dies at age 57 with 15 years of Continuous Service, and leaves
      a
      Surviving Spouse. A Surviving Spouse Benefit shall be paid to such Surviving
      Spouse beginning on the first day of the month following the Participant's
      death
      (such date, had the Participant terminated employment on the date of his or
      her
      death, being the Participant's Early Retirement Date). 

(ii)      An
      Active
      Participant dies at age 52 with 15 years of Continuous Service, and leaves
      a
      Surviving Spouse. A Surviving Spouse Benefit shall be paid to such Surviving
      Spouse beginning on the first day of the month following the date the
      Participant would have attained age 55 had he or she survived to that date
      (such
      date being the Participant's Early Retirement Date), provided that such
      Surviving Spouse is alive on such benefit commencement date. 

(iii)      An
      Active
      Participant dies at age 57 with 10 years of Continuous Service, and leaves
      a
      Surviving Spouse. A Surviving Spouse Benefit shall be paid to such Surviving
      Spouse beginning on the Participant's Normal Retirement Date, provided that
      such
      Surviving Spouse is alive on such benefit commencement date. Having died prior
      to his or her Normal Retirement Date with less than 15 years of Continuous
      Service, the Participant would not have been eligible to have benefits commence
      at an Early Retirement Date. Likewise, the Surviving Spouse Benefit would be
      calculated based the on Participant's 50% Vested Accrued Benefit because the
      Participant was not 100% vested at the time of his or her death. 

(iv)      An
      Active
      Participant dies on his or her 65th birthday with six (6) years of Continuous
      Service and leaves a Surviving Spouse. Inasmuch as the Participant had less
      than
      ten (10) years of Continuous Service at the time of his death and, therefore,
      had no Vested Accrued Benefit, no Surviving Spouse Benefit is payable to the
      Surviving Spouse. 

5.2      If
      the
      Participant described in 5.1(a) had elected, pursuant to 4.4, the Joint and
      66-2/3% Surviving Spouse Annuity Form, then the Plan shall pay the 66-2/3%
      Surviving Spouse Annuity to the Participant's Surviving Spouse. 

5.3      In
      any
      other such case, the Plan shall pay the 50% Surviving Spouse Annuity to the
      Participant's Surviving Spouse. 

ARTICLE
      6      

ADMINISTRATION  

FINANCING
      OF BENEFITS  

6.1     

      (a)      This
      Supplemental Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee, which
      shall have responsibility and authority to manage and control the operation
      and
      administration of the Plan. The Committee shall have complete and absolute
      discretion to interpret and apply the terms and provisions of the
      Plan. 

(b)      The
      Company intends this Supplemental Plan to be an unfunded, nonqualified plan
      primarily for the purpose of providing benefits for a select group of highly
      compensated management employees of the Company, and is intended to qualify
      as a
 top hat  plan under Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
      ( ERISA ),     201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1). As such, the Plan is not
      required to, and is not intended to be subject to, or be interpreted and
      administered according to, inter alia, the provisions of ERISA, Title I, Parts
      2, 3 and 4, nor the rules applicable to tax-qualified retirement plans set
      forth
      at IRC          401
      et
      seq. 

(c)      The
      following procedures shall govern the administration of claims under the
      Plan. 

(i)      The
      Compensation Committee shall determine the rights of any Participant to any
      benefits hereunder. Any Participant who believes that he or she has not received
      the benefits to which he is entitled under the Plan may file a claim in writing
      with the Committee. The Committee shall, no later than 90 days after the receipt
      of a claim (plus an additional period of 90 days if required for processing,
      provided that notice of the extension of time is given to the claimant within
      the first 90-day period), either allow or deny the claim in writing. If a
      claimant does not receive written notice of the Committee s decision on his
      claim within the above-mentioned period, the claim shall be deemed to have
      been
      denied in full. 

(ii)      A
      denial
      of a claim by the Committee, wholly or partially, shall be written in a manner
      calculated to be understood by the claimant and shall include: 

(A)    
             
                the
                specific reasons for the denial;    

(B)    
             
                specific
                reference to pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is
                based; 

(C)    
             
                a
                description of any additional material or information necessary for
                the
                claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material
                or
                information is necessary; and 

(D)    
             
                an
                explanation of the claim review procedure and the time limits applicable
                to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant's right
                to bring
                a civil action under ERISA
  502(a). 

(iii)      A
      claimant whose claim is denied (or his duly authorized representative) may
      within 60 days after receipt of denial of a claim file with the Committee a
      written request for a review of such claim.    Prior
      to the occurrence of a Section 9 Event   ,
      if the
      claimant does not file a request for review of his claim within such 60-day
      period, the claimant shall be deemed to have acquiesced in the original decision
      of the Committee on his claim, the decision shall become final and the claimant
      will not be entitled to bring a civil action under ERISA    502(a),
      provided that    after
      the occurrence of a Section 9 Event   ,
      the
      claimant shall not be deemed to have acquiesced in the original decision of
      the
      Committee, nor shall the claimant be in any way limited in bringing a civil
      action under ERISA   502(a). 

(iv)      If
      such
      an appeal is so filed within such 60-day period, the Committee (or its delegate)
      shall conduct a full and fair review of such claim. During such review, the
      claimant (or the claimant's authorized representative) shall be given the
      opportunity to review all documents that are pertinent to his claim and to
      submit issues and comments in writing. 

(v)      The
      Committee (or its delegate) shall mail or deliver to the claimant a written
      decision on the matter based on the facts and the pertinent provisions of the
      Plan within 60 days after the receipt of the request for review (unless special
      circumstances require an extension of up to 60 additional days, in which case
      written notice of such extension shall be given to the claimant prior to the
      commencement of such extension). Such decision shall be written in a manner
      calculated to be understood by the claimant, shall state the specific reasons
      for the decision and the specific Plan provisions on which the decision was
      based and shall, to the extent permitted by law, be final and binding on all
      interested persons. If the decision on review is not furnished to the claimant
      within the above-mentioned time period, the claim shall be deemed to have been
      denied on review. 

(vi)        If
      a
      Participant's claim for benefits is denied in whole or in part    prior
      to the occurrence of a Section 9 Event   ,
      such
      Participant may file suit only in a state court located in Allegheny County,
      Pennsylvania or federal court located in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania.
      Notwithstanding, before such Participant may file suit in a state or federal
      court, Participant must exhaust the Plan's administrative claims procedure.
      If
      any such judicial or administrative proceeding is undertaken, the evidence
      presented will be strictly limited to the evidence timely presented
      to    
      the Committee. In addition, any such judicial or administrative proceeding
      must
      be filed within six months after the Committee's final
      decision.   

(vii)      If
      the
      claim for benefits of a Vested Participant(6.4(a)) is denied in whole or in
      part
   after
      the occurrence of a Section 9 Event   ,
      such
      Participant shall not be in any way restricted by the provisions of 6.1(c)(vi)
      in taking any steps to enforce his or her rights under the Plan. Further, the
      Company shall be liable to reimburse any Vested Participant (6.4(a)) for
      attorneys fees and other costs related to any litigation (or other proceeding),
      or counsel and advice short of or preparatory to litigation (or other
      proceeding), which the Vested Participant undertakes to enforce his or her
      right
      to receive benefits under the Plan following a refusal (in any form) by the
      Company to pay such benefits. 

6.2      The
      Company shall bear the entire cost of benefits under this Supplemental Plan
      as
      well as the entire cost of administering the Plan. 

6.3      This
      Supplemental Plan will not be funded. The benefits under this Plan shall be
      paid
      from the general assets of the Company as due. Nevertheless, in the event the
      Company creates an executive benefit security trust, "rabbi" trust, or similar
      entity through which to set aside assets to provide for the payment of benefits
      under this Supplemental Plan (or other benefits), whether pursuant to 6.4 or
      otherwise, each monthly benefit payment made to a Retired Participant or
      Surviving Spouse from such trust with respect to any benefit payable to such
      Participant or Surviving Spouse under this Plan, shall reduce and discharge,
      dollar for dollar, the Company's obligation hereunder to make such monthly
      benefit payment to such Participant or Surviving Spouse. Similarly, any Gross-Up
      payment made to a Retired Participant or Surviving Spouse from such trust shall
      reduce and discharge, dollar for dollar, the Company's obligation hereunder
      to
      make such Gross-Up payment. 

6.4     

      (a)      Notwithstanding
      6.3 but subject to the restriction in 6.4(b), prior to or immediately upon
      the
      occurrence of a Section 9 Event, the Company shall take the following
      measures: The Company shall establish a trust of the kind and nature
      contemplated under 6.3 (the "   Trust   ").
      The
      trust agreement establishing such Trust shall provide that, prior to the payment
      of all benefit liabilities under this Supplemental Plan, the Trust shall be
      irrevocable except upon the bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company. Such trust
      agreement shall also provide that initial trustee of the Trust, and any
      successor trustee, shall at the time of appointment be one of the
      50 largest banking institutions in the United States. The Company shall
      transfer to the Trust liquid assets equal to the present value of all benefits
      accrued under the Plan to the end of the calendar month in which the
      Section 9 Event occurred or is expected to occur (whether or not such
      benefits are otherwise then subject to future forfeiture under the terms of
      the
      Plan), with respect to all persons who are or were, on the date of the
      Section 9 Event, Active Participants (including those who will become or
      became Active Participants on the date of the Section 9 Event pursuant to
      2.2(b), Former Active Participants, Retired Participants; and Surviving Spouses
      who are receiving Surviving Spouse benefits, plus the additional present value
      of benefits that could accrue to Active Participants, and be payable earlier,
      from the attribution of five additional years of service, described in 3.5,
      and
      five additional years of age, described in 2.6 and 4.3; plus the present value
      of the accrued benefits that would have accrued by any person who, by reason
      of
      then-current disabled status and operation of 2.2(c) could in the future qualify
      as a Participant pursuant to 2.2(c), determined as such person had already
      qualified for such benefit. (Such disabled persons and such persons who are
      or
      were, on the date of the Section 9 Event, Active Participants, Former Active
      Participants, Retired Participants, and Surviving Spouses who are receiving
      Surviving Spouse benefits, are hereinafter referred to collectively as
      "   Vested
      Participants   ").
      The
      present value of the benefits described above shall be calculated by assuming
      that retirement shall occur either immediately or at actual (or attributed)
      age 55 (whichever occurs, or shall have occurred, first), no mortality or
      turnover prior to retirement, post-retirement mortality based on the "applicable
      mortality table" determined under IRC   417(e)(3)(A)(ii)(I), and
      interest at the "applicable interest rate" determined under
      IRC   417(e)(3)(A)(ii)(II) for the month in which the Section 9
      Event occurs. The Company shall also transfer to the Trust liquid assets equal
      to the present value of any Gross-Up payments it reasonably estimates shall
      or
      may become due by reason of the occurrence of the Section 9 Event, as well
      as present value of the estimated costs of administering the Trust (including
      trustee fees and expenses) and of administering the Plan through engagement
      of
      an independent administrator if deemed appropriate by the trustee. The Company
      shall also provide the trustee with accurate and complete data regarding all
      matters necessary to identify Vested Participants, calculate their accrued
      benefits, and pay them, including (without limiting the generality of the
      foregoing) data regarding the name, birthdate, current address, Social Security
      number, employment date with the Company, and compensation in the current and
      prior years of each such Vested Participant, as well as any information
      necessary to enable the trustee to calculate or verify any Gross-Up payments
      that may be due pursuant to 4.10. 

(b)      Notwithstanding
      6.4(a), no amount shall be transferred to a trust or otherwise set aside for
      the
      purposes of providing benefits during any "restricted period" (as defined in
      IRC
  409A(B(3)) with respect to the Employees Retirement Plan or any other
      single-employer defined benefit plan sponsored by the Company or any member
      of a
      controlled group (within the meaning of IRC   414(b) or (c)) that includes
      the Company. 

ARTICLE
      7      

AMENDMENT
      OR TERMINATION OF THE PLAN  

7.1       Amendment
      of the Plan   . 

(a)      The
      Company reserves the right to modify or amend this Supplemental Plan from time
      to time and to any extent that it may deem advisable. Any amendment shall be
      made pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Compensation Committee. No
      amendment shall in any manner (i) reduce the right to the present or future
      receipt of an Accrued Benefit, Vested Accrued Benefit, or other benefit under
      the Plan of any Participant to the extent that such right had accrued prior
      to
      the date the Compensation Committee approved such amendment, (ii) alter the
      amount or payment of benefits under the Plan to any Participant who had become
      a
      Retired Participant prior to the date the Compensation Committee approved such
      amendment, or (iii) otherwise apply to former Officers whose employment
      with the Company had terminated without entitlement to a Plan benefit prior
      to
      the date the Compensation Committee approved such amendment. Otherwise, all
      Participants claiming any interest under this Plan shall be bound by any
      amendments. 

(b)      The
      rights and benefits of each Participant or of any Surviving Spouse claiming
      through such Participant, shall be determined in accordance with the provisions
      of this Supplemental Plan in effect on the date (1) the Participant's employment
      terminates, or (2) in the case of a Participant who is receiving LTD Benefits,
      the Participant ceases to be eligible to continue to receive LTD Benefits,
      whichever of (1) or (2) occurs later (such date being the "   Participant's
      Termination Date   ").
      Except as otherwise specifically provided, any amendment to the Plan shall
      have
      no effect on, or application to, a Participant (or Surviving Spouse) where
      such
      Participant's Termination Date occurred prior to the effective date of such
      amendment (including the 9/13/06 amendment date of this amended and restated
      Supplemental Plan). Thus, any benefit being paid to a Retired Participant or
      Surviving Spouse, and any Vested Accrued Benefit or Surviving Spouse Benefit
      due
      to be paid hereafter, pursuant to the terms of this Supplemental Plan, shall
      continue to be paid, or shall be commenced, in accordance with all applicable
      terms and provisions (including the amount, date of commencement and form of
      payment thereof) of this Supplemental Plan as such plan was in effect on the
      date of the Participant's Termination Date. 

7.2       Termination
      of the Plan   .
      This
      Supplemental Plan may be terminated by the Company at any time. Such termination
      shall be effected pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board of
      Directors. No such termination may impair the benefits of Participants. In
      particular, no such termination shall in any manner (i) reduce the right to
      the present or future receipt of an Accrued Benefit or other benefit under
      the
      Plan of any Participant to the extent that such right had accrued prior to
      the
      date the Board of Directors approved such termination, or (ii) alter the
      amount or payment of benefits under the Plan to any Participant who had become
      a
      Vested Participant or Retired Participant prior to the date the Board of
      Directors approved such termination. Benefits shall cease to accrue under the
      Plan effective on the termination, but the Plan shall otherwise remain in force
      for the purpose of administering the benefits accrued prior to the termination
      according to the provisions of the Plan in force immediately prior to the
      termination. 

      _________________________ 

1   
          In the
          Company's case, it is almost certain that current Active Participants (Officers)
          would be "specified employees" subject to delay in commencement of payment.
          Non-specified employees would likely include only Former Active Participants

</EX-10.4>

<EX-21>
 3
 exhibit21-subsidiaries.htm
 EXHIBIT 21 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

Exhibit 21 List of Subsidiaries

EXHIBIT
      21 

MATTHEWS
      INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

      SUBSIDIARIES
      OF THE REGISTRANT 

      (as
      of
      November 30, 2005) 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 exhibit23consent.htm
 EXHIBIT 23 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Exhibit 23 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

CONSENT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC    

        ACCOUNTING
      FIRM   

We
      hereby
      consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on
      Form
      S-8 (Nos. 33-57793, 33-57795, 33-57797, 333-83731 and 333-131496) of Matthews
      International Corporation of our reports dated December 6, 2006 relating to
      the
      financial statements, financial statement schedule, management s assessment of
      the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the
      effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appear in
      this
      Form 10-K. 

/s/PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP 

Pittsburgh,
      Pennsylvania 

      December
      13, 2006 

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 exhibit31-1jbartolacci.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1 JOSEPH BARTOLACCI PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.1 Joseph Bartolacci Principal Executive Officer Certification

Exhibit
      31.1 

CERTIFICATION 

      PRINCIPAL
      EXECUTIVE OFFICER 

I,
      Joseph
      C. Bartolacci, certify that: 

      1.
      I have
      reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Matthews International
      Corporation; 

      2.
      Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
      in
      light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
      with respect to the period covered by this report; 

      3.
      Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
      condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
      for, the periods presented in this report; 

      4.
      The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
      and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules
      13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
      have: 

      a)
      designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
      material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
      subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
      during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

      b)
      designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
      and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
      with generally accepted accounting principles;  

      c)
      evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
      procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
      of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
      by this report based on such evaluation; and 

      d)
      disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
      quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report)
      that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
      the
      registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

      5.
      The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors
      (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

      a)
      all
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and
      report financial information; and 

      b)
      any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial
      reporting. 

Date:
      December 13, 2006 

/s/Joseph
      C. Bartolacci 

      ------------------------- 

      Joseph
      C.
      Bartolacci 

      President
      and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 exhibit31-2snicola.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2 STEVE NICOLA PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.2 Steve Nicola Principal Executive Officer Certification

Exhibit
      31.2 

CERTIFICATION 

      PRINCIPAL
      FINANCIAL OFFICER 

I,
      Steven
      F. Nicola, certify that: 

      1.
      I have
      reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Matthews International
      Corporation; 

      2.
      Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
      in
      light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
      with respect to the period covered by this report; 

      3.
      Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
      condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
      for, the periods presented in this report; 

      4.
      The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
      and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules
      13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
      have: 

      a)
      designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
      material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
      subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
      during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

      b)
      designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
      and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
      with generally accepted accounting principles;  

      c)
      evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
      procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
      of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
      by this report based on such evaluation; and 

      d)
      disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
      quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report)
      that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
      the
      registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

      5.
      The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors
      (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

      a)
      all
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and
      report financial information; and 

      b)
      any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial
      reporting. 

Date:
      December 13, 2006 

/s/Steven
      F. Nicola 

      ------------------------- 

      Steven
      F.
      Nicola 

      Chief
      Financial Officer, 

      Secretary
      and Treasurer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 exhibit32-1jbartolacci.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1 JOSEPH BARTOLACCI SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.1 Joseph Bartolacci Section 906 Certification

Exhibit
      32.1 

Certification
      Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 

As
      Adopted Pursuant to 

Section
      906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In
      connection with the Annual Report of Matthews International Corporation (the
       Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2006 as filed with
      the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I,
      Joseph C. Bartolacci, President and Chief Executive Officer, certify, to the
      best of my knowledge, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant
      to
      Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 

(1)
      The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2)
      The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
      the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/Joseph
      C. Bartolacci 

      ------------------------------------- 

      Joseph
      C.
      Bartolacci, 

      President
      and Chief Executive Officer 

December
      13, 2006 

A
      signed
      original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
      authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears
      in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required
      by Section 906, has been provided to Matthews International Corporation and
      will
      be retained by Matthews International Corporation and furnished to the
      Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 exhibit32-2snicola.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2 STEVE NICOLA SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.2 Steve Nicola Section 906 Certification

Exhibit
      32.2 

Certification
      Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 

As
      Adopted Pursuant to 

Section
      906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In
      connection with the Annual Report of Matthews International Corporation (the
       Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2005 as filed with
      the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I,
      Steven F. Nicola, Chief Financial Officer, certify, to the best of my knowledge,
      pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 

(1)
      The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2)
      The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
      the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/Steven
      F. Nicola 

      ------------------------------------- 

      Steven
      F.
      Nicola, 

      Chief
      Financial Officer 

December
      13, 2006 

A
      signed
      original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
      authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears
      in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required
      by Section 906, has been provided to Matthews International Corporation and
      will
      be retained by Matthews International Corporation and furnished to the
      Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon
      request. 

</EX-32.2>

