<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061211_10-K_edgar_data_100548_0001362310-06-000397_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>619591</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>200441</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>267271</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>38</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001362310-06-000397.hdr.sgml : 20061211
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061211164338
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001362310-06-000397
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061211
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061211

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			UGI UTILITIES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000100548
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	GAS & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED [4932]
		IRS NUMBER:				231174060
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			PA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-01398
		FILM NUMBER:		061268919

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 KACHEL BOULEVARD SUITE 400
		STREET 2:		GREEN HILLS CORPORATE CENTER
		CITY:			VALLEY FORGE
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			19607
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6107963400

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 858
		CITY:			VALLEY FORGE
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			19482

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	UGI CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920429

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	UNITED GAS IMPROVEMENT CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19680911

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CONSUMERS GAS CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19660830

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 ExIliNifoTThdPXAHTxRLMoex67HIrXrTyI4PLObf4QZlH9ssBtpWzdWUmhAKBcL
 3Swsbo9jTkNgvGZHH6jmCg==

 0001362310-06-000397.txt : 20061211

10-K
 1
 c70103e10vk.htm
 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) 
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2006 

Commission file number 1-1398 

UGI UTILITIES, INC. 

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter) 

Pennsylvania

23-1174060 

(State or Other Jurisdiction of  
Incorporation or Organization) 

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)  

100 Kachel Boulevard, Suite 400, Green Hills Corporate Center 
Reading, PA                      19607 
 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) 

(610) 796-3400 
 (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act.  Yes     No    . 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes     No    . 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
 Yes     No    . 

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this  Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer    

Accelerated filer    

Non-accelerated filer     

Indicate by check mark whether registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).
 Yes     No    . 

At September 30, 2006, there were 26,781,785 shares of UGI Utilities Common Stock, par value $2.25
per share, outstanding, all of which were held, beneficially and of record, by UGI Corporation.

The Registrant meets the conditions set forth in General Instruction I(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K
and is therefore filing this   Form 10-K   with the reduced disclosure format permitted by that General
Instruction. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page  

PART I:   
       
      2   

Items 1. and 2.

Business and Properties

2  

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

9  

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

11  

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

12  

PART II:   
       
      15   

Item 5.

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

15  

Item 7.

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

15  

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

34  

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

34  

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

35  

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

35  

Item 9B.

Other Information

36  

PART III:   
       
      37   

Item 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services

37  

PART IV:   
       
      38   

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

38  

Signatures  
       
     46  

Index to
Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule  
       
      F-2   

Exhibit 12.1    
     Exhibit 23    
     Exhibit 31.1    
     Exhibit 31.2    
     Exhibit 32    

1

Table of Contents   

PART I: 

ITEMS 1. AND 2.  
       
       BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES 

GENERAL 

UGI Utilities, Inc. ( UGI Utilities  or the  Company ) is a public utility company that owns
and operates two natural gas distribution utilities and an electric utility in Pennsylvania. We are
a wholly owned subsidiary of UGI Corporation ( UGI ).

On August 24, 2006, UGI Utilities, through its wholly owned subsidiary, UGI Penn Natural Gas,
Inc. ( UGIPNG ), completed the acquisition of the natural gas utility business of PG Energy ( PG
Energy ), an operating division of Southern Union Company ( SU ), and all of the capital stock of
PG Energy Services, Inc. from SU. PG Energy, now UGIPNG, serves approximately 158,000 customers in
13 counties in northeastern Pennsylvania.

The Gas Utility segment ( Gas Utility ) consists of our regulated natural gas distribution
business ( UGI Gas ) and the regulated natural gas distribution business of our subsidiary, UGIPNG.
Gas Utility serves approximately 473,000 customers in eastern and northeastern Pennsylvania. The
Electric Utility segment ( Electric Utility ) consists of our regulated electric distribution
business that serves approximately 62,000 customers in northeastern Pennsylvania.

UGI Utilities was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1925. We are subject to regulation by the
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission ( PUC ). Our executive offices are located at 100 Kachel
Boulevard, Suite 400, Green Hills Corporate Center, Reading, Pennsylvania 19607, and our telephone
number is (610) 796-3400. In this report, the terms  Company  and  UGI Utilities,  as well as the
terms,  our,   we,  and  its,  are sometimes used to refer to UGI Utilities, Inc. or, collectively
UGI Utilities, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

GAS UTILITY OPERATIONS 

Service Area; Revenue Analysis  

Gas Utility is authorized to distribute natural gas to approximately 473,000 customers in
portions of 27 eastern and northeastern Pennsylvania counties through its distribution system of
approximately 7,700 miles of gas mains. The service area includes the cities of Allentown,
Bethlehem, Easton, Harrisburg, Hazleton, Lancaster, Lebanon, Reading, Scranton, Wilkes-Barre and
Williamsport, Pennsylvania, and the boroughs of Honesdale and Milford, Pennsylvania. Located in Gas
Utility s service area are major production centers for basic industries such as specialty metals,
aluminum, glass and paper product manufacturing.

-2-

Table of Contents   

System throughput (the total volume of gas sold to or transported for customers within Gas
Utility s distribution systems) for the 2006 fiscal year was approximately 82.7 billion cubic feet
( bcf ). System sales of gas accounted for approximately 40% of system throughput, while gas
transported for residential, commercial and industrial customers (who bought their gas from others)
accounted for approximately 60% of system throughput. Gas Utility s system throughput only reflects
UGIPNG s throughput for the period since the PG Energy acquisition on August 24, 2006 through
September 30, 2006.

Sources of Supply and Pipeline Capacity  

Gas Utility meets its service requirements by utilizing a diverse mix of natural gas purchase
contracts with marketers and producers, along with storage and transportation service contracts.
These arrangements enable Gas Utility to purchase gas from Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent, Appalachian
and Canadian sources. For the transportation and storage function, Gas Utility has agreements with
a number of pipeline companies, including Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation, Columbia Gas
Transmission Corporation, Transcontinental Gas Pipeline Corporation and Tennessee Gas Pipeline.

Gas Supply Contracts  

During fiscal year 2006, UGI Gas purchased approximately 44 bcf of natural gas for sale to
retail core market and off-system sales customers. Approximately 76% of the volumes purchased were
supplied under agreements with 10 suppliers. The remaining 24% of gas purchased by UGI Gas was
supplied by approximately 20 producers and marketers. Gas supply contracts for UGI Gas and UGIPNG
are generally no longer than 1 year.

Seasonality  

Because many of its customers use gas for heating purposes, Gas Utility sales are seasonal.
Approximately 55% to 60% of Gas Utility s throughput occurs, and approximately 85% to 90% of Gas
Utility s operating income is earned, during the five-month peak heating season from November
through March.

Competition  

Natural gas is a fuel that competes with electricity and oil, and to a lesser extent, with
propane and coal. Competition among these fuels is primarily a function of their comparative price
and the relative cost and efficiency of fuel utilization equipment. Electric utilities in Gas
Utility s service area are seeking new load, primarily in the new construction market. Fuel oil
dealers compete for customers in all categories, including industrial customers. Gas Utility
responds to this competition with marketing efforts designed to retain and grow its customer base.

In substantially all of their service territories, UGI Gas and UGIPNG are the only regulated
gas distribution utilities having the right, granted by the PUC or by law, to provide gas
distribution services. Since the 1980s, larger commercial and industrial customers have been able
to purchase gas supplies from entities other than natural gas distribution utility companies. As a
result of Pennsylvania s Natural Gas Choice and Competition Act ( Gas Competition Act ), effective
July 1, 1999 all of Gas Utility s customers, including residential and smaller commercial and
industrial customers ( Core Market Customers ), have been afforded this opportunity. As of
September 30, 2006, one marketer provides gas supplies to approximately 4,200 of Gas Utility s Core
Market Customers. Gas Utility provides transportation services for its customers who purchase
natural gas from others.

-3-

Table of Contents   

A number of Gas Utility s commercial and industrial customers have the ability to switch to an
alternate fuel at any time and, therefore, are served on an interruptible basis under rates which
are competitively priced with respect to the alternate fuel. Margin from these customers,
therefore, is affected by the difference or  spread  between the customers  delivered cost of gas
and the customers  delivered cost of the alternate fuel, as well as the frequency and duration of
interruptions. See  Gas Utility and Electric Utility Regulation and Rates   Gas Utility Rates. 
In accordance with the PUC s June 29, 2000 Gas Restructuring Order applicable to UGI Gas, margin
from certain of these customers (who use pipeline capacity contracted by UGI Gas to serve retail
customers) is used to reduce purchased gas cost rates for retail customers. Approximately 28% of
UGI Gas  commercial and industrial customers, including certain customers served under
interruptible rates, have locations which afford them the opportunity, although none have exercised
it, of seeking transportation service directly from interstate
pipelines, thereby bypassing UGI Gas. The majority of customers in this group are served under transportation contracts having 3
to 20 year terms. Included in these two customer groups are UGI Gas  10 largest customers in
terms of annual volumes. All of these customers have contracts, 7 of which extend beyond Fiscal
2007. No single customer represents, or is anticipated to represent, more than 5% of Gas Utility s
total revenues.

Outlook for Gas Service and Supply  

Gas Utility anticipates having adequate pipeline capacity and sources of available supply of
natural gas to it to meet the full requirements of all firm customers on its system through fiscal
year 2007. Supply mix is diversified, market priced, and delivered pursuant to a number of
long-term and short-term firm transportation and storage arrangements, including transportation
contracts held by some of Gas Utility s larger customers.

During fiscal year 2006, Gas Utility supplied transportation service to 2 major co-generation
installations and 5 electric generation facilities. Gas Utility continues to pursue opportunities
to supply natural gas to electric generation projects located in its service area. Gas Utility also
continues to seek new residential, commercial and industrial customers for both firm and
interruptible service. In the residential market sector, UGI Gas connected approximately 9,900
residential heating customers during fiscal year 2006. Of those new customers, new home
construction accounted for over 7,300 heating customers. Customers converting from other energy
sources, primarily oil and electricity, and existing non-heating gas customers who have added gas
heating systems to replace other energy sources, accounted for the balance of the additions. The
number of new commercial and industrial UGI Gas customers was approximately 1,400. UGIPNG s
customer growth since the PG Energy acquisition on August 24, 2006 through September 30, 2006 was
not significant.

-4-

Table of Contents   

UGI Utilities continues to monitor and participate, where appropriate, in rulemaking and
individual rate and tariff proceedings before FERC affecting the rates and the terms and conditions
under which Gas Utility transports and stores natural gas. Among these proceedings are those
arising out of certain FERC orders and/or pipeline filings which relate to (i) the pricing of
pipeline services in a competitive energy marketplace; (ii) the flexibility of the terms and
conditions of pipeline service tariffs and contracts; and (iii) pipelines  requests to increase
their base rates, or change the terms and conditions of their storage and transportation services.

UGI Utilities  objective in negotiations with interstate pipeline and natural gas suppliers,
and in proceedings before regulatory agencies, is to assure availability of supply, transportation
and storage alternatives to serve market requirements at the lowest cost possible, taking into
account the need for security of supply. Consistent with that objective, UGI Utilities negotiates
the terms of firm transportation capacity on all pipelines serving it, arranges for appropriate
storage and peak-shaving resources, negotiates with producers for competitively priced gas
purchases and aggressively participates in regulatory proceedings related to transportation rights
and costs of service.

ELECTRIC UTILITY 

Service Area; Sales Analysis  

Electric Utility supplies electric service to approximately 62,000 customers in portions of
Luzerne and Wyoming counties in northeastern Pennsylvania through a system consisting of
approximately 2,150 miles of transmission and distribution lines and 13 transmission substations.
For fiscal year 2006, about 53% of sales volume came from residential customers, 35% from
commercial customers and 12% from industrial customers. There was no electricity transported for
customers who purchased their power from other suppliers during fiscal year 2006.

Sources of Supply  

Electric Utility has third-party generation supply contracts in place for substantially all of
its expected energy requirements for fiscal years 2007, 2008 and 2009. Electric Utility distributes
electricity that it purchases from others and electricity that customers purchase from other
suppliers, if any. As of September 30, 2006, none of Electric Utility s customers have selected an
alternative electricity generation supplier. Electric Utility expects to continue to provide energy
to the great majority of its distribution customers for the foreseeable future. See  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Market Risk
Disclosures  for a discussion of risks related to Electric Utility s supply contracts.

Competition  

As a result of the Electricity Generation Customer Choice and Competition Act ( ECC Act ), all
Pennsylvania retail electric customers have the ability to choose their electric generation
supplier. Electric Utility remains the provider of last resort ( POLR ) for its customers who do
not choose an alternate electric generation supplier. The terms and conditions under which Electric
Utility provides POLR service, and rules governing the rates that may be charged for such service,
have been established in a series of PUC-approved settlements (collectively, the  POLR
Settlement ). Consistent with the terms of the POLR Settlement, Electric Utility s POLR rates were
increased in January 2006 and Electric Utility is permitted, but not required, to further increase
its POLR rates in January 2007, 2008 and 2009. Electric Utility is the only regulated electric
utility having the right, granted by the PUC or by law, to distribute electricity in its service
territory. Sales of electricity for residential heating purposes accounted for approximately 19% of
total sales of electricity during fiscal year 2006. Electricity competes with natural gas, oil,
propane and other heating fuels for this use. For current POLR rates see  Gas Utility and Electric
Utility Regulation and Rates   Electric Utility Rates. 

-5-

Table of Contents   

GAS UTILITY AND ELECTRIC UTILITY REGULATION AND RATES 

Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission Jurisdiction  

UGI Utilities  gas and electric utility operations are subject to regulation by the PUC as to
rates, terms and conditions of service, accounting matters, issuance of securities, contracts and
other arrangements with affiliated entities, and various other matters.

Electric Transmission and Wholesale Power Sale Rates  

FERC has jurisdiction over the rates and terms and conditions of service of electric
transmission facilities used for wholesale or retail choice transactions. Electric Utility owns
electric transmission facilities that are within the control area of the PJM Interconnection, LLC
( PJM ) and are dispatched in accordance with a FERC-approved open access tariff and associated
agreements administered by PJM. Electric Utility receives certain revenues collected by PJM when
its transmission facilities are used by third parties.

FERC has jurisdiction over the rates and terms and conditions of service of wholesale sales of
electric capacity and energy. Electric Utility has a tariff on file with FERC pursuant to which it
may make power sales to wholesale customers at market-based rates.

Gas Utility Rates  

The most recent general base rate increase for UGI Gas became effective in 1995. In
accordance with a statutory mechanism, a rate increase for firm- residential, commercial and
industrial customers ( retail core-market ) became effective October 1, 2000 along with Purchased
Gas Cost ( PGC ) variable credit equal to a portion of the margin received from customers served
under interruptible rates to the extent such interruptible customers use capacity contracted for by
UGI Gas for retail core-market customers.

In an order entered on November 30, 2006, the PUC approved a settlement of the base rate
proceeding of UGIPNG. The settlement provides for an increase in natural gas distribution base
rates of approximately 4.0% or $12.5 million annually, effective December 2, 2006. In addition,
the settlement provides UGIPNG the ability to recover up to $1.0 million of additional corporate
franchise tax through the state tax adjustment surcharge mechanism.

Gas Utility s gas service tariffs contain PGC rates applicable to certain firm retail rate
schedules. These PGC rates permit recovery of substantially all of the prudently incurred costs of
natural gas that Gas Utility sells to its customers. PGC rates are reviewed and approved
annually by the PUC. UGI Utilities and UGIPNG may request quarterly, or, under certain conditions
monthly, adjustments to reflect the actual cost of gas. Quarterly adjustments become effective on
1 day s notice to the PUC and are subject to review during the next annual PGC filing. Each
proposed annual PGC rate is required to be filed with the PUC 6 months prior to its effective date.
During this period, the PUC holds hearings to determine whether the proposed rate reflects a
least-cost fuel procurement policy consistent with the obligation to provide safe, adequate and
reliable service. After completion of these hearings, the PUC issues an order permitting the
collection of gas costs at levels which meet that standard. The PGC mechanism also provides for an
annual reconciliation.

-6-

Table of Contents   

UGI Gas has two PGC rates .  PGC (1) is applicable to small, firm, retail core-market customers
consisting of the residential and small commercial and industrial classes; PGC (2) is applicable to
firm, contractual, high-load factor customers served on three separate rates. In addition,
residential customers maintaining a high load factor may qualify for the PGC (2) rate. As described
above, UGI Gas  PGC rates are adjusted to reflect margins, if any, from interruptible rate
customers who do not obtain their own pipeline capacity. UGIPNG has one PGC rate applicable to all
customers.

Electric Utility Rates  

The most recent general base rate increase for Electric Utility became effective in 1996.
Consistent with the terms of the POLR Settlement, Electric Utility increased its POLR rates for all
metered customers by a total of 4.5% effective January 2005, and an additional 3% effective January
2006, above the total rates in effect on December 31, 2004. Pursuant to the POLR Settlement,
Electric Utility is permitted, but not required, to further increase its POLR rates in January
2007, 2008 and 2009. Electric Utility has announced it will increase electric generation rates
effective January 1, 2007 and that this increase will affect all metered customers. This increase
is expected to raise the average cost to residential customers by approximately 35% over costs in
effect during calendar year 2006. Pursuant to the requirements of the ECC Act, the PUC is currently
developing POLR regulations that are expected to further define POLR service obligations and
pricing. As of September 30, 2006, none of Electric Utility s customers have selected an
alternative electricity generation supplier.

FERC Market Manipulation Rules and Other FERC Enforcement and Regulatory Powers  

Both Gas Utility and Electric Utility are subject to FERC regulations governing the manner in
which certain jurisdictional sales or transportation are conducted. Section 4A of the Natural Gas
Act and Section 222 of the Federal Power Act prohibit the use or employment of any manipulative or
deceptive devices or contrivances in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas, electric
energy, or natural gas transportation or electric transmission services subject to the jurisdiction
of FERC. FERC has adopted regulations to implement these statutory provisions which apply to
interstate transportation and sales by the Electric Utility, and to a much more limited extent, to
certain sales and transportation by the Gas Utility that are subject to FERC s jurisdiction. Gas
Utility and Electric Utility are subject to certain other regulations and obligations for
FERC-regulated activities. FERC has substantial authority to impose civil
penalties for the violation of any regulations, orders or provisions under the Federal Power
Act and Natural Gas Act.

-7-

Table of Contents   

In addition, Section 203 of the Federal Power Act expressly requires utility holding companies
like UGI to obtain prior FERC approval for certain utility or holding company mergers or
acquisitions of electric utilities or electric transmitting utility property valued at $10 million
or more.

State Tax Surcharge Clauses  

UGI Utilities  gas and electric service tariffs contain state tax surcharge clauses. The
surcharges are recomputed whenever any of the tax rates included in their calculation are changed.
These clauses protect UGI Utilities from the effects of increases in most of the Pennsylvania taxes
to which it is subject.

Utility Franchises  

UGI Utilities and UGIPNG hold certificates of public convenience issued by the PUC and certain
 grandfather rights  predating the adoption of the Pennsylvania Public Utility Code and its
predecessor statutes, which each of them believes are adequate to authorize them to carry on their
business in substantially all of the territories to which they now render gas or electric service.
Under applicable Pennsylvania law, UGI Utilities and UGIPNG also have certain rights of eminent
domain as well as the right to maintain their facilities in streets and highways in their
territories.

Other Government Regulation  

In addition to regulation by the PUC and FERC, the gas and electric utility operations of UGI
Utilities are subject to various federal, state and local laws governing environmental matters,
occupational health and safety, pipeline safety and other matters. UGI Utilities is subject to the
requirements of the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, CERCLA and comparable state
statutes with respect to the release of hazardous substances on property owned or operated by UGI
Utilities. See ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   Environmental Matters-Manufactured Gas Plants. 

Employees  

As of September 30, 2006, UGI Utilities had 1,433 employees, of which 1,336 employees are
dedicated to Gas Utility and 97 to Electric Utility. Union employees represent approximately 40%
of the total employees.

-8-

Table of Contents   

BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION 

The table stating the amounts of revenues, operating income and identifiable assets
attributable to UGI Utilities  operating segments for the 2006, 2005 and 2004 fiscal years appears
in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report and is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 1A.  
       
       RISK FACTORS 

Decreases in the demand for natural gas and electricity because of warmer-than-normal heating
season weather could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows
because our rate structure does not contain weather normalization provisions.  

Because many of our customers rely on natural gas or electricity to heat their homes, our
results of operations are adversely affected by warmer-than-normal heating season weather. Weather
conditions have a significant impact on the demand for natural gas and electricity for heating
purposes. Accordingly, demand for natural gas and electricity is generally at its highest during
the five-month peak heating season of November through March and is directly affected by the
severity of the winter weather. Our rate structure does not contain weather normalization
provisions to compensate for warmer-than-normal weather conditions, and we have historically sold
less natural gas and electricity when weather conditions are milder and, consequently, earned less
income. As a result, warmer-than-normal heating season weather could reduce our net income and harm
our financial condition and adversely affect our cash flows.

Increases in natural gas and electricity market prices could adversely affect our business.  

Prices for natural gas are subject to volatile fluctuations in response to changes in supply
and other market conditions. During periods of high natural gas costs, our prices generally
increase. High prices can lead to customer conservation, resulting in reduced demand for our
product.

Beginning in January 2007, Electric Utility rates will increase. This increase may reduce the
demand for our electricity due to customer conservation. A reduction in demand could lower our
revenues, and, therefore, lower our net income and adversely affect our cash flows.

Electricity supplier defaults may adversely affect our results of operations.  

Generally, we purchase our power needs from electricity suppliers under fixed-price energy and
capacity contracts. Should any of the suppliers under these contracts fail to provide electric
power under the terms of these contracts, any increases in the cost of replacement power or
capacity could negatively impact our results and adversely affect our cash flows because of our
inability to recover these potential cost increases in our current rates.

-9-

Table of Contents   

Changes in commodity market prices may have a negative effect on our liquidity.  

Depending on the terms of our contracts with suppliers, a change in the market price of
electricity or natural gas could create a margin payment obligation by the Company and expose us to
an increased liquidity risk.

Our need to comply with comprehensive, complex, and sometimes unpredictable government
regulations may increase our costs and limit our revenue growth, which may result in reduced
earnings.  

There are many governmental regulations that have an impact on our business. Existing
statutes and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be
adopted or become applicable to us which may affect our business in ways that we cannot predict.

In our Gas Utility and Electric Utility segments, our operations are subject to regulation by
the PUC. The PUC, among other things, approves the rates that UGI Utilities and UGIPNG may charge
to its utility customers, thus impacting the returns that UGI Utilities and UGIPNG may earn on the
assets that are dedicated to those operations. If UGI Utilities or UGIPNG are required in a rate
proceeding to reduce the rates they charge their utility customers, or if UGI Utilities or UGIPNG
are unable to obtain approval for rate increases from the PUC, particularly when necessary to cover
increased costs, UGI Utilities  and UGIPNG s revenue growth will be limited and their earnings may
decrease.

We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance.  

Our business operations are subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally
incidental to the handling, storage and distribution of combustible products, such as natural gas.
These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe
damage to and destruction of property and equipment. As a result, we are sometimes a defendant in
legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We believe that we are
adequately insured for claims in excess of our self-insurance; however, certain types of damages,
such as punitive damages and penalties, if any, may not be covered by insurance. There can be no
assurance that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to
pending and future claims or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at
economical prices.

-10-

Table of Contents   

Remediation costs resulting from liability from contamination claims could reduce our net
income.  

We are investigating and remediating contamination at a number of present and former operating
sites in the United States, including former sites where we operated manufactured gas plants. We
have also received claims from third parties that allege that we are responsible for costs to clean
up properties where we or our former subsidiaries operated a manufactured gas plant. Costs we incur
to remediate sites outside of Pennsylvania cannot be recovered in future utility rate proceedings,
and insurance may not cover all or even part of these costs. Our actual
costs to clean up these sites may exceed our current estimates due to factors beyond our
control, such as:

the discovery of presently unknown conditions;

changes in environmental laws and regulations;

judicial rejection of our legal defenses to the third-party claims; or

the insolvency of other responsible parties at the sites at which we are involved.

In addition, if we discover additional contaminated sites, we could be required to incur
material costs, which would reduce our net income.

If we fail to successfully manage the acquisition of PG Energy, our financial results may be
adversely affected.  

On August 24, 2006, we completed the acquisition of the natural gas utility business of PG
Energy from Southern Union Company. We own and operate that business through our subsidiary
UGIPNG. The acquisition of PG Energy significantly increased the size of our natural gas utility
business. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including but not limited to, the assumption of
material liabilities, the diversion of management s attention from the management of daily
operations to the integration of operations, difficulties in the assimilation and retention of
employees and difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices. Management may
be distracted from day to day business operations in their efforts to successfully manage the PG
Energy business. If we fail to successfully manage this recent acquisition, our business financial
condition and results of operation could be adversely affected.

Unforeseen difficulties with the implementation or operation of our information systems could
adversely affect our internal controls and our business.  

We contracted with third-party consultants to assist us with the design and implementation of
an information system that supports our human resources, accounting, purchasing and payroll
systems. The efficient execution of our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our
internal systems. Any significant failure or malfunction of our information system may result in
disruptions of our operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we
encounter unforeseen problems with respect to the operation of this system.

ITEM 1B.  
       
       UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None.

-11-

Table of Contents   

ITEM 3.  
       
       LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

With the exception of the matters set forth below, no material legal proceedings are pending
involving UGI Utilities, or any of its properties, and no such proceedings are known to be
contemplated by governmental authorities other than claims arising in the ordinary course of the
Company s business.

Environmental Matters   Manufactured Gas Plants 

From the late 1800s through the mid-1900s, UGI Utilities and its former subsidiaries owned and
operated a number of manufactured gas plants ( MGPs ) prior to the general availability of natural
gas. Some constituents of coal tars and other residues of the manufactured gas process are today
considered hazardous substances under the Superfund Law and may be present on the sites of former
MGPs. Between 1882 and 1953, UGI Utilities owned the stock of subsidiary gas companies in
Pennsylvania and elsewhere and also operated the businesses of some gas companies under agreement.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, UGI Utilities
divested all of its utility operations other than those which now constitute UGI Gas and Electric
Utility by the early 1950s.

UGI Utilities does not expect its costs for investigation and remediation of hazardous
substances at Pennsylvania MGP sites to be material to its results of operations because UGI
Utilities (excluding UGIPNG) is currently permitted to include in rates, through future base rate
proceedings, prudently incurred remediation costs associated with such sites.

As a result of the acquisition of PG Energy by UGI Utilities  wholly owned subsidiary, UGIPNG,
UGIPNG became party to a Multi-site Remediation Consent Order and Agreement between PG Energy and
the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection dated March 31, 2004 ( Multi-Site
Agreement ). The Multi-Site Agreement requires UGIPNG to perform annually a specified level of
activities associated with environmental investigation and remediation work at 11 currently owned
properties on which MGP-related facilities were operated ( Properties ). Under the Multi-Site
Agreement, environmental expenditures, including costs to perform work on the Properties, are
capped at $1.1 million in any calendar year. Costs related to investigation and remediation of one
property formerly owned by UGIPNG are also included in this cap. The Multi-Site Agreement
terminates at the end of 15 years but may be terminated by either party at the end of any two-year
period beginning with the effective date. In accordance with existing regulatory practices of the
PUC, UGIPNG currently amortizes as removal cost over a five-year period site-specific environmental
investigation and remediation costs.

UGI Utilities has been notified of several sites outside Pennsylvania on which private parties
allege MGPs were formerly owned or operated by UGI Utilities or owned or operated by its former
subsidiaries. Such parties are investigating the extent of environmental contamination or
performing environmental remediation. UGI Utilities is currently litigating four claims against it
relating to out-of-state sites.

-12-

Table of Contents   

City of Bangor, Maine v. Citizens Communications Co . In April 2003, Citizens
Communications Company ( Citizens ) served a complaint naming UGI Utilities as a third-party
defendant in a civil action pending in the United States District Court for the District of Maine.
In that action, the plaintiff, City of Bangor, Maine ( City ), sued Citizens to recover
environmental response costs associated with MGP wastes generated at a plant allegedly operated by
Citizens  predecessors at a site on the Penobscot River. Citizens subsequently joined UGI Utilities
and ten other third-party defendants alleging that the third-party defendants are responsible for
an equitable share of costs Citizens may be required to pay to the City for cleaning up tar
deposits in the Penobscot River. Citizens alleges that UGI Utilities and its predecessors owned and
operated the plant from 1901 to 1928. Studies conducted by the City and Citizens suggest that it
could cost up to $18 million to clean up the river. Citizens  third-party claims have been stayed
pending a resolution of the City s suit against Citizens, which was tried in September 2005.
Maine s Department of Environmental Protection ( DEP ) informed UGI Utilities in March of 2005 that
it considers UGI Utilities to be a potentially responsible party for costs incurred by the State of
Maine related to gas plant contaminants at this site. On June 27, 2006, the court issued an order
finding Citizens responsible for 60% of the cleanup costs. The amount of Citizens  liability has
not been finally determined. The court has stayed further proceedings while Citizens and the City
discuss settlement. UGI Utilities believes that it has good defenses to Citizens  claim and to any
claim that the DEP may bring to recover its costs.

Consolidated Edison Company of New York v. UGI Utilities, Inc.  On September 20, 2001,
Consolidated Edison Company of New York ( ConEd ) filed suit against UGI Utilities in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York, seeking contribution from UGI
Utilities for an allocated share of response costs associated with investigating and assessing gas
plant related contamination at former MGP sites in Westchester County, New York. The complaint
alleges that UGI Utilities  owned and operated  the MGPs prior to 1904. The complaint also seeks a
declaration that UGI Utilities is responsible for an allocated percentage of future investigative
and remedial costs at the sites. ConEd believes that the cost of remediation for all of the sites
could exceed $70 million.

The trial court granted UGI Utilities  motion for summary judgment and dismissed ConEd s
complaint. The grant of summary judgment was entered April 1, 2004. ConEd appealed and on
September 9, 2005 a panel of the Second Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed in
part the decision of the trial court. The appellate panel affirmed the trial court s decision
dismissing claims that UGI Utilities was liable under CERCLA as an operator of MGPs owned and
operated by its former subsidiaries. The appellate panel reversed the trial court s decision that
UGI Utilities was released from liability at three sites where UGI Utilities operated MGPs under
lease. On October 7, 2005, UGI Utilities filed for reconsideration of the panel s order, which was
denied by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals on January 17, 2006. On April 14, 2006, UGI
Utilities filed a petition requesting that the United States Supreme Court review the decision of
the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. On October 2, 2006, the United States Supreme Court entered
an order inviting the Solicitor General to file a brief expressing the views of the United States
in this case.

Atlanta Gas Light Company v. UGI Utilities, Inc.  By letter dated July 29, 2003,
Atlanta Gas Light Company ( AGL ) served UGI Utilities with a complaint filed in the United States
District Court for the Middle District of Florida in which AGL alleges that UGI Utilities is
responsible for
20% of approximately $8 million incurred by AGL in the investigation and remediation of a former
MGP site in St. Augustine, Florida. UGI Utilities formerly owned stock of the St. Augustine Gas
Company, the owner and operator of the MGP. On March 22, 2005, the trial court granted UGI
Utilities  motion for summary judgment. AGL appealed, and on September 6, 2006, the Eleventh
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court s entry of summary judgment, effectively
terminating the case.

-13-

Table of Contents   

Savannah, Georgia Matter.  AGL previously informed UGI Utilities that it was
investigating contamination that appeared to be related to MGP operations at a site owned by AGL in
Savannah, Georgia. A former subsidiary of UGI Utilities operated the MGP in the early 1900s. AGL
informed UGI Utilities that it has begun remediation of MGP wastes at the site and believes that
the total cost of remediation could be as high as $55 million. AGL has not filed suit against UGI
Utilities for a share of these costs. UGI Utilities believes that it will have good defenses to any
action that may arise out of this site.

Sag Harbor, New York Matter . By letter dated June 24, 2004, KeySpan Energy ( KeySpan )
informed UGI Utilities that KeySpan has spent $2.3 million and expects to spend another $11 million
to clean up an MGP site it owns in Sag Harbor, New York. KeySpan believes that UGI Utilities is
responsible for approximately 50% of these costs as a result of UGI Utilities  alleged direct
ownership and operation of the plant from 1885 to 1902. By letter dated June 6, 2006, KeySpan
reported that the New York Department of Environmental Conservation has approved a remedy for the
site that is estimated to cost approximately $10 million. KeySpan believes that the cost could be
as high as $20 million. UGI Utilities is in the process of reviewing the information provided by
KeySpan and is investigating this claim.

Yankee Gas Services Company and Connecticut Light and Power Company v. UGI Utilities,
Inc.  On September 11, 2006, UGI Utilities received a complaint filed by Yankee Gas Services
Company and Connecticut Light and Power Company, subsidiaries of Northeast Utilities, (together the
 Northeast Companies ) in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut seeking
contribution from UGI Utilities for past and future remediation costs related to MGP operations on
thirteen sites owned by the Northeast Companies in nine cities in the State of Connecticut. The
Northeast Companies allege that UGI Utilities controlled operations of the plants from 1883 to
1941. The Northeast Companies estimate that remediation costs for all of the sites would total
approximately $215 million and assert that UGI Utilities is responsible for approximately $103
million of this amount. Based on information supplied by the Northeast Companies and UGI Utilities 
own investigation, UGI Utilities believes that it may have operated one of the sites, Waterbury
North, under lease for a portion of its operating history. UGI Utilities is reviewing the Northeast
Companies  estimate that remediation costs at Waterbury North could total $23 million. UGI
Utilities believes that it has good defenses to the claim.

South Carolina Electric   Gas Company v. UGI Utilities, Inc.  On September 22, 2006,
South Carolina Electric   Gas Company ( SCE G ), a subsidiary of SCANA Corporation, filed a lawsuit
against UGI Utilities in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina
seeking contribution from UGI Utilities for past and future remediation costs related to the
operations of a former MGP located in Charleston, South Carolina. SCE G asserts that the plant
operated from 1855 to 1954 and alleges that UGI Utilities controlled operations of the plant from
1910 to 1926 and is liable for 47% of the costs associated with the site. SCE G asserts that
it has spent approximately $22 million in remediation costs and $26 million in third-party claims
relating to the site and estimates that future remediation costs could be as high as $2.5 million.
SCE G further asserts that it has received a demand from the United States Justice Department for
natural resource damages. UGI Utilities believes that it has good defenses to the claim.

-14-

Table of Contents   

PART II: 

ITEM 5.  
       
       MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

Market Information 

All of the outstanding shares of the Company s Common Stock are owned by UGI and are not
publicly traded.

Dividends 

Cash dividends declared on the Company s Common Stock totaled $37.6 million in fiscal year
2006, $38.5 million in fiscal year 2005 and $45.0 million in fiscal year 2004.

ITEM 7.  
       
       MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Business Overview  

UGI Utilities, a wholly owned subsidiary of UGI Corporation, owns and operates two natural gas
distribution utilities located in parts of eastern and northeastern Pennsylvania, and an
electricity distribution utility in northeastern Pennsylvania. UGI Utilities is regulated by the
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission ( PUC ). UGI Gas  rate of customer growth exceeds the
national averages for local gas distribution companies ( LDCs ), and its proximity to major
population centers and its extensive transportation infrastructure makes its service area a desired
location for homes and businesses. Because many customers use natural gas and electricity for
heating purposes, Gas Utility s and to a lesser extent Electric Utility s results are seasonal with
the peak-heating season comprising the months of November through March.

On August 24, 2006, UGI Utilities, through its subsidiary, UGIPNG, acquired certain assets and
assumed certain liabilities of Southern Union Company s ( SU s ) PG Energy Division, a natural gas
LDC located in northeastern Pennsylvania ( PG Energy Acquisition ). The PG Energy LDC serves
approximately 158,000 customers. The results of the acquired LDC are included in our consolidated
results beginning August 24, 2006. We expect to obtain operating and financial synergies as we
integrate the acquired businesses with our existing operations over time.

In conducting its business operations, the Company s management focuses its attention on those
factors it believes have a significant effect on the successful operation of its businesses. These
factors include, among others, regulation by the PUC, pursuing customer growth in its service
territories and controlling operating costs in order to maintain competitive prices. Year-to-year
weather variations can have a significant impact on the Company s results. To a lesser extent,
customer behavior in response to increases and volatility in energy costs can also affect the
Company s results. Gas Utility s tariffs contain purchased gas cost rates that permit recovery of
substantially all of the prudently incurred costs of natural gas it sells to its customers. These
tariffs provide for annual increases or decreases in rates that Gas Utility charges for natural gas
sold by it to reflect projected costs of purchased gas. These rates may be adjusted quarterly or,
under certain conditions monthly, to reflect the actual cost of gas. Because of this ratemaking
process, there is limited commodity price risk associated with Gas Utility operations. Electric
Utility is subject to commodity price risk for electricity as its rates for electric generation
under Provider of Last Resort ( POLR ) settlements contain rate caps which provide limited
protection against electricity price increases. Management attempts to reduce natural gas product
cost volatility through the use of call options, natural gas futures contracts, fixed-price forward
contracts and storage services. Management attempts to reduce electric price volatility by entering
into price swap agreements and fixed-price forward contracts. Because a number of Gas Utility s
customers have the ability to switch to an alternate fuel at any time and are therefore served on
an interruptible basis, profitability for these customers is affected by the difference between the
delivered cost of gas and the delivered cost of the alternate fuel in addition to the frequency and duration of service
interruptions.

-15-

Table of Contents   

The following Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations ( MD A ) compares the results of the Company s operations covering the three-year period
ended September 30, 2006. The MD A should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial
Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements including the business segment
information in Note 11. The operations of UGIPNG are referred to as PNG Gas and the operations of
PNG Gas and UGI Gas are collectively referred to as  Gas Utility. 

Fiscal 2006 Compared with Fiscal 2005  

bcf   billions of cubic feet. gwh   millions of kilowatt hours.

(a) Gas Utility s total margin represents total revenues less cost of sales. Electric Utility s
total margin represents total revenues less total cost of sales and revenue-related taxes, i.e.
Electric Utility gross receipts taxes of $5.3 million in Fiscal 2006 and $5.2 million in Fiscal
2005. For financial statement purposes, revenue-related taxes are included in  Taxes other than
income taxes  on the Consolidated Statements of Income.

(b) Deviation from average heating degree days based upon weather statistics provided by the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ( NOAA ) for four airports located within UGI Gas 
service territory. Fiscal 2005 degree day statistics have been restated to reflect the
current-year, four-location average from the previous single location statistic. PNG Gas  degree
days for the period from August 24, 2006 through September 30, 2006 were not material and have been
excluded.

Gas Utility . Temperatures in Gas Utility s service territory based upon heating degree days
were 8.7% warmer than normal in Fiscal 2006 compared with temperatures that were 2.0% warmer than
normal in Fiscal 2005. Total distribution system throughput declined 2.1 bcf in Fiscal 2006 despite
2.7 bcf of throughput contributed by PNG Gas  operations during the period from August 24, 2006
through September 30, 2006. Notwithstanding year-over-year growth in the number of UGI Gas  firm-
residential, commercial and industrial ( retail core-market ) customers, its Fiscal 2006 throughput
was approximately 6% lower than in Fiscal 2005 primarily due to a reduction in retail core-market
customer usage largely resulting from warmer weather and customer conservation in response to the
pass through of higher natural gas costs.

-16-

Table of Contents   

The increase in Gas Utility revenues during Fiscal 2006 is principally the result of an $86.6
million increase in UGI Gas  retail core-market revenues reflecting higher average
purchased gas cost ( PGC ) rates, $43.0 million of higher revenues from UGI Gas  low-margin
off-system sales and, to a much lesser extent, revenues from PNG Gas subsequent to the PG Energy
Acquisition. Increases or decreases in retail core-market customer revenues and cost of sales
results principally from changes in retail core-market volumes and the level of gas costs collected
through the PGC recovery mechanism. Under the PGC recovery mechanism, Gas Utility records the cost
of gas associated with sales to retail core-market customers at amounts included in PGC rates. The
difference between actual gas costs and the amount included in rates is deferred on the balance
sheet as a regulatory asset or liability and represents amounts to be collected from or refunded to
customers in a future period. As a result of the pass through nature of the PGC recovery mechanism,
increases or decreases in the gas costs associated with retail core-market customers have no direct
effect on retail core-market margin. Gas Utility s cost of gas was $522.9 million in Fiscal 2006
compared to $390.1 million in Fiscal 2005 largely reflecting the effects of the higher PGC rates,
the higher low-margin off-system sales and, to a much lesser extent, cost of gas associated with
PNG Gas  operations subsequent to the PG Energy Acquisition.

The $6.2 million increase in Gas Utility total margin in Fiscal 2006 principally reflects
greater margin generated from higher average interruptible delivery service unit margins and margin
from PNG Gas partially offset by lower retail core-market margin. The increase in average
interruptible delivery service unit margins reflects an increase in the spread between delivered
prices for natural gas and alternative fuels, principally oil. The lower gross margin from retail
core-market customers largely reflects the previously mentioned lower average usage per customer.

Gas Utility operating income increased $2.6 million in Fiscal 2006 as the $6.2 million
increase in total margin was partially offset by a $2.6 million increase in depreciation and
amortization expense, including depreciation expense associated with PNG Gas, and slightly higher
operating and administrative expenses. Fiscal 2006 operating and administrative expenses were
slightly higher than in Fiscal 2005 reflecting operating and administrative expenses from PNG Gas
and higher uncollectible accounts and customer assistance expense, partially offset by lower
distribution system expenses resulting in large part from the mild heating-season weather and lower
stock-based compensation expense.

The decrease in Gas Utility income before income taxes in Fiscal 2006 reflects the increase in
operating income which was more than offset by higher interest expense. The higher interest
expense resulted from higher average short-term debt outstanding, higher short-term interest rates
and interest on long-term debt associated with the PG Energy Acquisition.

Electric Utility.  Electric Utility s Fiscal 2006 kilowatt-hour sales decreased 1.6%
principally reflecting the effects of warmer heating-season weather. Electric Utility revenues
increased 2.0% principally reflecting the effects of a 3.0% increase in its Provider of Last Resort
( POLR ) electric generation rates effective January 1, 2006 partially offset by the lower
kilowatt-hour sales. Electric Utility s cost of sales increased to $51.0 million in Fiscal 2006
from $47.8 million in Fiscal 2005 as a result of higher per-unit purchased power costs partially
offset by the lower kilowatt-hour sales. Electric Utility total margin in Fiscal 2006 decreased
$1.4

-17-

Table of Contents   

million principally as a result of the lower kilowatt-hour sales and the increase in per-unit
purchased power costs. In accordance with the terms of its POLR settlement which became
effective in June 2006, Electric Utility expects to increase its POLR rates effective January
1, 2007 which will affect all metered customers. This increase is expected to raise the average
cost to residential customers by approximately 35% over the costs in effect during calendar year
2006.

Electric Utility operating income decreased $0.9 million reflecting the decrease in total
margin and slightly higher depreciation and amortization expense slightly offset by lower operating
and administrative expenses. The decrease in Electric Utility income before income taxes in Fiscal
2006 reflects the decrease in operating income and higher interest expense resulting from higher
average short-term debt outstanding and higher short-term interest rates.

Fiscal 2005 Compared with Fiscal 2004  

bcf   billions of cubic feet. gwh   millions of kilowatt hours.

(a) Electric Utility s total margin represents total revenues less total cost of sales and
revenue-related taxes, i.e. Electric Utility gross receipts taxes of $5.2 million in Fiscal 2005
and $4.8 million in Fiscal 2004.

Gas Utility . Weather in Gas Utility s service territory based upon heating degree days was
2.0% warmer than normal in Fiscal 2005 compared with weather that was 2.9% warmer than normal in
Fiscal 2004. Total distribution system throughput increased in Fiscal 2005 due primarily to greater
interruptible delivery service volumes. Notwithstanding the volume effects of the slightly colder
weather and an increase in the number of retail core-market customers, Fiscal 2005 retail
core-market throughput was substantially equal to Fiscal 2004 primarily due to a reduction in
customer usage per degree day. We believe that the lower usage per degree day was primarily the
result of conservation in response to higher natural gas prices.

-18-

Table of Contents   

The increase in Gas Utility revenues during Fiscal 2005 is principally the result of a $53.4
million increase in retail core-market revenues reflecting higher average PGC rates and, to a
lesser extent, the increase in throughput and higher revenues from interruptible customers. These
increases were partially offset by a $37.2 million decrease in revenues from low-margin off-system
sales. Gas Utility s cost of gas was $390.1 million in Fiscal 2005 compared to $368.9 million in
Fiscal 2004 reflecting the effects of the higher PGC rates partially offset by lower cost of sales
associated with lower off-system sales.

The $3.5 million increase in Gas Utility total margin in Fiscal 2005 principally reflects
greater margin generated from higher interruptible delivery service volumes and higher average
interruptible delivery service unit margins. The increase in average interruptible delivery service
unit margins reflects an increase in the spread between delivered prices for natural gas and
alternative fuels, principally oil. Gross margin from retail core-market customers was relatively
stable as lower usage per degree day was offset by an increase in the number of customers.

Gas Utility operating income increased $1.5 million in Fiscal 2005 as the $3.5 million
increase in total margin and a $1.9 million increase in other income were partially offset by
higher operating and administrative expenses and a $1.2 million increase in depreciation and
amortization. The increase in other income is due in large part to the absence of costs recorded in
Fiscal 2004 related to a regulatory claim resulting from the discontinuance of natural gas service
to certain customers. Fiscal 2005 operating and administrative expenses were slightly higher than
in Fiscal 2004 as a $1.9 million increase in uncollectible accounts and customer assistance
expenses, the absence of environmental insurance settlements received in the prior year and higher
professional services expenses were partially offset by lower injuries and damages and distribution
system expenses. The increase in depreciation expense reflects the normal effects of yearly capital
expenditures. The increase in Gas Utility income before income taxes in Fiscal 2005 reflects the
increase in operating income partially offset by higher interest expense resulting from higher
average short-term debt outstanding and higher short-term interest rates.

Electric Utility.  Electric Utility s Fiscal 2005 kilowatt-hour sales increased principally
reflecting slightly colder Fiscal 2005 heating-season weather and warmer Fiscal 2005 cooling-season
weather which increased sales for air conditioning. The increase in Electric Utility revenues
principally reflects the effects of a 4.5% increase in its POLR electric generation rates effective
January 1, 2005 and the higher kilowatt-hour sales. Electric
Utility s cost of sales increased to $47.8 million in Fiscal
2005 from $43.3 million in Fiscal 2004 as a result of higher per-unit purchased power costs and the higher sales.

Electric Utility total margin in Fiscal 2005 increased $1.6 million principally as a result of
the previously mentioned increase in POLR rates and the higher kilowatt-hour sales partially offset
by the increase in per-unit purchased power costs. Operating income and income before income taxes
in Fiscal 2005 were higher than the prior year as the increase in total margin was partially offset
by higher operating and administrative costs, principally higher incentive compensation and
distribution system maintenance expenses.

-19-

Table of Contents   

PG Energy Acquisition 

On January 26, 2006, UGI signed a definitive agreement to acquire the natural gas utility
business of PG Energy from Southern Union Company for approximately $580 million in cash,
subject to certain adjustments associated with the working capital of the acquired business. UGI assigned
its rights under the Purchase and Sale Agreement to UGIPNG. The transaction was approved by the
PUC and effective August 24, 2006, our wholly-owned subsidiary, UGIPNG acquired the assets and
liabilities of the PG Energy business. The PG Energy business serves approximately 158,000
customers in thirteen counties in northeastern Pennsylvania. The cash payment of $580 million was
funded by UGI Utilities with net proceeds from the issuance of $275 million of UGI Utilities  bank
loans under a Credit Agreement dated as of August 18, 2006 (the  Bridge Loan ), cash capital
contributions from UGI of $265 million and $40 million under its revolving credit agreement for working capital. In September 2006, UGI Utilities repaid
the Bridge Loan with proceeds from the issuance of $175 million of 5.753% Senior Notes due 2016 and
$100 million of 6.206% Senior Notes due 2036.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY 

Capitalization and Liquidity 

UGI Utilities  total debt outstanding was $728.0 million at September 30, 2006. Included in
this amount is $216.0 million of bank loans outstanding. In September 2006, UGI Utilities issued
$175 million of 5.753% Senior Notes due 2016 and $100 million of 6.206% Senior Notes due 2036 and
used the proceeds to fund a portion of the $580 million PG Energy Acquisition purchase price.

UGI Utilities has a revolving credit agreement under which it may borrow up to a total of $350
million. This agreement is currently scheduled to expire in
August 2007 but may be automatically
extended by UGI Utilities to August 2011. At September 30, 2006, there was $216.0 million outstanding under our
revolving credit agreement. In the past, UGI Utilities also entered into short-term borrowings
under uncommitted arrangements with major banks in order to meet liquidity needs. Amounts
outstanding under the revolving credit agreement and the uncommitted arrangements are classified as
bank loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The revolving credit agreement requires UGI
Utilities to maintain a maximum ratio of Consolidated Debt to Consolidated Total Capital, as
defined, of 0.65 to 1.00. During Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005, peak bank loan borrowings totaled
$219.0 million and $91.4 million, respectively. Peak bank
loan borrowings have typically occurred during
the peak heating season months of December and January. Average daily bank loan borrowings were
$118.4 million in Fiscal 2006 and $52.9 million in Fiscal 2005. The increase in average and peak
bank loan borrowings during Fiscal 2006 reflects in large part borrowings to fund increased working
capital primarily resulting from higher natural gas prices and borrowings related to the working
capital of PNG Gas.

UGI Utilities has a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission under which it may issue up to $75 million of Medium-Term Notes or other debt
securities.

Based upon cash expected to be generated from our operations, borrowings under our revolving
credit agreement and the Company s ability to issue debt under its Medium-Term Note program,
management believes the Company will be able to meet its anticipated contractual and projected cash
commitments during Fiscal 2007. For additional discussion of UGI Utilities  long-term debt and
revolving credit agreement, see Note 4 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

-20-

Table of Contents   

Cash Flows 

Operating activities.  Due to the seasonal nature of UGI Utilities  businesses, cash flows from
operating activities are generally strongest during the second and third fiscal quarters when
customers pay for gas and electricity consumed during the peak heating season months. Conversely,
operating cash flows are generally at their lowest levels during the first and fourth fiscal
quarters when the Company s investment in working capital, principally accounts receivable and
inventories, is generally greatest. UGI Utilities uses short-term borrowings, primarily borrowings
under its revolving credit agreement as well as borrowings under uncommitted arrangements, to
manage these seasonal cash flow needs.

Cash flow from operating activities was $10.7 million in Fiscal 2006, $68.3 million in Fiscal
2005 and $67.0 million in Fiscal 2004. Cash flow from operating activities before changes in
operating working capital was $93.8 million in Fiscal 2006, $86.3 million in Fiscal 2005 and $92.9
million in Fiscal 2004. Changes in operating working capital used $83.1 million in Fiscal 2006,
$18.0 million Fiscal 2005 and $26.0 million in Fiscal 2004 of operating cash flow. The significant
decrease in cash flow from operating activities reflects a $65.1 million decrease in cash flow from
changes in operating working capital, principally greater cash required to fund natural gas storage
inventories and changes in accounts payable, a decrease in cash flow as a result of changes in
deferred fuel costs during the period and the refund of $13.5 million in electricity supplier
collateral deposits compared to the receipt of $11.0 million of such deposits in Fiscal 2005. The
greater cash requirements to fund working capital principally reflect the effects of higher natural
gas costs in Fiscal 2006 and higher natural gas storage inventory volumes at the end of Fiscal
2006.

Investing activities.  Cash used by investing activities was $647.8 million in Fiscal 2006, $47.5
million in Fiscal 2005 and $42.4 million in Fiscal 2004. The increase in cash used by investing
activities reflects the preliminary purchase price of the PG Energy Acquisition and, to a lesser
extent, increased capital expenditures. Fiscal 2006 capital expenditures principally reflect (1)
greater UGI Gas capital expenditures, (2) capital expenditures made by PNG Gas subsequent to its
acquisition on August 24, 2006, and (3) greater Electric Utility capital expenditures principally
associated with substation improvements.

Financing activities.  Cash provided by financing activities was $637.4 million in Fiscal 2006
compared with cash used by financing activities of $18.2 million in Fiscal 2005 and $24.8 million
in Fiscal 2004. Financing activity cash flows are primarily the result of issuances and repayments
of long-term debt, net short-term borrowings including borrowings under revolving credit agreements
and other uncommitted arrangements, cash dividends to UGI, and capital contributions from UGI. As
previously mentioned, we issued $175 million of 5.753% Senior Notes due 2016 and $100 million of
6.206% Senior Notes due 2036 and received $265 million in capital contributions from UGI, all of
which were used to fund the PG Energy Acquisition. During Fiscal 2006, net bank loan borrowings
totaled $134.8 million compared with $20.3 million in the prior-year. Included in Fiscal 2006 net
bank loan borrowings are repayments of two $35 million borrowings with maturities greater than
three months and a $20 million borrowing made on June 1, 2006, which was repaid in September 2006.
The increase in short-term borrowings in Fiscal 2006 reflects borrowings needed to finance the
higher working capital requirements, including working capital related to PNG Gas.

-21-

Table of Contents   

In December
2005, we refinanced $50 million of 7.14% maturing Medium-Term Notes through the issuance of $50
million of 5.64% Medium-Term Notes due in 2015. During Fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, we paid
dividends to UGI totaling $37.6 million, $38.5 million and $45.0 million, respectively.

UGI Utilities Pension Plan 

UGI Utilities sponsors two defined benefit pension plans ( Pension Plan ) for employees of UGI
Utilities, UGIPNG, UGI, and certain of UGI s other subsidiaries. As a result of the PG
Energy Acquisition, we acquired the pension assets and assumed the pension liabilities related
to the Employees  Retirement Plan of Southern Union Company Pennsylvania Division (the  Division
Plan ). The fair value of Pension Plan assets was $274.6 million and $211.7 million at September
30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in the fair value of Pension Plan assets
substantially reflects the fair value of the Division Plan assets acquired. At September 30, 2006
and 2005, the Pension Plan s assets exceeded accumulated benefit obligations by $5.9 million and
$7.4 million, respectively. The Company is in full compliance with regulations governing defined
benefit pension plans, including Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) rules
and regulations, and does not anticipate it will be required to make a contribution to the Pension
Plan in Fiscal 2007. Pre-tax pension expense reflected in Fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004
results was $2.2 million, $2.5 million and $1.0 million, respectively. The increase in pension
expense over this period principally reflects changes in the market value of Pension Plan assets,
decreases in the discount rate assumption, and beginning October 2004, the expiration of the
Pension Plan s transition asset amortization. Pension expense in Fiscal 2007 is expected to be
approximately $2.4 million.

Capital Expenditures 

In the following table, we present capital expenditures by business segment for Fiscal 2006,
Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004. We also provide amounts we expect to spend in Fiscal 2007. We expect
to finance a substantial portion of Fiscal 2007 capital expenditures from cash generated by
operations and the remainder from borrowings under our revolving credit agreement.

-22-

Table of Contents   

Contractual Cash Obligations and Commitments 

UGI Utilities has contractual cash obligations that extend beyond Fiscal 2006 including
scheduled repayments of long-term debt and interest, operating lease obligations, unconditional
purchase obligations for pipeline transportation and natural gas storage services, and commitments
to purchase natural gas and electricity. The following table presents significant contractual cash
obligations under agreements existing as of September 30, 2006 (in millions of dollars).

RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 

UGI provides certain financial and administrative services to UGI Utilities. UGI bills UGI
Utilities monthly for all direct corporate expenses and for an allocated share of indirect
corporate expenses incurred or paid on behalf of UGI Utilities. These billed expenses totaled $10.7
million in Fiscal 2006, $12.9 million in Fiscal 2005 and $11.2 million in Fiscal 2004 and are
classified as operating and administrative expenses   related parties in the Consolidated
Statements of Income. UGI Utilities provides limited administrative services to UGI and certain
of UGI s subsidiaries, principally payroll related services. Amounts billed to these entities by
UGI Utilities were not material.

Effective December 1, 2004, following a competitive bidding process, UGI Utilities entered
into a Storage Contract Administration Agreement ( Storage Agreement ) with UGI Energy Services,
Inc. ( Energy Services ), a wholly owned, indirect subsidiary of UGI. The Storage Agreement was
initially scheduled to expire on October 31, 2005, but effective November 1, 2005, UGI Utilities
and Energy Services agreed to extend the Storage Agreement through October 31, 2008. Under the
Storage Agreement, UGI Utilities released certain gas transportation and storage contracts through
October 31, 2008 and transferred associated gas storage inventories to Energy Services. UGI
Utilities may recall such released transportation and storage contracts without penalty if recalled
to meet operational requirements, and if not recalled, the releases will terminate at the end of
the term of the Storage Agreement. In the event that released contracts are recalled or at the
expiration of the Storage Agreement, Energy Services is required to transfer associated gas storage
inventories to UGI Utilities. In exchange for the ability to utilize these assets, Energy Services
pays a monthly fee to UGI Utilities and provides a firm natural gas delivery service to UGI
Utilities. During 2006 and 2005, UGI Utilities incurred costs associated with purchases of natural
gas storage inventories from Energy Services and incurred associated pipeline transportation and
storage capacity charges pursuant to the Storage Agreement totaling $85.8 million and $80.7
million, respectively.

-23-

Table of Contents   

UGI Utilities reflects the historical cost of the gas storage inventories and any exchange
receivable from Energy Services (for any amounts of gas inventories used but not yet replenished by
Energy Services) on its balance sheet under the caption  Inventories.  The carrying value of these
gas storage inventories at September 30, 2006, comprising 8.4 billion cubic feet of natural gas,
was $71.3 million. The carrying value of these gas storage inventories at September 30, 2005,
comprising approximately 8.1 billion cubic feet of natural gas, was $63.0 million.

UGI Utilities has a Gas Supply and Delivery Service Agreement with Energy Services pursuant to
which Energy Services provides certain gas supply and related delivery service to Gas Utility
during the peak heating-season months of November to March. In addition, from time to time, Gas
Utility purchases natural gas or pipeline capacity from Energy Services. The aggregate amount of
these transactions (exclusive of Storage Agreement transactions)
during Fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 totaled
$15.1 million, $8.5 million and $6.3 million, respectively.

From time to time, the Company sells natural gas or pipeline capacity to Energy Services.
During Fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, revenues associated with sales to Energy Services totaled $14.1
million, $4.2 million, and $1.7 million, respectively. These transactions did not have a material
effect on the Company s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are expected to have an effect on the
Company s financial condition, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital
expenditures or capital resources.

REGULATORY MATTERS 

As a result of Pennsylvania s Natural Gas Choice and Competition Act (the  Gas Competition
Act ), since July 1, 1999, all natural gas consumers in Pennsylvania, including residential and
smaller commercial and industrial customers ( core-market customers ), have been able to purchase
gas supplies from entities other than natural gas distribution companies ( NGDCs ). Gas Utility s
gross margin is not negatively affected by customers who use its transportation service and
purchase natural gas from another supplier because its tariff is designed so that no profit is
earned on the commodity portion of sales to firm customers. Under the Gas Competition Act, NGDCs,
like UGI Gas and PNG Gas, continue to serve as the suppliers of last resort for all core-market
customers, and such sales of gas, as well as the distribution service provided by NGDCs, continue
to be subject to rate regulation by the PUC. As of September 30, 2006, less than two percent of UGI
Gas  core-market customers purchase their gas from alternate suppliers. Currently, none of PNG
Gas  core-market customers purchase their gas from alternate suppliers.

Prior to the PG Energy Acquisition, on April 13, 2006, an application was filed with the PUC
seeking an increase in base rates. In an order entered on November 30, 2006, the PUC approved a
settlement of the base rate proceeding of PG Energy (PNG Gas). The settlement provides for an
increase in natural gas distribution base rates of approximately $12.5 million annually or
approximately 4%, effective December 2, 2006. In addition, the settlement provides PNG Gas the
ability to recover up to $1.0 million of additional corporate franchise tax through the state tax
adjustment surcharge mechanism.

-24-

Table of Contents   

As a result of the Electricity Generation Customer Choice and Competition Act that became
effective January 1, 1997, all of Electric Utility s customers have the ability to acquire their
electricity from entities other than Electric Utility. As of September 30, 2006, none of Electric
Utility s customers have chosen an alternative electricity generation supplier. Electric Utility
remains the provider of last resort ( POLR ) for its customers that are not served by an alternate
electric generation provider. The terms and conditions under which Electric Utility provides POLR
service, and rules governing the rates that may be charged for such service, have been established
in a series of PUC approved settlements, the latest of which became effective in June 2006
(collectively, the  POLR Settlement ).

Electric Utility s POLR service rules provide for annual shopping periods during which
customers may elect to remain on POLR service or choose an alternate supplier. Customers who do not
select an alternate supplier will be obligated to remain on POLR service until the next shopping
period. Residential customers who return to POLR service must remain on POLR service until the date
of the second open shopping period after returning. Commercial and industrial customers who return
to POLR service must remain on POLR service until the next open shopping period, and may, in
certain circumstances, be subject to generation rate surcharges. In October 2005, Electric Utility
was notified by the only alternative electric generation provider supplying electricity in its
service territory that it would cease providing electric generation service during the first
quarter of Fiscal 2006.

Consistent with the terms of the POLR Settlement, Electric Utility s POLR rates increased 4.5%
on January 1, 2005 and 3% on January 1, 2006 (a total of 7.5% above the total
rates in effect on December 31, 2004). Electric Utility is permitted to further increase its
POLR rates in January of 2007, 2008 and 2009. Electric Utility expects to increase its POLR rates
effective January 1, 2007 which will affect all metered customers. This increase is expected to
raise the average cost to residential customers by approximately 35% over the costs in effect
during calendar year 2006. Electric Utility is also permitted to and has entered into
multiple-year fixed-rate POLR contracts with certain of its customers. The PUC is currently
developing post-rate-cap POLR regulations that are expected to further define POLR service
obligations and pricing.

We account for the operations of Gas Utility and Electric Utility in accordance with SFAS No.
71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  ( SFAS 71 ). SFAS 71 requires us to
record the effects of rate regulation in the financial statements. SFAS 71 allows us to defer
expenses and revenues on the balance sheet as regulatory assets and liabilities when it is probable
that those expenses and income will be allowed in the ratemaking process in a period different from
the period in which they would have been reflected in the income statement of an unregulated
company. These deferred assets and liabilities are then flowed through the income statement in the
period in which the same amounts are included in rates and recovered from or refunded to customers.
As required by SFAS 71, we monitor our regulatory and competitive environments to determine whether
the recovery of our regulatory assets continues to be probable. If we were to determine that
recovery of these regulatory assets is no longer probable, such assets would be written off against
earnings. We believe that SFAS 71 continues to apply to our regulated operations and that the
recovery of our regulatory assets is probable.

-25-

Table of Contents   

MANUFACTURED GAS PLANTS 

From the late 1800s through the mid-1900s, UGI Utilities and its former subsidiaries owned and
operated a number of manufactured gas plants ( MGPs ) prior to the general availability of natural
gas. Some constituents of coal tars and other residues of the manufactured gas process are today
considered hazardous substances under the Superfund Law and may be present on the sites of former
MGPs. Between 1882 and 1953, UGI Utilities owned the stock of subsidiary gas companies in
Pennsylvania and elsewhere and also operated the businesses of some gas companies under agreement.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, UGI Utilities
divested all of its utility operations other than those which now constitute UGI Gas and Electric
Utility.

UGI Utilities does not expect its costs for investigation and remediation of hazardous
substances at Pennsylvania MGP sites to be material to its results of
operations because UGI Gas is currently permitted to include in rates, through future base rate proceedings, prudently
incurred remediation costs associated with such sites. In accordance with existing regulatory
practices of the PUC, PNG Gas amortizes as removal costs over a five-year period site-specific
environmental investigation and remediation costs.

As a result of the PG Energy Acquisition by our wholly-owned subsidiary, UGIPNG, UGIPNG became
a party to a Multi-Site Remediation Consent Order and Agreement between PG Energy and the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection dated March 31, 2004 ( Multi-Site Agreement ).
The Multi-Site Agreement requires UGIPNG to perform a specified level of activities associated with
environmental investigation and remediation work at eleven
currently owned properties on which MGP-related facilities were
operated ( Properties ). UGIPNG
is not required to spend more than $1.1 million in any calendar year for such expenditures,
including costs to perform work on the Properties. Costs related to investigation and remediation
of one property formerly owned by UGIPNG are also included in this
cap. The Multi-Site Agreement terminates
at the end of fifteen years but may be terminated by either party at the end of any two-year period
beginning with the effective date.

UGI Utilities has been notified of several sites outside Pennsylvania on which private parties
allege MGPs were formerly owned or operated by it or owned or operated by its former subsidiaries.
Such parties are investigating the extent of environmental contamination or performing
environmental remediation. UGI Utilities is currently litigating four claims against it relating
to out-of-state sites. We accrue environmental investigation and cleanup costs when it is probable
that a liability exists and the amount or range of amounts can be reasonably estimated.

Management believes that under applicable law UGI Utilities should not be liable in those
instances in which a former subsidiary owned or operated an MGP. There could be, however,
significant future costs of an uncertain amount associated with environmental damage caused by MGPs
outside Pennsylvania that UGI Utilities directly operated, or that were owned or operated by former
subsidiaries of UGI Utilities, if a court were to conclude that (1) the subsidiary s separate
corporate form should be disregarded or (2) UGI Utilities should be considered to have been an
operator because of its conduct with respect to its subsidiary s MGP.

-26-

Table of Contents   

On September 22, 2006, South Carolina Electric   Gas Company ( SCE G ), a subsidiary of SCANA
Corporation, filed a lawsuit against UGI Utilities in the District Court of South Carolina seeking
contribution from UGI Utilities for past and future remediation costs related to the operations of
a former MGP located in Charleston, South Carolina. SCE G asserts that the plant operated from
1855 to 1954 and alleges that UGI Utilities controlled operations of the plant from 1910 to 1926
and is liable for 47% of the costs associated with the site. SCE G asserts that it has spent
approximately $22 million in remediation costs and $26 million in third-party claims relating to
the site and estimates that future remediation costs could be as high as $2.5 million. SCE G
further asserts that it has received a demand from the United States Justice Department for natural
resource damages. UGI Utilities believes that it has good defenses to this claim and is defending
the suit.

In April 2003, Citizens Communications Company ( Citizens ) served a complaint naming UGI
Utilities as a third-party defendant in a civil action pending in the United States District for
the District of Maine. In that action, the plaintiff, City of Bangor, Maine ( City ) sued Citizens
to recover environmental response costs associated with MGP wastes generated at a plant allegedly
operated by Citizens  predecessors at a site on the Penobscot River. Citizens subsequently joined
UGI Utilities and ten other third-party defendants alleging that the third-party defendants are
responsible for an equitable share of costs Citizens may be required to pay to the City for
cleaning up tar deposits in the Penobscot River. Citizens alleges that UGI Utilities and its
predecessors owned and operated the plant from 1901 to 1928. Studies conducted by the City and
Citizens suggest that it could cost up to $18 million to clean up the river. Citizens  third party
claims have been stayed pending a resolution of the City s suit against Citizens, which was tried
in September 2005. Maine s Department of Environmental Protection ( DEP ) informed UGI Utilities
in March 2005 that it considers UGI Utilities to be a potentially responsible party
for costs incurred by the State of Maine related to gas plant contaminants at this site. On
June 27, 2006, the court issued an order finding Citizens responsible for 60% of the cleanup costs.
The amount of Citizens  liability has not been finally determined. The court has stayed further
proceedings while the City and Citizens discuss settlement. UGI Utilities believes that it has
good defenses to Citizens  claim and to any claim that the DEP may bring to recover its costs, and
is defending the Citizens  suit.

By letter dated July 29, 2003, Atlanta Gas Light Company ( AGL ) served UGI Utilities with a
complaint filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida in which AGL
alleges that UGI Utilities is responsible for 20% of approximately $8 million incurred by AGL in
the investigation and remediation of a former MGP site in St. Augustine, Florida. UGI Utilities
formerly owned stock of the St. Augustine Gas Company, the owner and operator of the MGP. On March
22, 2005, the trial court granted UGI Utilities  motion for summary judgment. AGL appealed and on
September 6, 2006, the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court s entry of
summary judgment, effectively terminating the case.

AGL previously informed UGI Utilities that it was investigating contamination that appeared to
be related to MGP operations at a site owned by AGL in Savannah, Georgia. A former subsidiary of
UGI Utilities operated the MGP in the early 1900s. AGL has informed UGI Utilities that it has
begun remediation of MGP wastes at the site and believes that the total cost of remediation could
be as high as $55 million. AGL has not filed suit against UGI Utilities for a share of these
costs. UGI Utilities believes that it will have good defenses to any action that may arise out of
this site.

-27-

Table of Contents   

On September 20, 2001, Consolidated Edison Company of New York ( ConEd ) filed suit against
UGI Utilities in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, seeking
contribution from UGI Utilities for an allocated share of response costs associated with
investigating and assessing gas plant related contamination at former MGP sites in Westchester
County, New York. The complaint alleges that UGI Utilities  owned and operated  the MGPs prior to
1904. The complaint also seeks a declaration that UGI Utilities is responsible for an allocated
percentage of future investigative and remedial costs at the sites. ConEd believes that the cost of
remediation for all of the sites could exceed $70 million.

The trial court granted UGI Utilities  motion for summary judgment and dismissed ConEd s
complaint. The grant of summary judgment was entered April 1, 2004. ConEd appealed and on September
9, 2005 a panel of the Second Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed in part the
decision of the trial court. The appellate panel affirmed the trial court s decision dismissing
claims that UGI Utilities was liable under CERCLA as an operator of MGPs owned and operated by its
former subsidiaries. The appellate panel reversed the trial court s decision that UGI Utilities was
released from liability at three sites where UGI Utilities operated MGPs under lease. On October 7,
2005, UGI Utilities filed for reconsideration of the panel s order, which was denied by the Second
Circuit Court of Appeals on January 17, 2006. On April 14, 2006, UGI Utilities filed a petition
requesting that the United States Supreme Court review the decision of the Second Circuit Court of
Appeals. On October 2, 2006, the Supreme Court entered an order inviting the Solicitor General to
file a brief expressing the views of the United States in this case.

By letter dated June 24, 2004, KeySpan Energy ( KeySpan ) informed UGI Utilities that KeySpan
has spent $2.3 million and expects to spend another $11.0 million to clean up an MGP site it owns
in Sag Harbor, New York. KeySpan believes that UGI Utilities is responsible for approximately 50%
of these costs as a result of UGI Utilities  alleged direct ownership and operation of the plant
from 1885 to 1902. By letter dated June 6, 2006, KeySpan reported that the New York Department of
Environmental Conservation has approved a remedy for the site that is estimated to cost
approximately $10 million. KeySpan believes that the cost could be as high as $20 million. UGI
Utilities is in the process of reviewing the information provided by KeySpan and is investigating
this claim.

On September 11, 2006, UGI Utilities  received a complaint filed by Yankee Gas Services
Company and Connecticut Light and Power Company, subsidiaries of Northeast Utilities, (together the
 Northeast Companies ) in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut seeking
contribution from UGI Utilities for past and future remediation costs related to MGP operations on
thirteen sites owned by the Northeast Companies in nine cities in the State of Connecticut. The
Northeast Companies allege that UGI Utilities controlled operations of the plants from 1883 to
1941. The Northeast Companies estimated that remediation costs for all of the sites would total
approximately $215 million and asserted that UGI Utilities is responsible for approximately $103
million of this amount. Based on information supplied by the Northeast Companies and UGI
Utilities  own investigation, UGI Utilities believes that it may have operated one of the sites,
Waterbury North, under lease for a portion of its operating history. UGI Utilities is reviewing
the Northeast Companies  estimate that remediation costs at Waterbury North could total $23
million. UGI Utilities believes that it has good defenses to this claim and is defending the suit.

-28-

Table of Contents   

MARKET RISK DISCLOSURES 

Gas Utility s tariffs contain clauses that permit recovery of substantially all of the
prudently incurred costs of natural gas it sells to its customers. The recovery clauses provide for
periodic adjustments for the difference between the total amounts actually collected from customers
through PGC rates and the recoverable costs incurred. Because of this ratemaking mechanism, there
is limited commodity price risk associated with our Gas Utility operations. Gas Utility uses
exchange-traded natural gas call option and futures contracts to reduce volatility in the cost of
gas it purchases for its retail core-market customers. The cost of these call option and futures
contracts, net of any associated gains or losses, is included in Gas Utility s PGC recovery
mechanism.

Electric Utility purchases its power needs from electricity suppliers under fixed-price energy
and capacity contracts and, to a much lesser extent, on the spot market. Prices for electricity can
be volatile especially during periods of high demand or tight supply. Consistent with the terms of
the POLR Settlement, Electric Utility s POLR rates increased 4.5% on January 1, 2005 and 3% on
January 1, 2006 (a total of 7.5% above the total rates in effect on December 31, 2004). Electric
Utility is permitted, but not required, to further increase its POLR rates annually in January of
2007, 2008 and 2009. Pursuant to its POLR settlement in June 2006, Electric Utility expects to
increase its POLR rates effective January 1, 2007 which will affect all metered customers. This
increase is expected to raise the average cost to residential customers by approximately 35% over
the costs in effect during calendar year 2006. Electric Utility is also
permitted to and has entered into multiple-year fixed-rate POLR contracts with certain of its
customers. The PUC is currently developing post-rate-cap POLR regulations that are expected to
further define POLR service obligations and pricing. Currently, Electric Utility s fixed-price
contracts with electricity suppliers mitigate most risks associated with the POLR service rate
limits in effect through December 31, 2009. However, should any of the suppliers under these
contracts fail to provide electric power under the terms of the power and capacity contracts, any
increases in the cost of replacement power or capacity could negatively impact Electric Utility
results. In order to reduce this non-performance risk, Electric Utility has diversified its
purchases across several suppliers and entered into bilateral collateral arrangements with certain
of them.

Electric Utility has and may enter into electric price swap agreements to reduce the
volatility in the cost of a portion of its anticipated electricity requirements. Electric Utility
has an electric price swap agreement associated with purchases of a portion of electricity
anticipated to occur in 2007. At September 30, 2006, the fair value of our electric price swap was
a gain of $5.2 million. Fair value reflects the estimated amount that we would expect to receive or
pay to terminate the contract based upon quoted market prices of comparable contracts at September
30, 2006. An adverse change in electricity prices of ten percent would result in a $1.4 million
decrease in the fair value of the swap.

-29-

Table of Contents   

We have both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. Changes in interest rates impact the cash
flows of variable-rate debt but generally do not impact its fair value. Conversely, changes in
interest rates impact the fair value of fixed-rate debt but do not impact their cash flows.

Our variable-rate debt includes our short-term borrowings. These debt agreements provide for
interest rates on borrowings that are indexed to short-term market interest rates. Based upon the
average level of borrowings outstanding under these agreements in Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005, an
increase in short-term interest rates of 100 basis points (1%) would have increased annual interest
expense by $1.2 million and $0.5 million, respectively.

The remainder of our debt outstanding is subject to fixed rates of interest. A 100 basis point
increase in market interest rates would result in decreases in the fair value of this fixed-rate
debt of $43.8 million and $16.4 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A 100 basis
point decrease in market interest rates would result in increases in the fair value of this
fixed-rate debt of $50.6 million and $18.7 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

In order to reduce interest rate risk associated with near or medium term issuances of
fixed-rate debt, we may enter into interest rate protection agreements. The fair value of our
unsettled interest rate protection agreement, which has been designated and qualifies as a cash
flow hedge, was a gain of $0.4 million at September 30, 2006. An adverse change in interest rates
of ten percent on ten-year U.S. treasury notes would result in a $0.4 million decrease in the fair
value of this interest rate protection agreement.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in compliance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the selection and
application of appropriate accounting principles to the relevant facts and circumstances of
the Company s operations and the use of estimates made by management. The Company has
identified the following critical accounting policies and estimates that are most important to the
portrayal of the Company s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in these policies
and estimates could have a material effect on the financial statements. The application of these
accounting policies and estimates necessarily requires management s most subjective or complex
judgments regarding estimates and projected outcomes of future events which could have a material
impact on the financial statements. Management has reviewed these critical accounting policies, and
the estimates and assumptions associated with them, with the Company s Audit Committee. In
addition, management has reviewed the following disclosures regarding the application of these
critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee.

Accounting for Business Combinations.  In the event that the Company enters into a material
business combination, in accordance with SFAS No. 141,  Business Combinations  ( SFAS 141 ), the
purchase price is allocated to the various assets and liabilities acquired at their estimated fair
value. Fair values of assets are based upon available information. Estimating fair values can be
a complex and judgmental area and most commonly impacts property, plant and equipment and
intangible assets, including those with indefinite lives. In 2006, our preliminary allocation of
the purchase price of the PG Energy Acquisition resulted in the Company recording

-30-

Table of Contents   

goodwill. In
accordance with SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  ( SFAS 142 ), our reporting
unit with goodwill is required to perform impairment tests annually or whenever events or
circumstances indicate that the value of goodwill may be impaired. In order to perform such
impairment tests, management must determine the reporting unit s fair value using quoted market
prices or, in the absence of quoted market prices, valuation techniques which use discounted
estimates of future cash flows to be generated by the reporting unit. These cash flow estimates
involve management judgments based on a broad range of information and historical results. To the
extent estimated cash flows are revised downward, the reporting unit may be required to write down
all or a portion of its goodwill which would adversely impact our results of operations. As of
September 30, 2006, our goodwill, based on our preliminary purchase price allocation, totaled
$182.9 million.

Litigation accruals and environmental remediation liabilities . We are involved in litigation
regarding pending claims and legal actions that arise in the normal course of our businesses. In
addition, UGI Utilities and its former subsidiaries owned and operated a number of MGPs in
Pennsylvania and elsewhere, and UGIPNG owned and operated a number of MGP sites located in
Pennsylvania, at which hazardous substances may be present. In accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we establish reserves for pending
claims and legal actions or environmental remediation obligations when it is probable that a
liability exists and the amount or range of amounts can be reasonably estimated. Reasonable
estimates involve management judgments based on a broad range of information and prior experience.
These judgments are reviewed quarterly as more information is received and the amounts reserved are
updated as necessary. Such estimated reserves may differ materially from the actual liability, and
such reserves may change materially as more information becomes available and estimated reserves
are adjusted.

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment.  We compute depreciation on UGI Utilities property,
plant and equipment on a straight-line basis over the average remaining lives of its
various classes of depreciable property. Changes in the estimated useful lives of property, plant
and equipment could have a material effect on our results of operations. As of September 30, 2006,
UGI Utilities net property, plant and equipment totaled $1,050.8 million and we recorded
depreciation expense of $25.5 million during Fiscal 2006.

Regulatory assets and liabilities.  Gas Utility and Electric Utility s distribution businesses are
subject to regulation by the PUC. In accordance with SFAS No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of
Certain Types of Regulation,  we record the effects of rate regulation in our financial statements
as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities. We continually assess whether the regulatory assets
are probable of future recovery by evaluating the regulatory environment, recent rate orders and
public statements issued by the PUC, and the status of any pending deregulation legislation. If
future recovery of regulatory assets ceases to be probable, the elimination of those regulatory
assets would adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. As of September 30, 2006,
our regulatory assets totaled $72.9 million. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Defined Benefit Pension Plans.  The costs of providing benefits under our Pension Plan is dependent
on historical information such as employee age, length of service, level of compensation and the
actual rate of return on plan assets. In addition, certain assumptions relating to the future are
used to determine pension expense including, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations,

-31-

Table of Contents   

the expected rate of return on plan assets and the rate of compensation increase, among others. Pension
Plan assets are held in trust and consist principally of equity and fixed income mutual funds.
Changes in plan assumptions as well as fluctuations in actual equity or bond market returns could
have a material impact on future pension costs. We believe the two most critical assumptions are
the expected rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate. An unfavorable change in the
expected rate of return on plan assets of 50 basis points would result in an increase in pre-tax
pension expense of approximately $1.2 million in Fiscal 2007. An unfavorable change in the discount
rate of 50 basis points would result in an increase in pre-tax pension expense of approximately
$1.4 million in Fiscal 2007.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 

Below is a listing of recently issued accounting pronouncements or guidance by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board or SEC. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional discussion of such pronouncements.

Title of Pronouncement  
       
      Month of Issue  

FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes 

June 2006 

SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measures 

September 2006 

SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statement Nos. 87, 88,
106, and 132(R) 

September 2006 

Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior
Year Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements 

September 2006 

-32-

Table of Contents   

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Information contained above in this Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K may contain
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements use forward-looking words such
as  believe,   plan,   anticipate,   continue,   estimate,   expect,   may,   will,  or other
similar words. These statements discuss plans, strategies, events or developments that we expect or
anticipate will or may occur in the future.

A forward-looking statement may include a statement of the assumptions or bases underlying the
forward-looking statement. We believe that we have chosen these assumptions or bases in good faith
and that they are reasonable. However, we caution you that actual results almost always vary from
assumed facts or bases, and the differences between actual results and assumed facts or bases can
be material, depending on the circumstances. When considering forward-looking statements, you
should keep in mind the following important factors which could affect our future results and could
cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements:
(1) adverse weather conditions resulting in reduced demand; (2) price volatility and availability
of oil, electricity and natural gas and the capacity to transport them to market areas; (3) changes
in laws and regulations, including safety, tax and accounting matters; (4) competitive pressures
from the same and alternative energy sources; (5) liability for environmental claims; (6) customer
conservation measures due to high energy prices and improvements in energy efficiency and
technology resulting in reduced demand; (7) adverse labor relations; (8) large customer,
counterparty or supplier defaults; (9) increased uncollectible accounts expense; (10) liability for
personal injury and property damage arising from explosions and other catastrophic events,
including acts of terrorism, resulting from operating hazards and risks incidental to generating
and distributing electricity and transporting, storing and distributing natural gas, including
liability in excess of insurance coverage; (11) political, regulatory and economic conditions in
the United States; and (12) reduced access to capital markets and interest rate fluctuations.

These factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that could cause actual results
to differ materially from those expressed in any of our forward-looking statements. Other unknown
or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results. We undertake
no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new
information or future events except as required by the federal securities laws.

-33-

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7A.  
       
       QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  are contained in Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption  Market
Risk Disclosures  and are incorporated here by reference.

ITEM 8.  
       
       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

The financial statements and the financial statement schedule referred to in the Index
contained on page F-2 of this Report are incorporated herein by reference.

-34-

Table of Contents   

ITEM 9.  
       
       CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

None.

ITEM 9A.  
       
       CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

(a) 
       
      The Company s management, with the participation of the Company s Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the
Company s disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by
this Report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as of September
30, 2006 were designed and functioning effectively to provide reasonable assurance that
the information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports filed under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and
reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms and (ii)
accumulated and communicated to our management, including the Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding
disclosure.

(b) 
       
      Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting for the Company. In order to evaluate the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management has conducted an assessment, including
testing, of the Company s internal control over financial reporting using the criteria
in Internal Control   Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO Framework ). The scope of that
assessment excluded the PG Energy business acquired on August 24, 2006 by UGI Penn
Natural Gas, Inc. ( UGIPNG ), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. As of
September 30, 2006, UGIPNG s total assets represented approximately 42% of the
Company s consolidated total assets and less than 2% of its revenues. Such exclusion
is permitted based upon current guidance of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.

Internal control over financial reporting refers to the process designed by, and
under the supervision of, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States and includes policies and procedures that, among other things, provide
reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that transactions are executed
in accordance with management s authorization and are properly
recorded to permit the preparation of reliable financial information. Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate due to changing
conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

-35-

Table of Contents   

Based on its assessment, management has concluded that the Company maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based
on the COSO Framework. Management s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, has been audited
by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as
stated in their report.

For the related report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, our Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm, see Item 8 of this Report (which information is incorporated
herein by reference).

(c) 
       
      As a result of the August 24, 2006 acquisition by UGIPNG of PG Energy from
Southern Union Company, we are integrating UGIPNG into our disclosure controls and
procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting. For an interim period,
Southern Union Company is providing certain information technology services to UGIPNG and is
assisting in migrating transaction-based processes to the Company s systems, as well as
transferring historical UGIPNG data to the Company s systems. The
migration plan is expected to be completed during fiscal year 2007. We have extended
internal control procedures over quarterly financial reporting to include UGIPNG.
Other than changes arising out of the PG Energy acquisition, there has been no change
in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fiscal
quarter and year ended September 30, 2006 that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.  
       
       OTHER INFORMATION 

Not applicable.

-36-

Table of Contents   

PART III: 

ITEM 14.  
       
       PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 

The aggregate fees billed by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Company s independent registered
public accountants, in fiscal years 2006 and 2005 were as follows:

1  
       
      Audit Fees were for audit services, including (i) the annual audit of the
consolidated financial statements of the Company, (ii) the audit of management s assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial statements, (iii) review of the interim financial
statements included in the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q of the Company, and (iv) services that
only the independent public accounting firm can reasonably be expected to provide, such as services
associated with SEC registration statements, and documents issued in connection with securities
offerings.

Consistent with SEC policies regarding auditor independence, the Audit Committee has
responsibility for appointing, setting compensation and overseeing the work of the Company s
independent accountants. In recognition of this responsibility, the Audit Committee has a policy of
pre-approving all audit and permissible non-audit services provided by the independent accountants.

Prior to engagement of the Company s independent accountants for the next year s audit,
management submits a list of services and related fees expected to be rendered during that year
within each of the four categories of services noted above to the Audit Committee for approval.

-37-

Table of Contents   

PART IV: 

ITEM 15.  
       
       EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a)  
       
       Documents filed as part of this report: 

(1)  
       
       Financial Statements: 

Included under Item 8 are the following financial statements and
supplementary data:

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2006 and 2005

Consolidated Statements of Income for the fiscal years ended
September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended
September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004

Consolidated Statements of Stockholder s Equity for the fiscal years
ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

We have omitted all other financial statement schedules because the required
information is (1) not present; (2) not present in amounts sufficient to
require submission of the schedule; or (3) included elsewhere in the
financial statements or notes thereto contained in this report.

(3)  
       
       List of Exhibits: 

The exhibits filed as part of this report are as follows (exhibits
incorporated by reference are set forth with the name of the registrant, the
type of report and registration number or last date of the period for which
it was filed, and the exhibit number in such filing):

-38-

Table of Contents   

Incorporation by Reference  

Exhibit No.  
       
      Exhibit  
       
      Registrant  
       
      Filing  
       
      Exhibit  

3.1

UGI Utilities  Amended and Restated
Articles of Incorporation

Utilities

Registration
Statement No.
333-72540
(10/31/01)

3  

3.2

Bylaws of UGI Utilities as amended
through September 30, 2003

Utilities

Form 10-K (9/30/03)

3.2  

4

Instruments defining the rights of
security holders, including
indentures. (The Company agrees to
furnish to the Commission upon
request a copy of any instrument
defining the rights of holders of
its long-term debt not required to
be filed pursuant to the description
of Exhibit 4 contained in Item 601
of Regulation S-K)

4.1

UGI Utilities  Articles of
Incorporation and Bylaws referred to
in Exhibit Nos. 3.1 and 3.2

4.2

Indenture, dated as of August 1,
1993, by and between UGI Utilities,
Inc., as Issuer, and U.S. Bank
National Association, as successor
trustee, incorporated by reference
to the Registration Statement on
Form S-3 filed on April 8, 1994

Utilities

Registration
Statement No.
33-77514 (4/8/94)

4(c)  

4.3

Form of Fixed Rate Medium-Term Note

Utilities

Form 8-K (8/26/94)

(4)i   

4.4

Form of Fixed Rate Series B
Medium-Term Note

Utilities

Form 8-K (8/1/96)

4(i)  

4.5

Form of Floating Rate Series B
Medium-Term Note

Utilities

Form 8-K (8/1/96)

4(ii)  

4.6

Supplemental Indenture, dated as of
September 15, 2006, by and between
UGI Utilities, Inc., as Issuer, and
U.S. Bank National Association,
successor trustee to Wachovia Bank,
National Association

Utilities

Form 8-K (9/12/06)

4.2  

4.7

Officer s Certificate establishing
Medium-Term Notes series

Utilities

Form 8-K (8/26/94)

4(iv)  

-39-

Table of Contents   

-40-

Table of Contents   

-41-

Table of Contents   

-42-

Table of Contents   

-43-

Table of Contents   

-44-

Table of Contents   

Incorporation by Reference  

Exhibit No.  
       
      Exhibit  
       
      Registrant  
       
      Filing  
       
      Exhibit  

*12.1

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to
Fixed Charges

14

Code of Ethics for principal
executive, financial and accounting
officers

Utilities

Form 10-K (9/30/03)

14  

*23

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

*31.1

Certification by the Chief Executive
Officer relating to the Registrant s
Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended September 30, 2006 pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002

*31.2

Certification by the Chief Financial
Officer relating to the Registrant s
Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended September 30, 2006 pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002

*32

Certification by the Chief Executive
Officer and the Chief Financial
Officer relating to the Registrant s
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended September 30, 2006

* 
       
      Filed herewith.

** 
       
      As required by Item 14(a)(3), this exhibit is identified as a compensatory plan or arrangement.

-45-

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

UGI UTILITIES, INC.  

Date:  December 5, 2006  
     By:   
     /s/ John C. Barney

John C. Barney  

Senior Vice President - Finance and Chief
Financial Officer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been
signed below on December 5, 2006 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant in the
capacities indicated.

Signature  
       
      Title  

/s/ David W. Trego

David W. Trego 

President and Chief
Executive Officer 
(Principal Executive
Officer) and Director 

/s/ Lon R. Greenberg

Lon R. Greenberg 

Chairman and Director 

/s/ John L. Walsh

John L. Walsh 

Vice Chairman
and Director 

/s/ John C. Barney

John C. Barney 

Sr. Vice President   Finance and
Chief Financial Officer  (Principal Financial
Officer and Principal Accounting Officer) 

/s/ Stephen D. Ban

Stephen D. Ban 

Director 

-46-

Table of Contents   

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been
signed below on December 5, 2006 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant in the
capacities indicated.

Signature  
       
      Title  

/s/ Richard C. Gozon

Richard C. Gozon 

Director 

/s/ Ernest E. Jones

Ernest E. Jones 

Director 

/s/ Anne Pol

Anne Pol 

Director 

/s/ Marvin O. Schlanger

Marvin O. Schlanger 

Director 

/s/ James W. Stratton

James W. Stratton 

Director 

/s/ Roger B. Vincent

Roger B. Vincent 

Director 

-47-

Table of Contents   

Supplemental Information to be Furnished With Reports Filed Pursuant to   Section 15(d)   of the Act by
Registrants Which Have Not Registered Securities Pursuant to Section 12 of the Act: 

No annual report or proxy material was sent to security holders in fiscal year 2006.

-48-

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. 

FINANCIAL INFORMATION

FOR INCLUSION IN ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2006

F-1

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC.

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
SCHEDULE

We have omitted all other financial statement schedules because the required information is
either (1) not present; (2) not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the
schedule; or (3) included elsewhere in the financial statements or related notes.

F-2

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To the Board of Directors and Shareholder of UGI Utilities, Inc.:

We have completed integrated audits of UGI Utilities, Inc. s 2006 and 2005 consolidated financial
statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 and an
audit of its 2004 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are
presented below.

Consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule 

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under Item
15(a)(1), present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of UGI Utilities, Inc.
and its subsidiaries at September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2006 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our
opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2)
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement
schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective October 1, 2005, the
Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123(R)  Share-Based Payment (revised
2004) .

Internal control over financial reporting 

Also, in our opinion, management s assessment, included in the accompanying Management s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 8, that the Company maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 based on criteria
established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based
on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria
established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the COSO. The Company s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial

F-3

Table of Contents   

reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management s assessment and on the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We
conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control
over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary
in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

As described in Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, management has
excluded the PG Energy business from its assessment of internal control over financial reporting as
of September 30, 2006 because it was acquired by the Company in a purchase business combination on
August 24, 2006. We have also excluded the PG Energy business from our audit of internal control
over financial reporting. The PG Energy business is a wholly-owned subsidiary whose total assets
represent approximately 42% of total consolidated assets and total revenues represent less than 2%
of total consolidated revenues as of and for the year ended September 30, 2006.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
December 8, 2006

F-4

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  
(Thousands of dollars)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-5

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  
(Thousands of dollars, except per share)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME  
(Thousands of dollars)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-7

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  
(Thousands of dollars)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-8

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDER S EQUITY  
(Thousands of dollars)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-9

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Thousands of dollars, except per share amounts) 

1. ORGANIZATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Consolidation Principles 

UGI Utilities, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of UGI Corporation ( UGI ), and its wholly-owned
subsidiary UGI Penn Natural Gas, Inc. ( UGIPNG ) own and operate (1) a natural gas distribution
utility in parts of eastern Pennsylvania ( UGI Gas ), (2) a natural gas distribution utility in
northeastern Pennsylvania ( PNG Gas ) and (3) an electricity distribution utility in northeastern
Pennsylvania ( Electric Utility ). On August 24, 2006, UGI Utilities, Inc. s subsidiary, UGIPNG,
acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Southern Union Company s ( SU s ) PG
Energy Division and all of the issued and outstanding stock of SU s wholly owned subsidiary PG
Energy Services, Inc. (collectively, the  PG Energy Acquisition ). See Note 2.

We refer to UGI Gas and PNG Gas collectively as  Gas Utility.  The term  UGI Utilities  is used
sometimes as an abbreviated reference to UGI Utilities, Inc. or UGI Utilities, Inc. and UGIPNG. We
refer to Gas Utility and Electric Utility collectively as  the Company  or  we.  Our consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of UGI Utilities and its subsidiaries. We eliminate all
significant intercompany accounts when we consolidate. Our Gas Utility and Electric Utility are
subject to regulation by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission ( PUC ).

Use of Estimates 

We make estimates and assumptions when preparing financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These estimates and assumptions
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, as well as the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

Regulated Utility Operations 

We account for the operations of Gas Utility and Electric Utility in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation  ( SFAS 71 ). SFAS 71 requires us to record the effects of rate regulation in the
financial statements. SFAS 71 allows us to defer expenses and revenues on the balance sheet as
regulatory assets and liabilities when it is probable that those expenses and income will be
allowed in the ratemaking process in a period different from the period in which they would have
been reflected in the income statement of an unregulated company. These deferred assets and
liabilities are then flowed through the income statement in the period in which the same amounts
are included in rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. As required by SFAS 71, we
monitor our regulatory and competitive environments to determine whether the recovery of our
regulatory assets continues to be probable. If we were to determine that recovery of these
regulatory assets is no longer probable, such assets would be written off against earnings. We
believe that SFAS 71 continues to apply to our regulated operations and that the recovery of our
regulatory assets is probable. See Note 3.

F-10

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

We define cash equivalents as all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less
when purchased. We record cash equivalents at cost plus accrued interest, which approximates market
value. Restricted cash represents the cash deposited in our natural gas futures brokerage account.

We paid interest totaling $22,131 in 2006, $17,509 in 2005 and $18,143 in 2004. We paid income
taxes totaling $24,939 in 2006, $36,348 in 2005 and $19,910 in 2004.

Revenue Recognition 

We record regulated revenues for service provided to the end of each month which includes an
accrual for certain unbilled amounts based upon estimated usage. We reflect the impact of Gas
Utility and Electric Utility rate increases or decreases at the time they become effective.
Nonregulated revenues are recognized as services are performed or products are delivered.

Inventories 

Our inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Substantially all of our inventory is
determined on an average cost method.

Income Taxes 

We record deferred income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Income resulting from the use of
accelerated depreciation methods based upon amounts recognized for ratemaking purposes. We also
record a deferred tax liability for tax benefits that are flowed through to ratepayers when
temporary differences originate and record a regulatory income tax asset for the probable increase
in future revenues that will result when the temporary differences reverse.

We are amortizing deferred investment tax credits related to the Company s plant additions over the
service lives of the related property. The Company reduces its deferred income tax liability for
the future tax benefits that will occur when the deferred investment tax credits, which are not
taxable, are amortized. We also reduce the regulatory income tax asset for the probable reduction
in future revenues that will result when such deferred investment tax credits amortize.

We join with UGI and its subsidiaries in filing a consolidated federal income tax return. We are
charged or credited for our share of current taxes resulting from the effects of our transactions
in the UGI consolidated federal income tax return including giving effect to intercompany
transactions. The result of this allocation is generally consistent with income taxes calculated
on a separate return basis.

F-11

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Property, Plant and Equipment and Related Depreciation 

We record property, plant and equipment at cost. When Gas Utility and Electric Utility retire
depreciable utility plant and equipment, we charge the original cost, net of removal costs and
salvage value, to accumulated depreciation for financial accounting purposes.

We record depreciation expense for plant and equipment on a straight-line method over the estimated
average remaining lives of the various classes of depreciable property. Depreciation expense as a
percentage of the related average depreciable base for Gas Utility was 2.5% in 2006, 2.4% in 2005
and 2.3% in 2004. Depreciation expense as a percentage of the related average depreciable base for
Electric Utility was 2.8% in 2006, 2.9% in 2005 and 2.8% in 2004. Depreciation expense was $25,501
in 2006, $23,046 in 2005, and $21,860 in 2004.

We evaluate the impairment of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. We evaluate recoverability
based upon undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by such assets.

Intangible Assets 

In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  ( SFAS
142 ), goodwill resulting from the PG Energy Acquisition is subject to tests for impairment at
least annually. SFAS 142 requires that we perform impairment tests more frequently than annually if
events or circumstances indicate that the value of goodwill might be impaired. The goodwill
recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at September 30, 2006 is based upon our preliminary
purchase price allocation, see Note 2. We use valuation techniques which use discounted estimates
of future cash flows to be generated in the absence of quoted market prices to perform our
impairment tests. No provision for goodwill impairment was recorded during 2006.

Computer Software Costs 

We include in property, plant and equipment costs associated with computer software we develop or
obtain for use in our businesses. We amortize computer software costs on a straight-line basis
over expected periods of benefit not exceeding fifteen years once the installed software is ready
for its intended use.

Deferred Fuel Costs 

Gas Utility s tariffs contain clauses which permit recovery of certain purchased gas costs through
the application of purchased gas cost ( PGC ) rates. The clauses provide for periodic adjustments
to PGC rates for the difference between the total amount of purchased gas costs collected from
customers and the recoverable costs incurred. In accordance with SFAS 71, we defer the difference
between amounts recognized in revenues and the applicable gas costs incurred until they are
subsequently billed or refunded to customers. The balance sheet caption  deferred fuel costs 
reflects amounts related to this PGC recovery mechanism.

F-12

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Employee Retirement Plans 

The Company sponsors two defined benefit pension plans ( Pension Plan ). The Company uses a market
related value of plan assets and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets to determine the
expected return on plan assets associated with the Pension Plan. The market related value of plan
assets other than equities in the Pension Plan is based upon the market price of the plan assets or
similar assets. The market related value of equities in the Pension Plan is calculated by rolling
forward the prior-year s market related value with contributions, disbursements and the expected
return on plan assets. One third of the difference between the expected and the actual value is
then added to or subtracted from the expected value to determine the new market related value. See
Note 6.

Stock-Based Compensation 

Under UGI s 2004 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan ( OECP ), certain key employees of UGI Utilities
may be granted stock options and other equity-based awards ( Units ) of UGI Common Stock. Such
awards typically vest ratably over a period of three years. There are certain change of control and
retirement eligibility conditions that, if met, generally result in accelerated vesting or
eliminate further service requirements. Stock options for UGI Common Stock generally can be
exercised no later than ten years from the grant date. Effective October 1, 2005, the Company
adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123R ). Prior to October 1, 2005,
as permitted, we applied the provisions of Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB 25 ), in recording compensation expense for grants
of stock, stock options and other equity instruments to employees. Under APB 25, the Company did
not record any compensation expense for stock options, but provided the required pro forma
disclosures as if we had determined compensation expense under the fair value method prescribed by
the provisions of SFAS No. 123. Under SFAS 123R, all equity-based compensation cost is measured on
the grant date or at period end based on the fair value of that award and is recognized in the
income statement over the requisite service period.

As permitted by SFAS 123R, under the modified prospective approach, effective October 1, 2005, we
began recording compensation expense for awards that were not vested as of that date and did not
restate any prior periods. For the periods prior to and subsequent to the adoption of SFAS 123R,
we used the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of each option. The
adoption of SFAS 123R resulted in pre-tax compensation expense associated with stock options of
$371 ($217 after-tax) during 2006. As of September 30, 2006, there was $438 of unrecognized
compensation cost related to non-vested stock options that is expected to be recognized over a
weighted average period of 1.8 years. Assuming no significant change in the level of future stock
option grants to the Company s employees, we do not believe that compensation expense associated
with stock options will have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or
cash flows.

Both prior to and subsequent to the adoption of SFAS 123R, we measured and recorded compensation
cost of Units awarded to employees prior to January 1, 2006 (that can be settled at UGI s option in
cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination of both) based upon their fair value as of the end
of each period. The fair value of Units is generally dependent upon UGI s
stock price and its performance in comparison to a group of peer companies. The fair value of these
awards is expensed over requisite service periods.

F-13

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Effective in June 2006, UGI modified the settlement terms of those Units awarded to employees
having an original grant date of January 1, 2006 which did not impact the number of awards to
employees. For these Unit awards, we used the Monte Carlo valuation model to estimate their fair
value. Compensation costs associated with these modified awards are measured based upon the fair
value on the date of modification and as of the end of each period, as appropriate. Compensation
costs are recorded over requisite service periods. The Company did not incur any incremental
compensation expense as a result of this modification.

We recorded total net pre-tax equity-based compensation expense associated with both Units and
stock options of $367 ($215 after-tax) during the twelve months ended September 30, 2006. The
following table illustrates the effects on net income as if we had applied the provisions of SFAS
123R to all equity-based compensation awards for the comparable periods prior to the adoption of
SFAS 123R.

During the year ended September 30, 2006, a portion of vested Unit awards were settled in
shares of UGI Common Stock and $384 in cash. As of September 30, 2006, there was a total of $704
of unrecognized compensation expense associated with 66,234 Unit awards that are expected to be
recognized over a weighted average period of 1.7 years. At September 30, 2006, total liabilities of
$1,118 associated with Unit awards are reflected in other current liabilities and other noncurrent
liabilities in the Condensed Balance Sheet.

The following table illustrates the number of unvested Unit awards:

Environmental and Other Legal Matters 

We accrue environmental investigation and cleanup costs when it is probable that a liability exists
and the amount or range of amounts can be reasonably estimated. Amounts accrued generally reflect
our best estimate of costs expected to be incurred or the minimum liability associated with a

F-14

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

range
of expected environmental response costs. Our estimated liability for environmental contamination
is reduced to reflect anticipated participation of other responsible parties but is not reduced for
possible recovery from insurance carriers. In those instances for which the amount and timing of
cash payments associated with environmental investigation and cleanup are reliably determinable, we
discount such liabilities to reflect the time value of money. We intend to pursue recovery of any
incurred costs through all appropriate means, including regulatory relief. UGI Gas is permitted to
amortize as removal costs site-specific environmental investigation and remediation costs, net of
related third-party payments, associated with Pennsylvania sites. UGI Gas is currently permitted to
include in rates, through future base rate proceedings, a five-year average of such prudently
incurred removal costs. In accordance with existing regulatory practice at the PUC, site-specific
environmental investigation and remediation costs associated with PNG Gas are amortized as removal
costs over a five-year period. At September 30, 2006, neither the Company s undiscounted amount
nor its accrued liability for environmental investigation and cleanup costs was material.

Similar to environmental issues, we accrue investigation and other legal costs for other matters
when it is probable that a liability exists and the amount or range of amounts can be reasonably
estimated (see Note 9).

Derivative Instruments 

SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  ( SFAS 133 ), as
amended, establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and for hedging
activities. It requires that all derivative instruments be recognized as either assets or
liabilities and measured at fair value. The accounting for changes in fair value depends upon the
purpose of the derivative instrument and whether it is designated and qualifies for hedge
accounting. For a detailed description of the derivative instruments we use, our objectives for
using them, and related supplemental information required by SFAS 133, see Note 10.

Comprehensive Income 

Comprehensive income comprises net income and other comprehensive income (loss). Other
comprehensive income (loss) of $(4,037), $1,698 and $594 for the years ended September 30, 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively, is the result of gains or losses on interest rate protection
agreements ( IRPAs ) and changes in the fair value of an electric price swap agreement qualifying
as cash flow hedges, net of reclassifications to net income.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued SFAS No. 158,
 Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment
of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R),  ( SFAS 158 ). SFAS 158 requires an employer to
recognize the funded status of each of its defined pension and postretirement benefit plans as a
net asset or liability in its balance sheet with an offsetting amount in accumulated other
comprehensive income, and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which changes
occur through comprehensive income. SFAS 158 is effective as of the end of our fiscal year ending
September 30, 2007. Had SFAS 158 been applied to our

F-15

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

September 30,
2006 Consolidated Balance Sheet, we estimate
that the impact would have resulted in a reduction of long-term assets of $19,300, an increase of
long-term liabilities of $23,900, a net reduction of deferred tax liabilities of $17,900 and a
reduction of stockholder s equity of $25,300. However, the effect at any future date could
significantly differ depending on the measurement of our pension and other postretirement benefit
plan assets and obligations at that date.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements,  ( SFAS 157 ). SFAS 157
defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted
accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The provisions of
this standard apply to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value
measurements. The provisions of SFAS 157 are effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1,
2008. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, of the provisions of SFAS 157.

In September 2006, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 108  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements in Current Year Financial
Statements  ( SAB 108 ). SAB 108 provides interpretive guidance on how the effects of the carryover
or reversal of prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying a current year
misstatement. The provisions of SAB 108 are effective for the end of our fiscal year ending
September 30, 2007.

In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48 ( FIN 48 ),  Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes,  which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the
financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  FIN
48 provides guidance on the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken
or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition,
classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosures, and transition.
FIN 48 is effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2007. We are currently evaluating the
impact that this standard will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

2. ACQUISITION OF PG ENERGY 

On August 24, 2006, UGI Utilities acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of SU s
PG Energy Division, a natural gas distribution business located in northeastern Pennsylvania, and
all of the issued and outstanding stock of SU s wholly-owned subsidiary, PG Energy Services, Inc.
pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement, as amended, between SU and UGI dated as of January 26,
2006 (the  Agreement ). Immediately prior to the PG Energy Acquisition, UGI assigned its rights
and obligations under the Agreement to UGI Utilities  newly formed subsidiary, UGIPNG. The PG
Energy Acquisition increased UGI Utilities  presence in northeastern Pennsylvania by adding
approximately 158,000 natural gas customers. We expect to obtain operating and financial synergies
as we integrate PNG Gas with our existing operations over time.

Under the terms of the Agreement, on August 24, 2006, the Company paid SU the acquisition price of
$580,000 (excluding transaction fees and expenses) which amount is subject to working capital
adjustments. The cash payment of $580,000 was funded with the net proceeds from the

F-16

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

issuance of
$275,000 of UGI Utilities  bank loans under a Credit Agreement dated as of August 18, 2006 (the
 Bridge Loan ), cash capital contributions from UGI of $265,000 and $40,000 from borrowings under
UGI Utilities  revolving credit agreement. In September 2006, UGI Utilities repaid amounts
outstanding under the Bridge Loan with the proceeds from the issuance of $175,000 of 5.753% Senior
Notes due 2016 and $100,000 of 6.206% Senior Notes due 2036.

The assets and liabilities of the PG Energy Acquisition are included in our Consolidated Balance
Sheet at September 30, 2006. The operating results of PNG Gas are included in our consolidated
results beginning August 24, 2006. The preliminary purchase price allocation has not been
finalized because we are still in the process of reviewing and determining the fair value of
certain of PNG Gas  assets acquired and liabilities assumed, principally working capital
adjustments and amounts associated with environmental related liabilities. The purchase price is
subject to a working capital adjustment, pursuant to the Agreement, equal to the difference between
an estimated $68,100 and the actual working capital as of the closing date agreed to by both UGIPNG
and SU.

The preliminary purchase price of PNG Gas, including estimated transaction fees and expenses of
$9,800, has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as follows:

Substantially all of the estimated goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax
purposes over a fifteen-year period.

The following table presents unaudited pro forma income statement data for the years ended
September 30, 2006 and 2005 as if the acquisition of PNG Gas had occurred as of the beginning of
those periods:

The pro forma results of operations reflect PNG Gas  historical operating results after
giving effect to adjustments directly attributable to the transaction that are expected to have a
continuing effect. The pro forma amounts are not necessarily indicative of the operating results
that would have occurred had the PG Energy Acquisition been completed as of the date indicated,
nor are they necessarily indicative of future operating results. The unaudited pro forma net
income for the twelve months ended September 30, 2006 includes a writedown of goodwill of $98,000
recorded by SU during the three months ended December 31, 2005.

F-17

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Pursuant to the Agreement, SU and UGIPNG entered into a Transition Services Agreement ( TSA )
whereby each party will be a provider and receiver of certain services to the other. The principal
services include general business continuity, information technology, accounting and tax services.
Services under the TSA will be provided through the expiration of the term relating to each
service or until such time as mutually agreed by UGIPNG and SU.

3. REGULATORY ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AND REGULATORY MATTERS 

The following regulatory assets and liabilities are included in our accompanying balance sheets at
September 30:

The Company s regulatory liabilities relating to postretirement benefits are included in
 other noncurrent liabilities  on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company does not recover a
rate of return on its regulatory assets.

Prior to the PG Energy Acquisition, on April 13, 2006, an application was filed with the PUC
seeking an increase in base rates. In an order entered on November 30, 2006, the PUC approved a
settlement of the base rate proceeding of PG Energy (PNG Gas). The settlement provides for an
increase in natural gas distribution base rates of $12,500 annually or approximately 4%, effective
December 2, 2006. In addition, the settlement provides PNG Gas the ability to recover up to $1,000
of additional corporate franchise tax through the state tax adjustment surcharge mechanism.

F-18

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

4. DEBT 

Long-term debt comprises the following at September 30:

The only principal repayment of long-term debt due during the next five fiscal years ending
September 30 is $20,000 of 7.17% Medium-Term Notes due June 2007.

UGI Utilities has a revolving credit agreement ( Credit Agreement ) with banks providing for
borrowings of up to $350,000. This agreement is currently scheduled to expire in August 2007, but
may be automatically extended by UGI Utilities to August 2011.
Under this agreement, UGI Utilities may borrow at various prevailing interest rates, including
LIBOR and the banks  prime rate. UGI Utilities pays quarterly facility fees on this credit line.
UGI Utilities had revolving credit agreement borrowings totaling $216,000 at September 30, 2006 and
$11,200 at September 30, 2005 which we classify as bank loans. UGI Utilities from time to time has
entered into short-term borrowings under uncommitted arrangements with major banks in order to meet
liquidity needs. Such borrowings are also classified as bank loans. At September 30, 2005, we had
two separate $35,000 borrowings outstanding under uncommitted arrangements with major banks.
Scheduled repayments of these borrowings were made in February and March 2006. The
weighted-average interest rates on our bank loans outstanding were 5.58% at September 30, 2006 and
4.41% at September 30, 2005.

UGI Utilities  Credit Agreement requires UGI Utilities to maintain a maximum ratio of Consolidated
Debt to Consolidated Total Capital, as defined, of 0.65 to 1.00.

F-19

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

5. INCOME TAXES 

The provisions for income taxes consist of the following:

A reconciliation from the statutory federal tax rate to our effective tax rate is as follows:

F-20

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Deferred tax liabilities (assets) comprise the following at September 30:

The Company had recorded deferred tax liabilities of approximately $40,445 as of September 30,
2006 and $37,270 as of September 30, 2005 pertaining to utility temporary differences, principally
a result of accelerated tax depreciation for state income tax purposes, the tax benefits of which
previously were or will be flowed through to ratepayers. These deferred tax liabilities have been
reduced by deferred tax assets of $2,823 at September 30, 2006 and $2,985 at September 30, 2005,
pertaining to utility deferred investment tax credits. We had recorded regulatory income tax assets
related to these net deferred taxes of $64,304 at September 30, 2006 and $58,601 at September 30,
2005. These regulatory income tax assets represent future revenues expected to be recovered
through the ratemaking process. We will recognize this regulatory income tax asset in deferred tax
expense as the corresponding temporary differences reverse and additional income taxes are
incurred.

6. EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLANS 

Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans 

The Company sponsors two defined benefit pension plans for employees of UGI Utilities, UGIPNG, UGI, and
certain of UGI s other wholly owned subsidiaries. In addition, we provide postretirement health
care benefits to certain of our retirees and a limited number of active employees, and
postretirement life insurance benefits to nearly all active and retired employees. As a result of
the PG Energy Acquisition, we acquired the pension assets and assumed the pension liabilities
related to the Employees  Retirement Plan of Southern Union Company Pennsylvania Division (the
 Division Plan ).

F-21

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

The following provides a reconciliation of projected benefit obligations, plan assets and funded
status of the plans as of September 30:

Net pension expense is determined using assumptions as of the beginning of each fiscal year
and, in the case of UGIPNG s pension and postretirement benefits, as of August 31, 2006. Funded
status is determined using assumptions as of the end of each fiscal year. The expected rate of
return on assets assumption is based on the rates of return for certain asset classes and the
allocation of plan assets among those asset classes as well as actual historic long-term rates of
return on our plan assets.

Included in the end of year pension benefit obligations above are $26,384 at September 30, 2006 and
$26,223 at September 30, 2005 relating to employees of UGI and certain of its other subsidiaries.
Included in the end of year other postretirement obligations above
are $763 at September 30, 2006
and $751 at September 30, 2005 relating to employees of UGI and certain of its other subsidiaries.

F-22

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Net periodic pension expense and other postretirement benefit costs relating to the Company s
employees include the following components:

Pension plan assets associated with our two defined benefit pension plans are held in trust.
Although the projected benefit obligations of these plans exceeded plan assets at September 30,
2006 and 2005, plan assets exceeded accumulated benefit obligations by $5,928 and $7,404,
respectively. The Company did not make any contributions to its pension plans in 2006, 2005 or 2004
and does not believe that it will be required to make any contributions during the year ending
September 30, 2007 for ERISA funding purposes.

Pursuant to orders issued by the PUC, UGI Utilities has established a Voluntary Employees 
Beneficiary Association ( VEBA ) trust to fund the UGI Utilities  postretirement benefit
obligations and to pay retiree health care and life insurance benefits by depositing into the VEBA
the annual amount of postretirement benefits costs determined under SFAS No. 106,  Employers
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions  ( SFAS 106 ). The difference between
such amounts calculated under SFAS 106 and the amounts included in UGI Gas  and Electric Utility s
rates is deferred for future recovery from, or refund to, ratepayers. Effective July 1, 2005,
substantially all retirees and their beneficiaries participating in the UGI Utilities 
postretirement benefit program were enrolled in insured Medicare Advantage plans. As a result of
this change, net benefit cost declined for periods subsequent to July 1, 2005. The Company s
estimated required contribution to the VEBA during the year ending September 30, 2007 is not
expected to be material.

F-23

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Expected payments for pension benefits and other postretirement welfare benefits are as follows:

In accordance with our investment strategy to obtain long-term growth, our target asset
allocations are to maintain a mix of 60% equities and the remainder in fixed income funds or cash
equivalents. The target and actual allocations for our defined benefit pension plans and VEBA
trust assets at September 30 are as follows:

UGI Common Stock comprised approximately 7% and 11% of pension plan trust assets at September
30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The assumed health care cost trend rates are 10% for fiscal 2007, decreasing to 5.5% in fiscal
2012. A one percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase
(decrease) the 2006 postretirement benefit cost and obligation as follows:

We also sponsor an unfunded and non-qualified supplemental executive retirement income plan.
At September 30, 2006 and 2005, the projected benefit obligations of this plan were $3,250 and
$2,700, respectively. We recorded expense for this plan of $522 in 2006, $439 in 2005 and $460 in
2004.

Defined Contribution Plans 

We sponsor a 401(k) savings plan for eligible employees ( Utilities Savings Plan ). Generally,
participants in the Utilities Savings Plan may contribute a portion of their compensation on a
before-tax and after-tax basis. We may, at our discretion, match a portion of participants 
contributions. The cost of benefits under the savings plan totaled $918 in 2006, $931 in 2005, and
$915 in 2004.

F-24

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

7. INVENTORIES 

Inventories comprise the following at September 30:

Included in utility fuel and gases inventories are amounts associated with the UGI Gas 
Storage Contract Administration Agreement ( Storage Agreement ) with Energy Services, Inc. ( Energy
Services ), a wholly owned subsidiary of UGI .  For a detailed description of the Storage Agreement
and the accounting for such inventories, see Note 13.

8. SERIES PREFERRED STOCK 

We have 2,000,000 shares of Series Preferred Stock, including both series subject to and series not
subject to mandatory redemption, authorized for issuance. We had no shares of Series Preferred
Stock outstanding at September 30, 2006.

On October 1, 2004, we redeemed all 200,000 shares of our $7.75 Series Preferred Stock at a price
of $100 per share together with full cumulative dividends. The redemption on October 1, 2004 was
funded with proceeds from the October 2004 issuance of $20,000 of 6.13% Medium-Term Notes due
October 2034.

9. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

We lease various buildings and transportation, computer and office equipment and other facilities
under operating leases. Certain of our leases contain renewal and purchase options and also contain
escalation clauses. Our aggregate rental expense for such leases was $5,025 in 2006, $4,703 in
2005, and $4,431 in 2004.

Minimum future payments under operating leases that have initial or remaining noncancelable terms
in excess of one year for the fiscal years ending September 30 are as follows: 2007   $4,247; 2008
- - $3,215; 2009   $2,054; 2010   $1,542; 2011   $1,135; after 2011-$2,459.

Gas Utility has gas supply agreements with producers and marketers with terms not exceeding one
year. Gas Utility also has agreements for firm pipeline transportation and natural gas storage
service which Gas Utility may terminate at various dates through 2017. Gas Utility s costs
associated with transportation and storage service agreements are included in its annual PGC
filing with the PUC and are recoverable through PGC rates. In addition, Gas Utility has short-term
gas supply agreements which permit it to purchase certain of its gas supply needs on a firm or
interruptible basis at spot-market prices.

F-25

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Electric Utility purchases its capacity requirements and electric energy needs under contracts with
various suppliers and on the spot market. Contracts with producers for capacity and energy needs
expire at various dates through fiscal 2011.

Future contractual cash obligations under Gas Utility and Electric Utility supply, storage and
service agreements existing at September 30, 2006 are as follows: 2007   $367,174; 2008   $157,125;
2009   $144,524; 2010   $83,989; 2011   $46,445; after 2011   $86,891.

From the late 1800s through the mid-1900s, UGI Utilities and its former subsidiaries owned and
operated a number of manufactured gas plants ( MGPs ) prior to the general availability of natural
gas. Some constituents of coal tars and other residues of the manufactured gas process are today
considered hazardous substances under the Superfund Law and may be present on the sites of former
MGPs. Between 1882 and 1953, UGI Utilities owned the stock of subsidiary gas companies in
Pennsylvania and elsewhere and also operated the businesses of some gas companies under agreement.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, UGI Utilities
divested all of its utility operations other than those which now constitute UGI Gas and Electric
Utility.

UGI Utilities does not expect its costs for investigation and remediation of hazardous substances
at Pennsylvania MGP sites to be material to its results of operations because UGI Gas is currently
permitted to include in rates, through future base rate proceedings, prudently incurred remediation
costs associated with such sites. In accordance with existing regulatory practices of the PUC, PNG
Gas amortizes as removal costs over a five-year period site-specific environmental investigation
and remediation costs.

As a result of the PG Energy Acquisition by our wholly-owned subsidiary, UGIPNG, UGIPNG became a
party to a Multi-Site Remediation Consent Order and Agreement between PG Energy and the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection dated March 31, 2004 ( Multi-Site Agreement ).
The Multi-Site Agreement requires UGIPNG to perform a specified level of activities associated with
environmental investigation and remediation work at eleven currently owned properties on which
MGP-related facilities were operated ( Properties ). UGIPNG is not required to spend more than
$1,100 in any calendar year for such expenditures, including costs to perform work on the
Properties. Costs related to investigation and remediation of one property formerly owned by
UGIPNG are also included in this cap. The Multi-Site Agreement terminates at the end of fifteen
years but may be terminated by either party at the end of any two-year period beginning with the
effective date.

UGI Utilities has been notified of several sites outside Pennsylvania on which private parties
allege MGPs were formerly owned or operated by it or owned or operated by its former subsidiaries.
Such parties are investigating the extent of environmental contamination or performing
environmental remediation. UGI Utilities is currently litigating four claims against it relating
to out-of-state sites. We accrue environmental investigation and cleanup costs when it is probable
that a liability exists and the amount or range of amounts can be reasonably estimated.

Management believes that under applicable law UGI Utilities should not be liable in those instances
in which a former subsidiary owned or operated an MGP. There could be, however, significant future
costs of an uncertain amount associated with environmental damage caused by

F-26

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

MGPs outside
Pennsylvania that UGI Utilities directly operated, or that were owned or operated by former
subsidiaries of UGI Utilities, if a court were to conclude that (1) the subsidiary s separate
corporate form should be disregarded or (2) UGI Utilities should be considered to have been an
operator because of its conduct with respect to its subsidiary s MGP.

On September 22, 2006, South Carolina Electric   Gas Company ( SCE G ), a subsidiary of SCANA
Corporation filed a lawsuit against UGI Utilities in the District Court of South Carolina seeking
contribution from UGI Utilities for past and future remediation costs related to the operations of
a former MGP located in Charleston, South Carolina. SCE G asserts that the plant operated from
1855 to 1954 and alleges that UGI Utilities controlled operations of the plant from 1910 to 1926
and is liable for 47% of the costs associated with the site. SCE G assets that it has spent
approximately $22,000 in remediation costs and $26,000 in third-party claims relating to the site
and estimates that future remediation costs could be as high as $2,500. SCE G further asserts that
it has received a demand from the United States Justice Department for natural resource damages.
UGI Utilities believes that it has good defenses to this claim and is defending the suit.

In April 2003, Citizens Communications Company ( Citizens ) served a complaint naming UGI Utilities
as a third-party defendant in a civil action pending in the United States District for the District
of Maine. In that action, the plaintiff, City of Bangor, Maine ( City ) sued Citizens to recover
environmental response costs associated with MGP wastes generated at a plant allegedly operated by
Citizens  predecessors at a site on the Penobscot River. Citizens subsequently joined UGI
Utilities and ten other third-party defendants alleging that the third-party defendants are
responsible for an equitable share of costs Citizens may be required to pay to the City for
cleaning up tar deposits in the Penobscot River. Citizens alleges that UGI Utilities and its
predecessors owned and operated the plant from 1901 to 1928. Studies conducted by the City and
Citizens suggest that it could cost up to $18,000 to clean up the river. Citizens  third party
claims have been stayed pending a resolution of the City s suit against Citizens, which was tried
in September 2005. Maine s Department of Environmental Protection ( DEP ) informed UGI Utilities
in March 2005 that it considers UGI Utilities to be a potentially responsible party for costs
incurred by the State of Maine related to gas plant contaminants at this site. On June 27, 2006,
the court issued an order finding Citizens responsible for 60% of the cleanup costs. The amount of
Citizens  liability has not been finally determined. The court has stayed further proceedings
while the City and Citizens discuss settlement. UGI Utilities believes that it has good defenses
to Citizens  claim and to any claim that the DEP may bring to recover its costs, and is defending
the Citizens  suit.

By letter dated July 29, 2003, Atlanta Gas Light Company ( AGL ) served UGI Utilities with a
complaint filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida in which AGL
alleges that UGI Utilities is responsible for 20% of approximately $8,000 incurred by AGL in the
investigation and remediation of a former MGP site in St. Augustine, Florida. UGI Utilities
formerly owned stock of the St. Augustine Gas Company, the owner and operator of the MGP. On March
22, 2005, the trial court granted UGI Utilities  motion for summary judgment.
AGL appealed and on September 6, 2006, the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the trial
court s entry of summary judgment, effectively terminating the case.

F-27

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

AGL previously informed UGI Utilities that it was investigating contamination that appeared to be
related to MGP operations at a site owned by AGL in Savannah, Georgia. A former subsidiary of UGI
Utilities operated the MGP in the early 1900s. AGL has informed UGI Utilities that it has begun
remediation of MGP wastes at the site and believes that the total cost of remediation could be as
high as $55,000. AGL has not filed suit against UGI Utilities for a share of these costs. UGI
Utilities believes that it will have good defenses to any action that may arise out of this site.

On September 20, 2001, Consolidated Edison Company of New York ( ConEd ) filed suit against UGI
Utilities in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, seeking
contribution from UGI Utilities for an allocated share of response costs associated with
investigating and assessing gas plant related contamination at former MGP sites in Westchester
County, New York. The complaint alleges that UGI Utilities  owned and operated  the MGPs prior to
1904. The complaint also seeks a declaration that UGI Utilities is responsible for an allocated
percentage of future investigative and remedial costs at the sites. ConEd believes that the cost of
remediation for all of the sites could exceed $70,000.

The trial court granted UGI Utilities  motion for summary judgment and dismissed ConEd s complaint.
The grant of summary judgment was entered April 1, 2004. ConEd appealed and on September 9, 2005 a
panel of the Second Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed in part the decision of
the trial court. The appellate panel affirmed the trial court s decision dismissing claims that UGI
Utilities was liable under CERCLA as an operator of MGPs owned and operated by its former
subsidiaries. The appellate panel reversed the trial court s decision that UGI Utilities was
released from liability at three sites where UGI Utilities operated MGPs under lease. On October 7,
2005, UGI Utilities filed for reconsideration of the panel s order which was denied by the Second
Circuit Court of Appeals on January 17, 2006. On April 14, 2006, UGI Utilities filed a petition
requesting that the United States Supreme Court review the decision of the Second Circuit Court of
Appeals. On October 2, 2006, the Supreme Court entered an order inviting the Solicitor General to
file a brief expressing the views of the United States in this case.

By letter dated June 24, 2004, KeySpan Energy ( KeySpan ) informed UGI Utilities that KeySpan has
spent $2,300 and expects to spend another $11,000 to clean up an MGP site it owns in Sag Harbor,
New York. KeySpan believes that UGI Utilities is responsible for approximately 50% of these costs
as a result of UGI Utilities  alleged direct ownership and operation of the plant from 1885 to
1902. By letter dated June 6, 2006, KeySpan reported that the New York Department of Environmental
Conservation has approved a remedy for the site that is estimated to cost approximately $10,000.
KeySpan believes that the cost could be as high as $20,000. UGI Utilities is in the process of
reviewing the information provided by KeySpan and is investigating this claim.

On September 11, 2006, UGI Utilities  received a complaint filed by Yankee Gas Services Company and
Connecticut Light and Power Company, subsidiaries of Northeast Utilities, (together the  Northeast
Companies ) in the United States District Court for the District of
Connecticut seeking contribution from UGI Utilities for past and future remediation costs related
to MGP operations on thirteen sites owned by the Northeast Companies in nine cities in the State of
Connecticut. The Northeast Companies allege that UGI Utilities controlled operations of the

F-28

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

plants
from 1883 to 1941. The Northeast Companies estimated that remediation costs for all of the sites
would total approximately $215,000 and asserted that UGI Utilities is responsible for approximately
$103,000 of this amount. Based on information supplied by the Northeast Companies and UGI
Utilities  own investigation, UGI Utilities believes that it may have operated one of the sites,
Waterbury North, under lease for a portion of its operating history. UGI Utilities is reviewing
the Northeast Companies  estimate that remediation costs at Waterbury North could total $23,000.
UGI Utilities believes that it has good defenses to this claim and is defending the suit.

In addition to these environmental matters, there are other pending claims and legal actions
arising in the normal course of our businesses. We cannot predict with certainty the final results
of environmental and other matters. However, it is reasonably possible that some of them could be
resolved unfavorably to us and result in losses in excess of recorded amounts. We are unable to
estimate any possible losses in excess of recorded amounts. Although we currently believe, after
consultation with counsel, that damages or settlements, if any, recovered by the plaintiffs in such
claims or actions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, damages or
settlements could be material to our operating results or cash flows in future periods depending on
the nature and timing of future developments with respect to these matters and the amounts of
future operating results and cash flows.

10. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 

In accordance with its commodity hedging policy, the Company has entered into (1) natural gas call
option and futures contracts to reduce volatility in the cost of gas it purchases for its firm-
residential, commercial and industrial ( retail core-market ) customers and (2) an electric price
swap agreement to reduce the volatility in the cost of anticipated electricity requirements.
Because costs of the natural gas call option and futures contracts and associated gains and losses
resulting from these contracts are included in our PGC recovery mechanism, as these contracts are
recorded at fair value in accordance with SFAS 133, any gains or losses are deferred for future
refund to or recovery from Gas Utility s ratepayers through the PGC recovery mechanism. We have
designated the electric price swap as a cash flow hedge under SFAS 133.

We are a party to a number of contracts that have elements of a derivative instrument. These
contracts include, among others, binding purchase orders, contracts which provide for the purchase
and delivery of natural gas and electricity, and service contracts that require the counterparty to
provide commodity storage, transportation or capacity service to meet our normal sales commitments.
Although many of these contracts have the requisite elements of a derivative instrument, these
contracts are not subject to the accounting requirements of SFAS 133, as amended, because they
provide for the delivery of products or services in quantities that are expected to be used in the
normal course of operating our business or the value of the contract is directly associated with
the price or value of a service.

We enter into IRPAs in order to manage interest rate risk associated with planned issuances of
fixed-rate long-term debt. We designate these IRPAs as cash flow hedges. Gains or losses on
IRPAs are included in other comprehensive income and are reclassified to interest expense as the
interest expense on the associated debt affects earnings.

F-29

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

During 2006, 2005 and 2004, there were no gains or losses recognized in earnings as a result of
hedge ineffectiveness or as a result of excluding a portion of a derivative instrument s gain or
loss from the assessment of hedge effectiveness, and there were no gains or losses recognized in
earnings as a result of a hedged firm commitment no longer qualifying as a fair value hedge. At
September 30, 2006, our unsettled derivative contracts included in accumulated other comprehensive
income include our electric price swap agreement and one IRPA.

Gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at September 30, 2006
relating to cash flow hedges will be reclassified into (1) interest expense when interest on hedged
issuances of fixed-rate long-term debt is reflected in net income and (2) cost of sales when the
forecasted purchases of electricity subject to the hedge impact net income. Included in
accumulated other comprehensive income at September 30, 2006 are net after-tax losses of
approximately $6,838 associated with settled IRPAs and an unsettled IRPA associated with a
forecasted issuance of long-term debt anticipated to occur during fiscal year 2007. The amount of
net loss on IRPAs expected to be reclassified into net income during the next twelve months is
approximately $460. Also included in accumulated other comprehensive income at September 30, 2006
is an after-tax gain of $3,043 associated with our unsettled electric price swap agreement for
purchases of electricity anticipated to occur during 2007. The actual amount of gains or losses on
unsettled derivative instruments that ultimately is reclassified into net income will depend upon
the value of such derivative contracts when settled. The fair value of derivative instruments is
included in other current assets, other assets and other current liabilities in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets.

The carrying amounts of financial instruments included in current assets and current liabilities
(excluding unsettled derivatives and current maturities of long-term debt) approximate their fair
values because of their short-term nature.

The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our remaining financial instruments (including
unsettled derivative instruments) at September 30 are as follows:

We estimate the fair value of long-term debt by using current market prices and by discounting
future cash flows using rates available for similar type debt.

F-30

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

We have financial instruments such as trade accounts receivable which could expose us to
concentrations of credit risk. The credit risk from trade accounts receivable is limited because we
have a large customer base which extends across many different markets. At September 30, 2006 and
2005, we had no significant concentrations of credit risk.

11. SEGMENT INFORMATION 

We have determined that we have two reportable segments: (1) Gas Utility and (2) Electric Utility.
Gas Utility revenues are derived principally from the sale and distribution of natural gas to
customers in eastern and northeastern Pennsylvania. Electric Utility derives its revenues
principally from the sale and distribution of electricity in two northeastern Pennsylvania
counties.

The accounting policies of our reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 1. We
evaluate the performance of our Gas Utility and Electric Utility segments principally based upon
their income before income taxes.

No single customer represents more than ten percent of our consolidated revenues and there are no
significant intersegment transactions. In addition, all of our reportable segments  revenues are
derived from sources within the United States, and all of our reportable segments  long-lived
assets are located in the United States.

F-31

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Financial information by business segment follows:

F-32

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

12. OTHER INCOME, NET 

Other income, net, comprises the following:

13. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 

UGI provides certain financial and administrative services to UGI Utilities. UGI bills UGI
Utilities monthly for all direct and for an allocated share of indirect corporate expenses incurred
or paid on behalf of UGI Utilities. These billed expenses are classified as operating and
administrative expenses   related parties in the Consolidated Statements of Income. In addition,
UGI Utilities provides limited administrative services to UGI and certain of UGI s subsidiaries,
principally payroll related services. Amounts billed to these entities by UGI Utilities for all
periods presented were not material.

Effective December 1, 2004, following a competitive bidding process, UGI Utilities entered into a
Storage Contract Administrative Agreement ( Storage Agreement ) with UGI Energy Services, Inc., a
second-tier wholly owned subsidiary of UGI ( Energy Services ). The Storage Agreement was
initially scheduled to expire on October 31, 2005, but effective November 1, 2005, UGI Utilities
and Energy Services agreed to extend the Storage Agreement through October 31, 2008. Under the
Storage Agreement, Energy Services provides a firm natural gas delivery service to UGI Utilities.
UGI Utilities has released certain gas transportation and storage contracts through October 31,
2008 and transferred associated gas storage inventories to Energy Services. UGI Utilities may
recall such released transportation and storage contracts without penalty if recalled to meet
operational requirements, and if not recalled, the releases will terminate at the end of the term
of the Storage Agreement. In the event that released contracts are recalled or at the expiration
of the Storage Agreement, Energy Services is required to transfer associated gas storage
inventories to UGI Utilities. In exchange for the ability to utilize these
assets, Energy Services pays a monthly fee to UGI Utilities and provides a firm natural gas
delivery service to UGI Utilities. During 2006 and 2005, UGI Utilities incurred costs associated
with purchases of natural gas storage inventories from Energy Services and incurred associated
pipeline transportation and storage capacity charges pursuant to the Storage Agreement totaling
$85,839 and $80,745, respectively.

UGI Utilities reflects the historical cost of the gas storage inventories and any exchange
receivable from Energy Services (representing amounts of natural gas inventories used but not yet
replenished by Energy Services) on its balance sheet under the caption  Inventories.  The carrying
value of these gas storage inventories at September 30, 2006, comprising approximately 8.4 billion
cubic feet of natural gas, was $71,290. The carrying value of these gas storage inventories at
September 30, 2005, comprising approximately 8.1 billion cubic feet of natural gas, was $63,004.

F-33

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

UGI Utilities has a Gas Supply and Delivery Service Agreement with Energy Services pursuant to
which Energy Services provides certain gas supply and related delivery service to Gas Utility
during the peak heating-season months of November to March. In addition, from time to time, Gas
Utility purchases natural gas or pipeline capacity from Energy Services. The aggregate amount of
these transactions (exclusive of Storage Agreement transactions) during 2006, 2005 and 2004 totaled
$15,114, $8,491 and $6,257, respectively.

From time to time, the Company sells natural gas or pipeline capacity to Energy Services. During
2006, 2005 and 2004, revenues associated with sales to Energy Services totaled $14,080, $4,249, and
$1,698, respectively. These transactions did not have a material effect on the Company s financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

14. QUARTERLY DATA (unaudited) 

The following quarterly information includes all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring
adjustments), which we consider necessary for a fair presentation of such information. Quarterly
results fluctuate because of the seasonal nature of the Company s businesses.

F-34

Table of Contents   

UGI UTILITIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SCHEDULE II     VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

(Thousands of dollars)

(1) 
       
      Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries.

(2) 
       
      Acquisition

(3) 
       
      Payments, net

(4) 
       
      Includes reserves for self-insured property and casualty liability, insured property and casualty liability,
environmental, litigation and other.

S-1 

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

Exhibit No.  
       
      Description  

12.1

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

23

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

31.1

Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act 

31.2

Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act 

32

Certification by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 

<EX-12.1>
 2
 c70103exv12w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.1

Exhibit 12.1 

UGI UTILITIES INC. 
COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES   EXHIBIT 12.1 
(Thousands of dollars) 

</EX-12.1>

<EX-23>
 3
 c70103exv23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 23 

EXHIBIT 23 

 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

 We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-124474) and Form
S-4 (No. 333-137626) of UGI Utilities, Inc. of our report dated
December 8, 2006 relating to the financial statements,
financial statement schedule, management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.

 /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 
Philadelphia, PA
 
December 8, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 c70103exv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATION 

I, David W. Trego, certify that:

1. 
       
      I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of UGI Utilities, Inc.;

2. 
       
      Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this annual report;

3. 
       
      Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;

4. 
       
      The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a) 
       
      Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared;

(b) 
       
      Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;

(c) 
       
      Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and

(d) 
       
      Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and

5. 
       
      The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors:

(a) 
       
      All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and

(b) 
       
      Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.

Date:
December 8, 2006

/s/ David W. Trego

David W. Trego  

President and Chief Executive Officer of
UGI Utilities, Inc.  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 c70103exv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

CERTIFICATION 

I, John C. Barney, certify that:

1. 
       
      I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of UGI Utilities, Inc.;

2. 
       
      Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this annual report;

3. 
       
      Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;

4. 
       
      The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a) 
       
      Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared;

(b) 
       
      Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;

(c) 
       
      Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and

(d) 
       
      Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and

5. 
       
      The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors:

(a) 
       
      All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and

(b) 
       
      Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.

Date:
December 8, 2006

/s/ John C. Barney

John C. Barney  

Senior Vice President - Finance and
Chief Financial Officer of
UGI Utilities, Inc.  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 6
 c70103exv32.htm
 EXHIBIT 32

Exhibit 32 

EXHIBIT 32 

Certification by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer 
Relating to a Periodic Report Containing Financial Statements 

I, David W. Trego, Chief Executive Officer, and I, John C. Barney, Chief Financial Officer, of
UGI Utilities, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the  Company ), hereby certify that to our
knowledge:

(1) 
       
      The Company s periodic report on Form 10-K for the period ended September 30,
2006 (the  Form 10-K ) containing the financial statements fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and

(2) 
       
      The information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

*       *       *

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 

/s/ David W. Trego

/s/ John C. Barney 

David W. Trego

John C. Barney 

Date: December 8, 2006

Date: December 8, 2006 

</EX-32>

