<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061214_10-K_edgar_data_16040_0001104659-06-081572_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>4903967</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>408259</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3032146</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>97</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-081572.hdr.sgml : 20061214
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061214165440
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-081572
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061214
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061214

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CABOT CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000016040
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCTS [2890]
		IRS NUMBER:				042271897
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-05667
		FILM NUMBER:		061277718

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		TWO SEAPORT LANE SUITE 1300
		CITY:			BOSTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02109-1806
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6173450100

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		TWO SEAPORT LANE SUITE 1300
		CITY:			BOSTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			82109

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CABOT GODFREY L INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19680418

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Khy/KDUKSKisdgHMczBcAC7mRayZ4+ZI0eRPbfx9jDv06ZasRG4u4ci3pH405ZMK
 belaP4CZJ5V7RwULkNCBTA==

 0001104659-06-081572.txt : 20061214

10-K
 1
 a06-25226_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington,
D.C. 20549   

   Form 10-K   

   x                                  ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934 

                                                    For
the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006  

   or   

   o                                     TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934 

                                                    For
the transition period from                         
to

Commission
file number 1-5667   

   Cabot Corporation   

   (Exact name of Registrant as
specified in its charter)   

Delaware  

04-2271897   

(State
  or other jurisdiction of   

(I.R.S.
  Employer   

incorporation
  or organization)   

Identification
  No.)   

Two Seaport Lane, Suite 1300   

Boston,
  Massachusetts   

02210   

(Address
  of Principal Executive Offices)   

(Zip
  Code)   

(617) 345-0100   

    (Registrant s telephone number,
including area code)    

   Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of Each Class   

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered   

Common stock,
  $1.00 par value per share  

Boston Stock
  Exchange  

New York Stock
  Exchange  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act. Yes    x     No    o  

  Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes    o     No     x  

  Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes    x     No      o  

  Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of the Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.      o  

  Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act.  

  Large accelerated filer    x        Accelerated filer    o        Non-accelerated filer    o  

  Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act).  Yes    o     No
  x  

  As of the last business day of the Registrant s most
recently completed second fiscal quarter (March 31, 2006), the aggregate
market value of the Registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates was
approximately $2,092,490,000. As of December 5, 2006, there were
64,096,052 shares of the Registrant s Common Stock outstanding.  

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE     

  Portions
of the Registrant s definitive Proxy Statement for its 2007 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III of this annual
report on Form 10-K.  

TABLE
OF CONTENTS     

PART I 

ITEM 1 .   

Business   

1  

ITEM
  1A.    

Risk Factors   

13  

ITEM 1B.    

Unresolved Staff Comments   

17  

ITEM 2 .   

Properties   

18  

ITEM
  3.    

Legal
  Proceedings   

20  

ITEM 4.    

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

25  

PART II  

ITEM 5.    

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
  Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

27  

ITEM 6.    

Selected Financial Data   

28  

ITEM 7.    

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations   

30  

ITEM 7A.    

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
  Risk   

55  

ITEM 8.    

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

57  

ITEM 9.    

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
  Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

117  

ITEM 9A.    

Controls and Procedures   

117  

ITEM
  9B.    

Other
  Information   

118  

PART III  

ITEM 10.    

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

119  

ITEM 11.    

Executive Compensation   

119  

ITEM 12.    

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
  Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

119  

ITEM 13.    

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   

119  

ITEM 14.    

Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

119  

PART IV  

ITEM 15.    

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

120  

Signatures   

125  

Exhibit Index   

Information
Relating to Forward-Looking Statements     

  This report on Form 10-K contains  forward-looking
statements  under the Federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements
include statements relating to our future business performance and overall
prospects; demand for our products; utilization of new carbon black capacity in
China and the timing of commercial approvals of product produced at our new
rubber blacks unit in Maua, Brazil; growth in the inkjet colorants product line;
capacity utilization at our fumed metal oxides plants; development of our
aerogel product line; profitability of the Supermetals Business and our ability
to continue to realize benefits from our efforts to reduce the cost structure
in this Business; growth of our Specialty Fluids Business outside of the North
Sea; anticipated capital spending; cost reduction initiatives; cash
requirements and uses of available cash; exposure to interest rate and foreign
exchange risk; our expected tax rate for fiscal 2007; environmental matters;
and the possible outcome of legal proceedings. From time to time, we also
provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public
and in oral statements made by authorized officers.  

  Forward-looking statements are based on our current
expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about Cabot s businesses
and strategies, market trends and conditions, economic conditions and other
factors. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are
subject to risks, uncertainties, potentially inaccurate assumptions, and other
factors, some of which are beyond our control and difficult to predict. If
known or unknown risks materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
inaccurate, our actual results could differ materially from past results and
from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that
could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in our
forward-looking statements are described in Item 1A in this Annual Report.  

  We undertake no obligation
to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Investors
are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related
subjects in our 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the  SEC ).  

   PART I     

   Item 1.                             Business    

   General     

  Cabot s business was founded in 1882 and incorporated
in the State of Delaware in 1960. Cabot is a global specialty chemicals and
performance materials company headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts. Our
principal products are rubber blacks, performance products, inkjet colorants,
fumed metal oxides, aerogels, tantalum and related products, and cesium formate
drilling fluids. Cabot and its affiliates have manufacturing facilities in the
United States and more than 20 other countries. The terms  Cabot ,  Company ,  we ,
and  our  as used in this Report refer to Cabot Corporation and its
consolidated subsidiaries.  

  Our business strategy is based on two key principles:
optimizing our core businesses and product lines (rubber blacks, performance
products, fumed metal oxides and tantalum) and investing the cash and
intellectual resources they generate in new businesses and product lines
(inkjet colorants, cesium formate, aerogel and Superior MicroPowders).  

  Our new products and new businesses are generally
based on technical innovation in one or more of our three core competencies:
making and handling very fine particles; modifying the surfaces of very fine
particles to alter their functionality; and designing particles to impart
specific properties to a composite. We focus on creating particles with the
composition, morphology, surface functionalities and formulations to support
existing and emerging applications that improve a product s performance.  

1     

We are organized into four reportable segments: the
Carbon Black Business, the Metal Oxides Business, the Supermetals Business and
the Specialty Fluids Business. These businesses are discussed in more detail
later in this section. In addition, we also manage our businesses on a regional
basis and are organized into five business regions:   North America, South America, Europe, Asia
Pacific, and China. Financial information about our business segments and
geographic areas appears in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 below ( MD A ), and in Note U
of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 below. We adopted
our current segment reporting structure in fiscal 2005. Financial information
prior to fiscal 2005 has been conformed to reflect our current segment
reporting structure.  

  Our internet address is  www.cabot-corp.com.  We make available free of charge on or
through our internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K,
and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after
electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the SEC.  

   Carbon Black
Business     

  Carbon black is a form of
elemental carbon, which is manufactured in a highly controlled process to
produce particles and aggregates of varied structure and surface chemistry,
resulting in many different performance characteristics for a wide variety of
applications. Carbon black is widely used to enhance the physical, electrical
and optical properties of the systems and applications in which it is
incorporated. Manufactured to match customer needs and performance
requirements, carbon black is sold to diverse markets, including the
automotive, building materials, agricultural, coatings, toners, plastics,
inkjet printing and electronics markets. The Carbon Black Business is primarily
comprised of the rubber blacks, performance products and inkjet colorants
product lines. The Carbon Black Business also encompasses the business
development activities of Cabot Superior MicroPowders ( CSMP ).  

    Product Lines    

  Our rubber blacks products are used in tires and
industrial products. Rubber blacks have traditionally been used in the tire
industry as a rubber reinforcing agent and are also used as a performance
additive. In industrial products such as hoses, belts, extruded profiles and
molded goods, rubber blacks are used to improve the physical performance of the
product. In addition to the carbon black we make using conventional carbon
black manufacturing methods, we are developing elastomer composite products
(referred to as Cabot Elastomer Composites or  CEC ) that are compounds of
natural rubber and carbon black made by a patented liquid phase process. Our
CEC products are targeted primarily for tire and industrial rubber applications
because we believe these compounds improve wear resistance, reduce fatigue and
reduce rolling resistance compared to natural rubber/carbon black compounds
made by conventional methods.  

  Our performance products are specialized grades of
carbon blacks that are used to enhance conductivity and static charge control,
to provide UV protection, to enhance mechanical properties, to provide chemical
flexibility through surface treatment and as pigments. These products are used
in a wide variety of industries such as inks, coatings, cables, pipes, toners
and electronics. Our performance products include black and white thermoplastic
concentrates and specialty compounds that are marketed to the plastics
industry.  

  Our inkjet colorants are high-quality pigment-based
black and other colorant dispersions we manufacture by surface treating special
grades of carbon black and other pigments. Our black colorants have been used
in several inkjet printing systems introduced to the market since 1998, and the
expansion of our surface modification technology (small molecule attachment) to
other pigments permitted   

2     

commercialization of color
pigment dispersions during fiscal year 2002. The dispersions are used in
aqueous inkjet inks to impart color (optical density or chroma) with improved
durability (waterfastness, lightfastness, rub resistance) while maintaining
high printhead reliability. Cabot s inkjet colorants are produced for various
inkjet printing markets, including small office and home office, high-speed,
wide format, and commercial and industrial printing applications.  

  CSMP is a research and
development enterprise with multiple technology platforms and core competencies
in advanced powder manufacturing across a wide range of materials and the
related materials chemistries. Its principal areas of commercial focus are in
developing advanced materials for security applications (anti-counterfeiting
materials), fuel cell applications (portable, stationary and automotive),
catalysts, and for other fine particle markets. We also expect CSMP to provide
our other businesses with technology support to develop new technologies that
complement existing markets and provide opportunities for new business growth.  

    Sales, Customers
and Seasonality    

  Sales
of rubber blacks, performance products and inkjet colorants are made by Cabot
employees and through distributors and sales representatives. The amount of
sales for each product line and CSMP for each of the last three fiscal years is
set forth in the following table:  

Sales to three major tire customers represent a
material portion of the Carbon Black Business s total net sales and operating
revenues. The loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse
effect on the Carbon Black Business. In fiscal 2006, sales to The Goodyear Tire
and Rubber Company ( Goodyear ) amounted to 14% of Cabot s consolidated
revenues. We did not have sales during the fiscal year to any other customer in
an amount equal to or greater than 10% of Cabot s consolidated revenues for the
year.  

  Much of the carbon black we sell is used in automotive
products and, therefore, our financial results may be affected by the cyclical
nature of the automotive industry. However, a large portion of the market for
our products is in replacement tires and other parts that are less subject to automotive
industry cycles.  

  Under appropriate circumstances, we have pursued a
strategy of entering into annual and long-term supply contracts (those with an
initial term longer than one year) with certain customers. These contracts are
designed to provide our customers with a secure supply of carbon black and help
us reduce the volatility in our carbon black volumes and margins. Many of these
contracts provide for quarterly sales price adjustments to account for changes
in feedstock costs and, in some cases, changes in other relevant costs. We
currently have global long-term rubber blacks supply contracts with two major
tire customers. A portion of the supply arrangements with one of these
customers expires by its terms at the end of calendar year 2006. Negotiations
for a new supply arrangement with this customer, which began in 2005, continue.
In fiscal year 2006, approximately 54% of the volume of rubber blacks sold by
Cabot was sold under long-term contracts in effect during the fiscal year, and
approximately 13% was sold under annual contracts in effect during the fiscal
year. We currently sell performance products to seven customers pursuant to
long-  

3     

term supply contracts.
During fiscal year 2006, sales under long-term contracts accounted for
approximately 20% of the volume of performance products we sold.  

  Sales of inkjet colorants
are made to inkjet printer manufacturers and to suppliers of inkjet inks in the
inkjet cartridge aftermarket.  

    Competition    

  We are one of the leading manufacturers of rubber
blacks and performance products in the world, with an estimated one-quarter of
the aggregate worldwide production capacity for these products combined. Cabot
is also one of the five leading producers of thermoplastic concentrates in
Europe. We compete in the manufacture of rubber blacks and performance products
primarily with Columbian Chemicals Company and Degussa AG (both of which have a
global presence), and with at least 20 other companies in various regional
markets in which we operate, including the Aditya Birla Group of companies and
China Synthetic Rubber Corporation.  

  Our inkjet colorants are designed to replace
traditional pigment dispersions and dyes used in inkjet printing applications.
Competitive products for inkjet colorants are organic dyes and other dispersed
pigments manufactured and marketed by large chemical companies and small
independent producers.  

  Competition for products
within the Carbon Black Business is based on price, service, quality, product
performance and technical innovation. With respect to our rubber blacks and
performance products product lines, competition is also based upon the
proximity of our manufacturing operations to those of our customers.  

    Raw Materials    

  The principal raw material used in the manufacture of
carbon black is a portion of the residual heavy oils derived from petroleum
refining operations and from the distillation of coal tars and the production
of ethylene throughout the world. Natural gas is also used in the production of
carbon black. While the lack of availability of raw materials has not been a
significant factor for our rubber blacks or performance products product lines,
we may experience some difficulty obtaining low sulfur feedstock at an
acceptable cost for our European operations in the event the proposed Best
Available Techniques Reference Documents, which are commonly referred to as  BREF
Notes,  are adopted. The proposed BREF Note for the European carbon black
industry, which is described more fully under  Safety, Health and Environment 
below, calls for an annual average sulfur content in carbon black feedstock in
a range of 0.5% to 1.5%. Raw material costs generally are influenced by the
availability of various types of carbon black feedstock and natural gas, and
related transportation costs.  

  Other than carbon black feedstock, the primary
materials used for thermoplastic concentrates are titanium dioxide,
thermoplastic resins and mineral fillers. Raw materials for these concentrates
are, in general, readily available.  

  Raw materials for inkjet
colorants include carbon black sourced from our carbon black plants, organic
pigments and other treating agents available from various sources. We believe
that all raw materials to produce inkjet colorants are in adequate supply.  

    Operations    

  We own (or have a controlling interest in) and operate
plants that produce rubber blacks and/or performance products grades of carbon
black in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, the Czech Republic, the
United Kingdom, France, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, The Netherlands, and
the United States. Our affiliates own carbon black plants in Malaysia, Mexico
and Venezuela. Our thermoplastic concentrates and specialty compounds are
produced in facilities in Belgium, Italy, the United Kingdom   

4     

and China (Hong Kong).
Inkjet colorants are manufactured in the United States. Some of our plants are
built on leased land (see  Properties  below).  

  In October 2005, we ceased manufacturing
operations at our Altona, Australia plant. The decision to close the plant was
based on the decline in Australia s domestic carbon black market and the loss
of our feedstock supply in Australia.  

  Until November 2005, we had a 50:50 joint venture
arrangement with Showa Denko K.K. for the manufacture and supply of carbon
black in Japan through an entity called Showa Cabot K.K. On November 8, 2005,
we acquired Showa Denko K.K. s 50% joint venture interest in Showa Cabot K.K.
and renamed the entity Cabot Japan K.K.  

  Many of our rubber blacks and performance products
customers have been moving their manufacturing operations to emerging, lower
cost regions. To remain competitive, we have been expanding our operations in
those regions, particularly in China. In fiscal 2004, we completed expansion of
a rubber blacks plant in Shanghai operated by Shanghai Cabot Chemical Company
Ltd. ( SCCCL ), our joint venture with Shanghai Coking   Chemical
Company ( Shanghai Coking ). We own 70% of SCCCL. In fiscal 2005, we expanded
our relationship with Shanghai Coking by entering into two joint ventures for
the construction and operation of a new plant in Tianjin, China with units that
will produce both rubber blacks and performance products. We own 70% of the
rubber blacks joint venture and 90% of the performance products joint venture. The
Tianjin plant currently includes two completed rubber blacks production units,
which began producing product for customers in the third quarter of 2006. Construction
of the performance products unit continues to be delayed because of permitting
issues. In addition to our expansion in China, a new rubber blacks
manufacturing unit at our plant in Maua, Brazil became operational in the first
quarter of fiscal 2007.  

  In fiscal 2006, we completed construction of our new
inkjet colorants manufacturing unit in Haverhill, Massachusetts, and in the
fourth quarter product manufactured at the new unit was qualified for
commercial use by one of our key customers. This capacity is intended to serve
the high-speed inkjet market, which is expected to have commercial launches in
the spring of 2007.  

  The headquarters for our
rubber blacks and performance products product lines is located in Boston,
Massachusetts; the headquarters for the inkjet colorants product line is
located in Billerica, Massachusetts; and the headquarters for CSMP is in
Albuquerque, New Mexico. Rubber blacks and performance products also have
regional headquarters in Alpharetta, Georgia (North America), S o Paulo, Brazil
(South America), Leuven, Belgium (Europe), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (Asia
Pacific) and Shanghai, China (China).  

   Metal Oxides
Business     

  The Metal Oxides Business
is comprised of the fumed metal oxides (including fumed silica and fumed
alumina and dispersions thereof) and aerogel product lines.  

    Product Lines    

  Fumed silica is an ultra-fine, high-purity particle
used as a reinforcing, thickening, abrasive, thixotropic, suspending or
anti-caking agent in a wide variety of products produced for the automotive,
construction, microelectronics, and consumer products industries. These
products include adhesives, sealants, cosmetics, inks, toners, silicone rubber,
coatings, polishing slurries and pharmaceuticals. Fumed alumina, also an
ultra-fine, high purity particle, is used as an abrasive, absorbant or barrier
agent in a variety of products, such as inkjet media, lighting, coatings and
cosmetics.  

5  

Cabot s aerogels are
nano-structured high surface area hydrophobic silica particles with potential
uses in a variety of thermal and acoustic insulation applications. Cabot s
aerogels are marketed under the Nanogel     trademark. The first commercial shipment of
Cabot s Nanogel    product occurred in December 2002. To
date, the product has been incorporated into the skylight, window and wall
system products of several manufacturers of panels for use in the daylighting
segment of the construction industry. We continue to focus on application and
market development activities for use of aerogels in other commercial areas,
and in fiscal 2006, began working with several potential customers to qualify
our aerogels products for oil and gas pipeline insulation applications. Because
our aerogel products are new, there is a significant risk that products
targeted for new applications or markets will not gain market acceptance or
that there will not be sufficient market size to support this product. 

    Sales and Customers    

  Sales
of fumed metal oxides and aerogels are made by Cabot employees and through
distributors and sales representatives. The amount of sales for each product
line for each of the last three fiscal years is set forth in the following
table:  

Sales to one silicones
customer and one microelectronics customer represent a material portion of the
Metal Oxides Business. The loss of either of these customers would have a
material adverse effect on the Metal Oxides Business. We currently supply fumed
metal oxides to both of these customers pursuant to long-term contracts. These
contracts accounted for approximately 56% of the volume of fumed metal oxides
sold by Cabot in fiscal year 2006.  

    Competition    

  We believe we are the leading producer and seller of
fumed silica in the United States and second worldwide. We compete in the
manufacture of fumed silica primarily with Degussa AG, Wacker-Chemie GmbH and
Tokuyama Corporation, all of which have a global presence, and with at least
four other companies in various regional markets in which we operate.  

  Although the manufacturing processes used are
different, in premium insulation markets, our aerogel products compete
principally with aerogel products manufactured by Aspen Aerogel, Inc. and
other manufacturers of non-aerogel insulation products.  

  Competition for products
within our Metal Oxides Business is based on price, service, quality, product
performance and technical innovation. For our fumed metal oxides product line,
competition is also based upon the proximity of our manufacturing operations to
those of our customers.  

    Raw Materials    

  Raw materials for the production of fumed silica are
various chlorosilane feedstocks. The feedstocks are either purchased or
converted to product on a fee-basis (so called  toll conversion ) for owners of
the feedstock. We also purchase aluminum chloride as feedstock for the
production of fumed alumina. We have long-term procurement contracts or
arrangements in place for the purchase of feedstock for this business, which we
believe will enable us to meet our raw material requirements for the
foreseeable future. In addition, we buy some raw materials in the spot market
to help ensure flexibility and minimize costs.  

6     

The principal raw
materials for the production of aerogels are silica sol or sodium silicate and
trimethyl-chloro-silane, which we believe are in adequate supply.  

    Operations    

  We own two fumed metal oxide manufacturing plants in
North America; one in Tuscola, Illinois and one in Midland, Michigan. We also
own manufacturing plants in the United Kingdom and Germany and have a 50% joint
venture interest in an Indian entity that owns a plant in India. As part of our
market development and capacity expansion plans in China, we entered into a
joint venture in February 2004 with Bluestar New Chemical Materials Co.,
Ltd. to manufacture fumed silica in China. We own 90% of the venture, called
Cabot Bluestar Chemical (Jiangxi) Co., Ltd., which completed construction of a
fumed silica manufacturing plant near Nanchang, in Jiangxi Province in 2006.
The plant began producing product for customers in the third quarter of fiscal
2006.  

  In 2002, we completed construction of a new semi-works
facility in Frankfurt, Germany for the manufacture of aerogels. Since then, we
have been refining the unique and patented manufacturing process at the semi-works
facility to improve production rates and quality yield to permit manufacturing
at the facility s intended capacity. The manufacture of aerogels uses a new
chemical process and achieving the expected capacity output at the semi-works
facility has taken longer than we anticipated. Although we continue to make
progress in our ability to operate the semi-works facility at higher capacity
levels and over a more sustained period of time, there continues to be a risk
that designed capacity output may not be achieved or that future full-scale
manufacturing is not possible.  

  The headquarters for the
Metal Oxides Business is located in Billerica, Massachusetts. We also have
regional headquarters in Alpharetta, Georgia (North America), S o Paulo, Brazil
(South America), Leuven, Belgium (Europe), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (Asia
Pacific) and Shanghai, China (China).  

   Supermetals
Business     

    Products    

  We produce tantalum, niobium (columbium) and their
alloys. Tantalum, which accounts for substantially all of this Business s
sales, is produced in various forms. Electronics is the largest market for
tantalum powder and wire, which are used to make capacitors for computers,
networking devices, wireless phones, electronics for automobiles and other
devices. Tantalum, niobium and their alloys are also produced in wrought form
for other applications such as the production of superalloys and chemical
process equipment and for various other industrial and aerospace applications.  

  In addition, we sell
tantalum products for the manufacture of tantalum sputtering targets used in
thin film applications, including semiconductors, inkjet heads, magnetics and
flat panel displays. Supermetals has provided the starting metals (high-purity
grade tantalum powders, plates and ingots) used to manufacture finished
tantalum sputtering targets and has also manufactured finished tantalum
sputtering targets. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we decided to stop
manufacturing and selling finished tantalum sputtering targets for end users in
the semiconductor industry and to focus our efforts on the sale of tantalum
plate and ingot to sputtering target manufacturers. In January 2006 we
sold the property, plant and equipment assets related to our direct finished
tantalum sputtering target business to Tosoh SMD, a division of Tosoh
Corporation.  

    Sales and Customers    

  Sales in the United States are made by Cabot
employees, in Europe by Cabot employees and a sales representative, and in
Japan and other parts of Asia primarily through Cabot employees.  

7     

Sales to four capacitor materials customers represent
a material portion of the total net sales and operating revenues of the
Supermetals Business. The loss of any one or more of these customers could have
a material adverse effect on the Supermetals Business.  

  Many of our tantalum
products are used in products for the electronics industry, which is cyclical
in nature. During the last five years, a material portion of the sales of
tantalum powder and wire by the Supermetals Business have been under fixed
price and fixed volume contracts with four customers. These contracts were
designed to provide our customers with a secure supply of tantalum powder and
wire products and to mitigate volatility in our tantalum volumes caused by
cycles in the electronics industry. In fiscal year 2006 these contracts
accounted for approximately 29% of the volume of finished powder and wire sold
by the Supermetals Business. The fixed-price and fixed-volume portions of these
contracts are expiring and by the end of calendar 2006, sales will be
substantially at market prices for variable volumes.  

    Competition    

  We currently have two
principal competitors in our tantalum business, H.C. Starck and Ningxia Non-ferrous Metals (Group) Co., Ltd. We
believe that we are the leading producer of electronic grade tantalum powder
products, with competitors having greater production in some other product
lines. Competition in this business is based on price, service, quality,
product performance and technical innovation.  

    Raw Materials    

  We obtain the majority of
our raw materials in the form of tantalum ore from the mine we own in Manitoba,
Canada, from a mine in Australia owned by the Sons of Gwalia, and from the spot
market. In February 2006, in connection with the settlement of an
arbitration proceeding between Cabot and the Sons of Gwalia over the price at
which the Sons of Gwalia would supply tantalum ore to us under our then current
supply agreement, we entered into a new tantalum ore supply agreement that expires
in December 2008. Since 1996, Cabot has relied on long-term supply
contracts to secure the majority of its raw material requirements. We are
currently evaluating long-term supply options to meet our raw materials needs
beyond 2008. While we believe there is sufficient tantalum to meet global
demand, our ability to contract for significant amounts of tantalum ore beyond
2008 is uncertain.  

    Operations    

  We operate manufacturing
facilities for this business in Boyertown, Pennsylvania and Kawahigashi-machi,
Fukushima-ken, Japan. The headquarters for the Supermetals Business is located
in Boston, Massachusetts.  

   Specialty Fluids
Business     

    Products    

  Our Specialty Fluids
Business produces and markets cesium formate as a drilling and completion fluid
for use primarily in high pressure and high temperature oil and gas well
operations. Cesium formate products are solids-free, high-density fluids that
have a low viscosity, permitting them to flow readily in oil and gas wells. The
fluid is resistant to high temperatures, minimizes damage to producing
reservoirs and is readily biodegradable. Cesium formate is blended and sold
with other formates or products in a majority of applications. To date, cesium
formate has been used successfully in over 120 oil and gas well completions and
drill-in applications.  

    Sales and Customers    

  Sales of our cesium formate products are made by Cabot
employees and sales representatives directly to oil and gas operating companies
and through oil field service companies. We generally rent cesium   

8     

formate to our customers
for use in drilling operations on a short-term basis. After completion of a
job, the customer returns the fluid to Cabot, and it is reprocessed for use in
subsequent well operations. Any of the fluid that is lost during use and not
returned to Cabot is paid for by the customer. The rates to be charged to the
customer for the daily rental of the product and for the product that is lost
are negotiated and agreed to prior to the beginning of the job. Ordinarily,
approximately 15% of the cesium formate used in an operation is lost.  

  In 2003, we entered into an agreement with a major
energy service company to provide a supply of 
cesium formate-based fluids for both reservoir drilling and completion
activities on two large gas and condensate field projects in the Norwegian
Continental Shelf being developed and operated by Statoil. The loss of this
customer would have a material adverse effect on the Specialty Fluids Business.
We are currently negotiating an extension of this agreement through 2008.  

  Our fluids have been used
principally for drilling and completion of wells in the North Sea. In the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 our fluids were used in the drilling of one
appraisal well in Argentina, allowing the customer to assess cesium formate s
impact on  formation damage.   

    Competition    

  Formate fluids, which were
introduced to the market in the mid-1990s, are a relatively small but
growing part of the fluids market and compete mainly with traditional drilling
fluid technologies. Competition in the well fluids business is based on price,
service, quality, product performance, technical innovation and proximity of
inventory to customers  drilling operations.  

    Raw Materials    

  The principal raw material used in this business is
pollucite ore, which we obtain from our mine in Manitoba, Canada. We have an
adequate supply of this cesium-rich pollucite ore, owning a substantial portion
of the world s known pollucite reserves. Pollucite ore, however, is a finite
resource. At current production rates and our currently estimated reserve
levels, we expect our supply in the mine to last approximately 10-15
years. The process of estimating mineral reserves is inherently uncertain and
requires making subjective engineering, geological, geophysical and economic
assumptions. Accordingly, there is likely to be variability in the estimated
reserve life of the ore body over time. Further, our estimate of known reserves
does not include low grade ore that will require different, although
well-established, recovery techniques than we currently use, or our existing
inventory of finished product.  

  Most jobs for which cesium
formate is used require a large volume of the product. Accordingly, the
Specialty Fluids Business carries a large supply of fluid.  

    Operations    

  We have a mine and a
cesium formate manufacturing facility in Manitoba, Canada. Cabot has fluid
blending and reclamation facilities in Aberdeen, Scotland and in Bergen and
Kristiansund, Norway. In addition, fluid is being warehoused at various
locations around the world to support existing and potential new operations.
The Specialty Fluids Business has its headquarters in Aberdeen, Scotland.  

   Patents and
Trademarks     

  We own and are a licensee of
various patents, which expire at different times, covering many of our
products, as well as processes and product uses. Although the products made and
sold under these patents and licenses are important to Cabot, the loss of any
particular patent or license would not materially affect our business, taken as
a whole. We sell our products under a variety of trademarks, the loss of any
one of which would not materially affect our business, taken as a whole.  

9     

Backlog     

  Cabot s businesses are
generally not seasonal in nature, although they typically experience some
decline in European and North American sales in the fourth fiscal quarter due
to summer plant shutdowns and in sales in Asia Pacific and China in the second
fiscal quarter because of the New Year holidays in those regions. In general,
no significant lead-time between order and delivery exists in any of our
business segments and management does not use backlog information in managing
our business. As a result, we do not consider that the dollar amount of backlog
orders believed to be firm as of any particular date is material for an
understanding of our business.  

   Employees     

  As of September 30,
2006, we had approximately 4,300 employees. Some of our employees in the United
States and abroad are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements,
several of which are subject to renegotiation in the coming year. We believe
that our relations with our employees are generally satisfactory.  

   Research and
Development     

  Cabot develops new and
improved products and higher efficiency processes through Company-sponsored
research and technical service activities, including those initiated in
response to customer requests. Our expenditures for such activities generally
are spread among our businesses and are shown in the consolidated statements of
operations.  

   Safety, Health and
Environment     

  The Company has been named as a potentially
responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
and Liability Act of 1980 (the  Superfund law ) and comparable state statutes
with respect to several sites primarily associated with our divested
businesses. (See  Legal Proceedings  below.) During the next several years, as
remediation of various environmental sites is carried out, we expect to spend a
significant portion of our $13 million environmental reserve for costs
associated with such remediation. We anticipate that the expenditures at these
sites will be made over a number of years. Adjustments are made to the reserve
based on our continuing analysis of our share of costs likely to be incurred at
each site. Inherent uncertainties exist in these estimates due to unknown
conditions at the various sites, changing governmental regulations and legal
standards regarding liability, and changing technologies for handling site
investigation and remediation. While the reserve represents our best estimate
of the costs we expect to incur, no assurance can be given that the actual
costs to investigate and remediate these sites will not exceed the amounts accrued
in the environmental reserve. While it is always possible that an unusual event
may occur with respect to a given site and have a material adverse effect on
the results of operations in a particular period, in light of the environmental
reserve, we do not believe that the costs relating to these sites, in the
aggregate, are likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition. It is possible that we may also incur future costs relating to sites
that are not currently known to us or as to which it is currently not possible
to make an estimate.  

  The Company s ongoing operations are subject to
extensive federal, state, local, and foreign laws, regulations, rules, and
ordinances relating to safety, health, and environmental matters ( SH E
Requirements ). We have expended considerable sums to construct, maintain,
operate, and improve facilities for safety, health and environmental protection
and to comply with SH E Requirements. We spent approximately $14 million
in environmentally related capital expenditures at existing facilities in
fiscal year 2006 and anticipate spending approximately $16 million for such
costs in fiscal year 2007.  

10  

In recognition of the importance of SH E
Requirements to the Company, in February 1990, our Board of Directors
established a Safety, Health, and Environmental Affairs Committee. The
Committee, which is comprised of seven non-employee directors, generally meets
three times a year and provides oversight and guidance in respect of the
Company s safety, health and environmental management programs and performance.
In particular, the Committee reviews the Company s environmental reserve, risk
assessment and management processes, environmental and safety audit reports,
performance metrics, performance as benchmarked against industry peer groups,
assessed fines or penalties, site security and safety issues, health and
environmental training initiatives, and SH E budget and capital
expenditures, and consults with the Company s outside and internal advisors
regarding management of the Company s safety, health and environmental
programs.  

  In 1996, the International Agency for Research on
Cancer ( IARC ) revised its evaluation of carbon black from Group 3
(insufficient evidence to make a determination regarding carcinogenicity) to
Group 2B (known animal carcinogen, possible human carcinogen). We have
communicated IARC s classification of carbon black to our customers and
employees and have included that information in our material safety data sheets
and elsewhere, as appropriate. IARC reviewed its classification of carbon black
regarding carcinogenicity in February 2006 and decided to maintain the
classification of carbon black as a Group 2B substance. We continue to believe
that the available evidence, taken as a whole, indicates that carbon black is
not carcinogenic to humans, and does not present a health hazard when handled
in accordance with good housekeeping and safe workplace practices as described
in our material safety data sheets.  

  In October 1999, the California Office of
Environmental Health Hazard Assessment ( OEHHA ) published a Notice of Intent
to add  carbon black (airborne particles of respirable size)  to its list of
chemicals known to the State to cause cancer promulgated pursuant to the
California Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act, commonly referred to
as Proposition 65. OEHHA stated it was taking this action in light of IARC s
1996 reclassification of carbon black. Proposition 65 requires businesses to
give warnings to individuals before they knowingly or intentionally expose them
to chemicals subject to its requirements, and it prohibits businesses from
knowingly discharging or releasing the chemicals into water or onto land where
they could contaminate drinking water. In February 2003, OEHHA published a
notice adding  carbon black (airborne, unbound particles of respirable size) 
to the Proposition 65 list. We worked with the International Carbon Black
Association ( ICBA ), as well as various customers and carbon black user
groups, to ensure compliance with the requirements associated with the
Proposition 65 listing of carbon black, which became effective in February 2004.  

  In April 2002, The Netherlands published the  Dutch
Notes on BAT for the Carbon Black Industry  to support the identification of
Best Available Techniques ( BAT ) for the European carbon black industry
pursuant to European Union ( EU ) Directive 96/61/EEC. BAT Reference Documents,
so-called BREF Notes, are being prepared by various EU member countries under
the supervision of the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Bureau (the  IPPC
Bureau ). The currently proposed IPPC Bureau draft BAT guidance for large
volume inorganic chemicals for the carbon black industry calls for an annual
average sulfur content in carbon black feedstock in the range of 0.5% to 1.5%
to control sulfur dioxide emissions. Depending on the final guidance adopted,
this could have significant financial effects on the carbon black industry,
including the Company, and could cause the Company to experience difficulty
obtaining low sulfur feedstock at an acceptable cost for its European
operations. We are not able to predict whether this regulatory development in
the EU will affect our earnings in a materially adverse manner.  

  Since October 2003, the European Commission ( EC )
has been developing a new EU regulatory framework for chemicals. The proposed
new system called REACH (Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of
Chemicals) would apply to all existing and new chemical substances produced or
imported into the EU in quantities greater than one ton a year. Manufacturers
or importers of these chemical substances would be obligated to register the
substance with a central agency by submitting   

11     

specified health, safety,
risk and use information about the substance. On November 17, 2005, REACH
was adopted by the European Parliament in the first reading of the draft
legislation. On June 22, 2006, a common position was adopted by the EU
Council with a view to passage of an amended REACH legislation. The common
position was approved by the European Parliament in December 2006. REACH
is expected to be effective in June 2007. As we are committed to
continuing to supply our EU customers, we continue to implement plans to
respond to the upcoming requirements of REACH.  

  The EC has been working with the European tire
industry on a proposal to restrict the marketing and use of certain polycyclic
aromatic hydrocarbons ( PAHs ) in extender oils and tires. This proposal to
amend European Union Directive 76/769/EC would prohibit the use of extender
oils containing high levels of eight PAHs classified as carcinogenic according
to the EC in tires beginning January 1, 2009. The proposal s objective is
to reduce the emission of tire debris that contains carcinogens into the
environment to an acceptable level. The EC is now considering whether to extend
this proposal to all potential sources of PAHs in tires. In non-adsorbed forms,
some PAHs have been found to be carcinogens in animal studies. PAHs adsorbed to
carbon blacks, however, have been shown by scientific studies dating back to
the mid-1980 s to be tightly bound to the carbon black particle surface.  

  On May 15, 2002, the United States Environmental
Protection Agency ( EPA ) signed the final rule amending the Generic
Maximum Achievable Control Technology ( MACT ) standards to add National
Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants ( NESHAP ) for the carbon
black production source category ( Carbon Black MACT ) as required under Title
III of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. This new rule was published
in the Federal Register on July 12, 2002 and became effective for carbon
black plants located in the United States on July 12, 2005. EPA has
identified hazardous air pollutants ( HAPs ) associated with the production of
carbon black. The Carbon Black MACT requires 98% elimination of HAPs emissions
from process vents on facility main unit filters. This is generally
accomplished by combusting the tail gas vented from these filters. We were
granted a one-year extension by the West Virginia Department of Environmental
Protection s Division of Air Quality ( DAQ ) to comply with the new Carbon
Black MACT at our Ohio River facility in Waverly, West Virginia. The December 2004
Consent Order between the Company and DAQ provided that the Ohio River facility
would install the necessary controls to comply with the Carbon Black MACT by July 12,
2006 and Cabot satisfactorily complied with that extension.  

  We are experiencing increased interest by
environmental regulatory agencies worldwide in the air emissions associated
with our manufacturing operations, particularly our carbon black plants. This
increased scrutiny by regulatory bodies indicates a trend toward more
restrictive air emission limits globally. In addition, global interest in the
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions will likely have some impact on the
carbon black industry. In December 2005, the EC published a new directive
that includes carbon black manufacturing in the combustion sector and includes carbon
black manufacturing in Phase II of the Emission Trading Scheme for the period
2008 to 2012. Various member states have included carbon black facilities in
their draft national allocation plans, including the U.K. and the Netherlands. At
the present time, we are in negotiations with the various member states to
achieve adequate allocations.  

  Since the terrorist
attacks in the U.S. on September 11, 2001, various U.S. agencies and
international bodies have adopted new requirements that impose increased security
requirements on certain manufacturing and industrial facilities and locations. These
security-related requirements involve the preparation of security assessments
and security plans in some cases, and in other cases the registration of
certain facilities with specified governmental authorities. We are closely
monitoring all security related regulatory developments and believe we are in
compliance with all existing requirements. Compliance with such requirements is
not expected to have a material adverse effect on our operations.  

12     

Financial
Information About Segments, Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales     

  Segment financial data are
set forth in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations in Item 7, and in Note U of the Notes to the Company s
Consolidated Financial Statements, which appears in Item 8 of this annual
report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30,
2006. A significant portion of our revenues and operating profits is derived
from overseas operations. The profitability of our segments is affected by
fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies.
(See the Geographic Information portion of Note U for further information
relating to sales and long-lived assets by geographic area and Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.)
Currency fluctuations and nationalization and expropriation of assets are risks
inherent in international operations. We have taken steps we deem prudent in
our international operations to diversify and otherwise to protect against
these risks, including the use of foreign currency financial instruments to
reduce the risk associated with changes in the value of certain foreign
currencies compared to the U.S. dollar. (See the Risk Management discussion
contained in  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  in
Item 7A below, and Note T of the Notes to the Company s Consolidated Financial
Statements, which appears in Item 8).  

   Item 1A.                     Risk Factors    

  In addition to factors
described elsewhere in this report, the following are important factors that
could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in our
forward-looking statements. It is not possible, however, to predict or identify
all such factors. Accordingly, investors should not consider the following to
be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.  

   Changes in supply-demand balance at our plants and the
industries in which we operate may adversely   affect our financial
results.   

  Our key customers in mature carbon black markets such
as North America and Western Europe continue to shift their manufacturing capacity
from those regions to developing regions such as Asia, South America and
Eastern Europe. Although we are responding to meet these market demand
conditions, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in expanding
capacity in developing regions (which depends in part on economic and political
conditions in these regions and, in some cases, on our ability to acquire or
form strategic business alliances) or in reducing capacity in mature regions
commensurate with industry demand. Similarly, demand for our customers 
products and our competitors  reactions to market conditions could affect our
results.  

  In addition, our rubber
blacks, performance products and fumed metal oxides product lines are sensitive
to changes in industry capacity utilization. As a result, pricing tends to
decrease when capacity utilization in these product lines decreases, which
could affect our financial performance.  

   We depend on a group of key customers for a
significant portion of our sales. A significant adverse change   in a customer relationship
or in a customer s performance or financial position could harm our business
and financial condition.   

  Our success in strengthening relationships and growing
business with our largest customers and retaining their business over extended
time periods could affect our future results. Three major tire customers, one
silicones customer, four capacitor materials customers and one microelectronics
customer represent a material portion of our total net sales and operating
revenues. In fiscal year 2006, sales to The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company by
our rubber blacks product line accounted for approximately 14% of our
consolidated revenues. The loss of any one or more of our important customers, or
a reduction in volumes sold to them because of a work stoppage or other
disruption, could materially adversely affect our results of operations until
such business is replaced or the disruption ends. Any deterioration of the   

13     

financial condition of any
of our customers that impairs their ability to make payments to us also could
affect our future results and financial condition.  

  In addition, a material
portion of our sales are made to customers under long-term and annual
contracts. The loss or expiration of any of these customer contracts could
increase the volatility of our business results.  

   Increases in the price of raw materials or their
reduced availability could increase our cost of goods and   decrease our
profitability.   

  The cost, availability and
quality of raw materials affect our results. Dramatic increases in such costs
or decreases in the availability of raw materials at acceptable costs could
have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, if proposed
environmental regulations applicable to the European carbon black industry that
call for a reduction in the annual average sulfur content in carbon black
feedstock are adopted, we may experience some difficulty obtaining low sulfur
feedstock at an acceptable cost for our European operations. Moreover, although
our long-term and some of our annual carbon black supply contracts provide for
a price adjustment to account for changes in feedstock costs, there is a lag
between the time when feedstock costs are incurred by us and the time when prices
are adjusted under the contracts. Accordingly, we may not be able to pass
increased costs along to our customers during the quarter in which they occur,
which can have a significant negative impact in a given quarter. For
non-contract sales, we may not be able to increase prices at all or in an
amount sufficient to compensate for higher feedstock costs. In addition, it is
possible that a supply contract with a price adjustment mechanism could expire
by its terms before we are able to recapture fully our raw material cost
increases.  

   Fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange and interest rates could affect our financial
results.     

  We earn revenues, pay
expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other
than the U.S. dollar. In 2006, we used 15 functional currencies in addition to
the U.S. dollar and derived a substantial amount of our revenues in 2006 from
sales outside the United States. Because our consolidated financial statements
are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses
as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect
during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or
decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will
affect our net revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items
denominated in foreign currencies. Because of the geographic diversity of our
operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in
others over time. In addition, we are exposed to adverse changes in interest
rates. We manage these risks through normal operating and financing activities
and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial
instruments as well as foreign currency debt. We cannot be certain, however,
that our financial risk management program will be successful in reducing the
risks inherent in exposures to foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations.  

   We are exposed to
political or country risk inherent in doing business in some countries.     

  These risks may include nationalization
and expropriation of assets or other actions of governments, importing and
exporting issues, contract loss and asset abandonment.  

   Plant capacity expansions
may be delayed and not achieve the expected benefits.     

  Our ability to complete
capacity expansions as planned may be delayed or interrupted by the need to
obtain environmental and other regulatory approvals, availability of labor and
materials, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, and other risks
customarily associated with construction projects. Moreover, capacity expansion
in our rubber blacks, performance products, fumed metal oxides and inkjet   

14     

colorants
product lines could have a negative impact on the product line s business
performance until capacity utilization is sufficient to absorb the incremental
costs associated with the expansion.  

   Our efforts to
maintain or increase our margins may not be successful.     

  We have undertaken and will continue to undertake cost
reduction initiatives and organizational restructurings to improve operating
efficiencies and generate cost savings. We cannot be certain that we will be
able to complete these initiatives as planned or that the estimated operating
efficiencies or cost savings from such activities will be realized.  

  In addition to cost
reduction initiatives, we try to maintain or improve margins on our
non-contracted sales through price increases. However, such increases may not
be accepted by our customers, may not be sufficient to compensate for increased
raw material and energy costs, or may decrease demand for our products and our
volume of sales.  

   We spend a
significant amount of money developing new businesses.     

  Our strategic focus
includes optimizing our core businesses and investing the cash and intellectual
resources they generate in developing new businesses. We cannot be certain that
the costs we incur investing in these new businesses will result in a
proportional increase in revenues or profits. In addition, the timely
commercialization of products that we are developing may be disrupted or
delayed by manufacturing or other technical difficulties, market acceptance or
insufficient market size to support a new product, competitors  new products, and
difficulties in moving from the experimental stage to the production stage. These
delays could affect our future results.  

   Any failure to realize benefits from joint ventures,
acquisitions or alliances could adversely affect future   financial results.   

  As part of our strategies
for growth and improved profitability, we have made and may continue to make
acquisitions and investments and enter into joint ventures. The success of
acquisitions of new technologies, companies and products, or arrangements with
third parties is not predictable and we may not be successful in realizing our
objectives as anticipated.  

   We may be required to impair or write-off certain
assets if our assumptions about future sales and   profitability prove
incorrect.   

  In our analysis of the
recoverability of certain assets, namely inventory, property, plant and
equipment, intangible assets and deferred tax assets, we have made assumptions
about future sales (pricing, volume and region of sale), costs, cash generation
and the ultimate profitability of the business and/or tax jurisdiction. These
assumptions were based on management s best estimates and if the actual results
differ significantly from these assumptions, we may not be able to realize the
value of the assets recorded as of September 30, 2006, which could lead to
an impairment or write-off of certain of these assets in the future.  

   Our operations involve the handling of hazardous
materials, and we are subject to extensive safety, health and environmental
requirements, which could increase our costs and/or reduce   our revenues.   

  Our ongoing operations are subject to extensive
federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances
relating to safety, health and environmental matters ( SH E Requirements ),
many of which provide for substantial monetary fines and criminal sanctions for
violations.  In addition, the operation
of a chemical manufacturing business as well as the sale and distribution of
chemical products involve safety, health and environmental risks. For example,
the production and/or processing of carbon black, fumed metal oxides, tantalum,
niobium, aerogels and other chemicals involve the handling,   

15     

transportation,
manufacture or use of certain substances or components that may be considered
toxic or hazardous within the meaning of applicable SH E Requirements. The
transportation of chemical products and other activities associated with the
manufacturing process have the potential to cause environmental or other damage
as well as injury or death to employees or third parties.  

  We could incur significant
expenditures in connection with such operational risks. We believe that our
ongoing operations comply with current SH E Requirements in a manner that
should not materially affect our earnings or cash flow in an adverse manner. We
can not be certain,  however, that
significant costs or liabilities will not be incurred with respect to SH E
Requirements and our operations. Moreover, we are not able to predict whether future
changes or developments in SH E Requirements will affect our earnings or
cash flow in a materially adverse manner.  

   Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to
significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our   financial results.   

  As more fully described in
 Item 3 Legal Proceedings,  we are a party to or the subject of lawsuits,
claims, and proceedings, including those involving contract, environmental,
antitrust, and health and safety matters as well as product liability and
personal injury claims relating to asbestosis, silicosis and berylliosis, and
exposure to various chemicals. Adverse rulings, judgments or settlements in
pending or future litigation (including carbon black antitrust claims and
liabilities associated with respirator claims) could cause our results to
differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in any forward-looking
statements.  

   The continued protection of our patents and other
proprietary intellectual property rights are important   to our success.   

  Our patent and other intellectual property rights are
important to our success and competitive position. We own various patents and
other intellectual property rights in the United States and other countries
covering many of our products, as well as processes and product uses. In
addition, we are a licensee of various patents and intellectual property rights
belonging to others in the United States and other countries. Because the laws
and enforcement mechanisms of some countries may not allow us to protect our
proprietary rights to the same extent as we are able to in the United States,
the strength of our intellectual property rights will vary from country to
country.  

  Irrespective of our
proprietary intellectual property rights, we may be subject to claims that our
products, processes or product uses infringe the intellectual property rights
of others. These claims, even if they are without merit, could be expensive and
time consuming to defend and if we were to lose such claims, we could be
subject to injunctions and/or damages, or be required to enter into licensing
agreements requiring royalty payments and/or use restrictions. Licensing
agreements may not be available to Cabot, and if available, may not be
available on acceptable terms.  

   Changes in our
effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.     

  Our future effective tax
rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including the
jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the
repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for
U.S. taxes; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax
returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including
write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of
goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits;
changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the estimated
realization of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in tax laws or
the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from
tax audits with various tax authorities. Any significant increase in our future
effective tax rates could adversely affect net income for future periods.  

16     

Natural disasters
could affect our operations and financial results   .    

  We operate facilities in
areas of the world that are exposed to natural hazards, such as hurricanes and
earthquakes. Such events could disrupt our supply of raw materials or otherwise
affect production, transportation and delivery of our products or affect demand
for our products.  

   Our business is
subject to other general business risks.     

  In addition to the factors
described above, the following other factors, among others, could affect our
future performance and cause our actual results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements: changes in the rate of
economic growth in the United States and other international economies; changes
in trade, monetary and fiscal policies throughout the world; stock market
conditions; acts of war and terrorist activities; and the impact of global
health, safety and environmental concerns on economic conditions and market
opportunities.  

   Item 1B.                    Unresolved Staff Comments    

  None.  

17  

Item 2.                             Properties    

   Cabot s
corporate headquarters are in leased office space in Boston, Massachusetts. We
also own or   lease
office, manufacturing, storage, distribution, marketing and research and
development facilities in the United States and in foreign countries. As of December 6,
2006, the locations of our principal manufacturing and/or administrative
facilities are set forth in the table below. Unless otherwise indicated, all
the properties are owned.   

Segment Using Facility   

Location by Cabot Business Region   

Carbon 
  Black   

Metal 
  Oxides   

Supermetals   

Specialty 
  Fluids   

North America   

Alpharetta, GA*(1)  

X  

X  

X  

Tuscola, IL  

X  

Centerville, LA  

X  

Ville Platte, LA  

X  

Billerica, MA  

X  

X  

X  

Haverhill, MA  

X  

Midland, MI  

X  

Albuquerque, NM*  

X  

Boyertown, PA  

X  

Pampa, TX  

X  

The Woodlands, TX*  

X  

Waverly, WV  

X  

Lac du Bonnet, Manitoba**  

X  

X  

Sarnia, Ontario  

X  

Europe   

Loncin, Belgium  

X  

Leuven, Belgium*(1)  

X  

X  

X  

Pepinster, Belgium  

X  

Valmez, Czech Republic**  

X  

Dukinfield, England  

X  

Stanlow, England  

X  

Berre, France  

X  

Port Jerome, France**  

X  

Suresnes, France*  

X  

Frankfurt, Germany*  

X  

Hanau, Germany  

X  

X  

Rheinfelden, Germany  

X  

Grigno, Italy  

X  

Ravenna, Italy  

X  

Bergen, Norway*  

X  

Aberdeen, Scotland*  

X  

Botlek, The Netherlands**  

X  

Barry, Wales*  

X  

(1)             Regional Shared Service
Center 

  *                       Leased
premises 

  **                Building(s) owned
by Cabot on leased land 

18     

Segment Using Facility   

Location by Cabot Business Region   

Carbon 
  Black   

Metal 
  Oxides   

Supermetals   

Specialty 
  Fluids   

China   

Jiangxi Province, China**  

X  

Tianjin, China**  

X  

Shanghai, China*(1)  

X  

X  

Shanghai, China** (plant)  

X  

Asia Pacific   

Hong Kong, China**  

X  

Maharashtra, India**  

X  

Mumbai, India*  

X  

Cilegon, Indonesia**  

X  

Jarkarta, Indonesia*  

X  

Merak, Indonesia  

X  

Kawahigashi-machi, Japan**  

X  

Ichihara, Japan  

X  

Shimonoseki, Japan**  

X  

Tokyo, Japan*  

X  

X  

X  

Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia*(1)  

X  

X  

South America   

Campana, Argentina  

X  

Maua, Brazil  

X  

Sao Paulo, Brazil*(1)  

X  

X  

Cartagena,
  Colombia  

X  

(1)             Regional Shared Service
Center 

  *                       Leased
premises 

  **                Building(s) owned
by Cabot on leased land 

  Cabot
holds a 50% interest in a joint venture that manufacturers fumed silica at a
facility in Mettur Dam, India and has a sales office in Chennai, India. Cabot
also holds the ownership interests set forth below in carbon black
manufacturing facilities at the following locations:  

Location   

Percentage 
  Interest   

Port Dickson, Malaysia  

49%  

Valencia,
  Venezuela  

47.5%  

Tampico, Mexico  

40%  

Cabot conducts research and development for its
various businesses primarily at facilities in Billerica, MA; Albuquerque, NM;
Boyertown, PA; Pampa, TX; Pepinster, Belgium; Frankfurt and Rheinfelden,
Germany; Kawahigashi-machi, Japan; and Port Dickson, Malaysia.  

  Cabot s existing
manufacturing plants, together with announced capacity expansion plans, will
generally have sufficient production capacity to meet our current requirements
and expected near-term growth. These plants are generally well maintained, in
good operating condition and suitable and adequate for their use. Cabot s
administrative offices and other facilities are generally suitable and adequate
for their intended purposes.  

19     

Item 3.                             Legal Proceedings    

  The Company is a defendant
in various lawsuits and environmental proceedings wherein substantial amounts
are claimed. The following is a description of the significant proceedings
pending as of September 30, 2006, unless otherwise specified.  

   Environmental
Proceedings     

  During the summer of 1998, Cabot joined a group of
companies in forming the Ashtabula River Cooperative Group ( ARCG ), which
collectively agreed on an allocation for funding private party shares of a
public/private partnership (the Ashtabula River Partnership (the  ARP )),
established to conduct navigational dredging and environmental restoration of
the Ashtabula River (the  River ) in Ashtabula, Ohio. The ARP expects to obtain
additional funding from the federal government for the project under the Great
Lakes Legacy Act ( GLLA ) and the Water Resources Development Act ( WRDA ). In December 2005,
the EPA announced the approval of a project to dredge the upstream portion of
the river under GLLA, with a 50% cost sharing by the federal government. The
remaining downstream portion is expected to be approved under WRDA, and all of
the dredging costs and 90% of the disposal costs for the downstream portion of
the project are eligible for federal funding under WRDA. The State of Ohio has
pledged a contribution of $7 million to the project, which will reduce the cost
to be borne by the non-federal participants. The ARCG has agreed to bear a
substantial percentage of the remaining costs, of which Cabot expects to have a
significant share. Dredging of the upstream portion of the River began in 2006
and is scheduled to be completed in late 2007. In addition, the ARCG has
received a notice of claim from the Ashtabula River Natural Resources Trustees
for natural resource damages related to the River and the amount of that claim
remains to be negotiated. The restoration project under GLLA and WRDA should
substantially reduce the magnitude of the natural resources damages claim.  

  In 1986, Cabot sold a manufacturing facility in Reading,
Pennsylvania to NGK Metals, Inc. ( NGK ). In doing so, Cabot agreed to
share with NGK the costs of certain environmental remediation of the Reading
plant site. After the sale, the EPA issued an order to NGK requiring it to
address soil and groundwater contamination at the site. Remediation activities
at the Reading property are ongoing and we are contributing to the costs
associated with certain of those activities pursuant to the cost-sharing
agreement with NGK.  

  Cabot is the holder of a Nuclear Regulatory Commission
( NRC ) license for certain slag waste material deposited on industrial
property in Reading, Pennsylvania in the late 1960s by a predecessor of Cabot
that had leased a portion of the site to process tin slags. The slag material
contains low levels of uranium and thorium, thus subjecting it to NRC
jurisdiction. We have prepared a site decommissioning plan for the slag
material which concludes that the levels of radioactivity in the slag are low
enough that the material can be safely left in place and still meet NRC
requirements for license termination without restrictions. Our decommissioning
plan proposing this in-place remedy was filed with the NRC in August 1998.
The City of Reading and the Reading Redevelopment Authority (the  RRA ) filed requests
for a hearing with the NRC concerning Cabot s decommissioning plan, alleging
various deficiencies with the plan. In October 2000, we reached an
agreement with the City of Reading and the RRA to settle their claims. In July 2002,
the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection submitted comments to
the NRC opposing our proposed decommissioning plan. We continue to work with
the NRC to obtain approval of the decommissioning plan.  

  The EPA has completed an investigation of certain
areas surrounding Cabot s Boyertown, Pennsylvania facility. The investigation
was prompted by media reports of complaints by area farmers of health impacts
and damage to livestock and crops allegedly associated with emissions from the
Boyertown facility. In a report dated November 2000, the EPA stated that
increased concentrations of some elements in environmental media at locations
near the Boyertown site did not pose a health threat to the broad   

20     

community necessitating a
cleanup action by the EPA. The EPA report concluded that it could find no
relationship between industrial emissions and reported poor farm production and
animal health concerns. Two neighboring farmers brought an action against Cabot
in September 2001 in a state court in Pennsylvania alleging damage to their
farms over a multi-year period. Cabot removed the suit to federal court, the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and moved for summary judgment on statute of
limitations grounds. In May 2004, the Court granted the motion and
dismissed all of the farmers  claims to the extent they arose from Cabot s
activities prior to November 10, 1998. The farmers unilaterally dismissed
their remaining claims in November 2004. The farmers filed an appeal of
the limitations decision to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals in November 2004
and oral arguments were heard in October 2005. In May 2006, the Third
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the district court and remanded the case to
district court for a trial of the pre-1998 claims. The trial is scheduled
for April 2007.  

  Cabot has several environmental-related lawsuits
pending in Campana, Argentina related to our carbon black plant in Campana. Those
lawsuits were filed between 2003 and 2006 by several residential neighbors
living near the industrial area where Cabot s plant is located. The lawsuits
also name other industrial companies operating in the Campana area. The
plaintiffs seek monetary damages for property damage and other injury allegedly
caused by emissions from neighboring industrial facilities. We believe the
claims relative to Cabot are without merit.  

  Cabot has received various requests for information
and notifications that it may be a PRP at several other Superfund sites.  

  As of September 30,
2006, approximately $13 million was reserved for environmental matters by the
Company. The operational and maintenance component of this reserve includes $4
million on a net present value basis or $6 million on an undiscounted basis. This
amount represents our current best estimate of costs likely to be incurred for
remediation based on our analysis of the extent of cleanup required,
alternative cleanup methods available, abilities of other responsible parties
to contribute and our interpretation of laws and regulations applicable to each
site described above.  

   Other Proceedings     

    Respirator
Liabilities    

  We have exposure in connection with a safety
respiratory products business that a subsidiary acquired from American Optical
Corporation ( AO ) in an April 1990 asset purchase transaction. The
subsidiary manufactured respirators under the AO brand and disposed of that
business in July 1995. In connection with its acquisition of the business,
the subsidiary agreed, in certain circumstances, to assume a portion of AO s
liabilities, including costs of legal fees together with amounts paid in
settlements and judgments, allocable to AO respiratory products used prior to
the 1990 purchase by the Cabot subsidiary. In exchange for the subsidiary s
assumption of certain of AO s respirator liabilities, AO agreed to provide to
the subsidiary the benefits of: (1) AO s insurance coverage for the period
prior to the 1990 acquisition, and (2) a former owner s indemnity of AO
holding it harmless from any liability allocable to AO respiratory products
used prior to May 1982. Generally, these respirator liabilities involve
claims for personal injury, including asbestosis and silicosis, allegedly
resulting from the use of respirators that are claimed to have been negligently
designed or labeled.  

  Neither Cabot, nor its past or present subsidiaries,
at any time manufactured asbestos or asbestos-containing products. Moreover,
not every person with exposure to asbestos giving rise to an asbestos claim
used a form of respiratory protection. At no time did this respiratory product
line represent a significant portion of the respirator market. In addition,
other parties, including AO, AO s insurers, and another former owner and its
insurers (collectively, the  Payor Group ), are responsible for significant
portions of the costs of these liabilities, leaving Cabot s subsidiary with a
portion of the liability in only some of the pending cases.  

21     

The subsidiary disposed of the business in July 1995
by transferring it to a newly-formed joint venture called Aearo Corporation ( Aearo )
and retained an equity interest in Aearo. Cabot agreed to have the subsidiary
retain liabilities allocable to respirators used prior to the 1995 transaction
so long as Aearo pays Cabot an annual fee of $400,000. Aearo can discontinue
payment of the fee at any time, in which case it will assume the responsibility
for and indemnify us against the liabilities allocable to respirators
manufactured and used prior to the 1995 transaction. We have no liability in
connection with any products manufactured by Aearo after 1995. Between July 1995
and September 30, 2001, our total costs and payments in connection with
these respirator liabilities did not exceed the total amounts received from
Aearo. Since September 30, 2001, our total costs and payments in
connection with these liabilities have exceeded the amount we have received
from Aearo because of the significant increase in claims filed against AO
beginning in calendar year 2001. In August 2003, Cabot and its subsidiary
sold all of the subsidiary s equity interest in Aearo for approximately $35
million. This sale did not alter the arrangements described above.  

  As of December 31, 2002, there were approximately
50,000 claimants in pending cases asserting claims against AO in connection
with respiratory products. As of September 30, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006
there were approximately 87,000, 91,000, 92,000 and 63,000 claimants,
respectively. A large portion of the claims asserted during 2003 were filed in
Mississippi and appear to have been prompted by changes in Mississippi s state
procedural laws, which caused claimants to file their claims prior to the
effective date of these changes. In 2005, a
federal judge ruled that many of the  diagnoses  presented in a broad silicosis
class action were unreliable. As a consequence of this ruling, silica and
non-malignant asbestos claims filed throughout the country have dropped
significantly for AO and for defendants in general in non-malignant asbestos
and silica cases. In addition, many of the claims filed against AO during 2003,
2004 and 2005, which were pending as of September 30, 2005, have been
dismissed without payment. It is not clear at this time whether this reduction
in silica and non-malignant asbestos claims will continue or stabilize or
whether the number of these claims will rebound.  

  Cabot has contributed to the Payor Group s defense and
settlement costs with respect to a percentage of pending claims depending on
several factors, including the period of alleged product use. In order to
quantify our estimated share of liability for pending and future respirator
liability claims, we engaged through counsel the assistance of Hamilton,
Rabinovitz   Alschuler, Inc. ( HR A ), a leading consulting
firm in the field of tort liability valuation. The methodology developed by
HR A addresses the complexities surrounding our potential liability by
making assumptions about future claimants with respect to periods of asbestos
exposure and respirator use. Using those and other assumptions, HR A
estimated the number of future claims that would be filed and the related costs
that would be incurred in resolving those claims. On this basis, HR A then
estimated the net present value of the share of these liabilities that
reflected our period of direct manufacture and our actual contractual obligations
assuming that all other members of the Payor Group meet their obligations.
Based on the HR A estimates, we have recorded on a net present value basis
an $18 million reserve ($28 million on an undiscounted basis) to cover our
estimated share of liability for pending and future respirator claims.  

  Our current estimate of
the cost of our share of existing and future respirator liability claims is
based on facts and circumstances existing at this time. Developments that could
affect our estimate include, but are not limited to, (i) significant
changes in the number of future claims, (ii) a continuation in the recent
trend of dismissals without payment of pending silica and non-malignant
asbestos claims that began this year, (iii) significant changes in the
average cost of resolving claims, (iv) significant changes in the legal
costs of defending these claims, (v) changes in the nature of claims
received, (vi) changes in the law and procedure applicable to these
claims, (vii) the financial viability of members of the Payor Group, and (viii) a
determination that our interpretation of the contractual obligations on which
we have estimated our share of liability is inaccurate. We cannot determine the
impact of these potential developments on our   

22     

current
estimate of our share of liability for these existing and future claims.
Accordingly, the actual amount of these liabilities for existing and future
claims could be different than the reserved amount.  

    Carbon Black
Antitrust Litigation    

  During fiscal year 2003, the Company, Phelps Dodge
Corporation, Columbian Chemicals Co., Degussa Engineered Carbons, LP, Degussa
AG, and Degussa Corporation (referred to collectively as the  Defendants ),
were named in fifteen antitrust lawsuits filed in several federal district
courts, one of which was dismissed. The complaints were filed by the plaintiffs
on their own behalf and on behalf of all individuals or entities who purchased
carbon black in the United States directly from the Defendants from
approximately 1999 until the present (the  Period ) and allege that the
Defendants conspired to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize prices for carbon
black sold in the United States during the Period. In their complaint, the
plaintiffs seek treble damages in an unspecified amount and attorneys  fees.
Liability for damages in antitrust cases is joint and several among the
defendants. In August 2003, the pending federal cases were consolidated by
a multi-jurisdictional panel and transferred to the federal court for the
District of Massachusetts. In the second quarter of fiscal 2005, the Defendants
were named in an antitrust lawsuit filed in federal district court in New York.
This action was consolidated with the other pending federal cases. In June 2006,
the Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment. Arguments on the motion
were heard in October 2006. In November 2006, the plaintiffs filed a
pleading seeking the court s approval of a $4 million settlement with the
Degussa defendants. In the pleading, the plaintiffs estimated their total
damages (subject to trebling) to be approximately $100 million. We believe we
have valid defenses to all of these claims, and will continue to assert them
vigorously.  

  During fiscal years 2003
and 2004, the Company and the Defendants were named in nine actions filed in
Superior Court of the State of California on behalf of a purported class of
indirect purchasers of carbon black in the state of California from as early as
November 1998 to the present. During fiscal years 2004 and 2005, the
Company and the above Defendants were named in actions filed in state courts in
the states of Florida, Kansas, Tennessee, South Dakota, North Carolina and New
Jersey on behalf of all indirect purchasers of carbon black in these respective
states. Each of these complaints asserts violations under the applicable state
laws for conduct that is similar to what is alleged in the federal cases
described above. The plaintiffs in the state actions also seek treble damages
in an unspecified amount and attorneys  fees. All nine pending California
actions have been consolidated in the Superior Court in the State of California
(City and County of San Francisco). We believe we have valid defenses to all of
these claims, and will continue to assert them vigorously.  

    Beryllium Claims    

  Cabot is a party to several pending actions in
connection with its discontinued beryllium operations. Cabot entered the
beryllium industry through an acquisition in 1978. We ceased manufacturing
beryllium products at one of the acquired facilities in 1979, and the balance of
our former beryllium business was sold to NGK Metals, Inc. in 1986. During
the last several years, several individuals who have resided or worked for many
years in the immediate vicinity of our former beryllium facility located in
Reading, Pennsylvania have brought suits against Cabot and NGK for personal
injury allegedly caused by beryllium particle emissions produced at that
facility. Nine personal injury claims against Cabot are pending in state court
in Pennsylvania. One of the claims was filed during the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2006. Discovery is ongoing in these cases.  

23  

Since October 2003, approximately 50 individuals
have asserted claims for medical monitoring now pending in numerous
Pennsylvania state court actions. The plaintiffs allege contact with beryllium
in various ways, including residence or employment in the area surrounding the
Reading facility, employment at the Reading facility or contact with
individuals who worked at the Reading facility. Discovery is underway in these
cases. In June 2006, summary judgment was granted to Cabot in connection
with the medical monitoring claims of three of these individuals. The
plaintiffs filed an appeal in July 2006.  

  There are also six beryllium product liability cases
pending in state courts, five of which are pending in California and one of
which is pending in Washington. Four California cases are stayed by court order
pending the testing of the plaintiffs for beryllium exposure, and discovery is
underway in the fifth California case. The Washington case is not active at
this time. In August 2006, a case pending in Florida was voluntarily
dismissed with prejudice by the plaintiffs.  

  In September 2006, Cabot was one of several named
defendants in  Anthony v. Small Tube Manufacturing Corp. et
al. , a class action complaint filed in the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania on behalf of certain present and
former employees of the U.S. Gauge Inc. facility in Sellersville, Pennsylvania.
U.S. Gauge is a company alleged to have purchased the beryllium-containing
products from Cabot. The class action alleges that the present and former
employees were exposed to beryllium dust and fumes during the machining of
beryllium-containing products purchased from Cabot and that they are therefore
entitled to receive medical monitoring. There are three other companies named
as defendants in the case. Cabot has filed an answer, cross-claims and
third-party counterclaims. Discovery in the case has not yet begun.  

  In December 2006, Cabot was one of several named
defendants in  Sheridan et al. v. NGK North
America, Inc., et al ., a class action complaint filed in the Pennsylvania
Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County on behalf of persons who resided
within a one mile radius of the Reading facility for a period of at least six
months between 1950 and 2000. The class action alleges that these persons were
exposed to emissions of beryllium from the Reading plant and are, therefore,
entitled to receive medical monitoring. Cabot has not yet responded to the
complaint and discovery in the case has not yet begun.  

  We believe that we have
valid defenses to all of these beryllium actions and will assert them
vigorously in the various venues in which claims have been asserted. In
addition, there is a contractual indemnification obligation running from NGK to
Cabot in connection with many of these matters.  

    Other Matters    

  On July 29, 2002, AVX Corporation commenced an
action against us in the United States District Court for the District of
Massachusetts. The complaint involved a tantalum supply agreement between Cabot
and AVX, one of our tantalum supply customers, and alleged unfair and deceptive
trade practices, breach of contract and other related matters. This action was
dismissed during fiscal year 2003. In connection with the dismissal, we filed an
action against AVX in the Business Litigation Section of the Superior
Court of Massachusetts seeking declaratory judgment as to the validity of the
supply agreement, as well as a declaration that we are not in breach of an
alleged prior agreement, that Cabot did not engage in unfair and deceptive
trade practices and other related matters. In October 2003, we filed a
motion for summary judgment as to all but one claim in dispute. In June 2004,
the Court granted our partial summary judgment motion regarding these matters,
leaving as the only remaining dispute whether some of the product supplied by
Cabot under the supply agreement with AVX was in conformity with contract
specifications. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, AVX dismissed the
remaining claims regarding product conformity without prejudice. In October 2005,
AVX filed an appeal of the Court s June 2004 decision granting Cabot
partial summary judgment. Oral argument on the appeal is currently scheduled to
be held in January 2007.  

24     

On March 8, 2004, AVX filed another action
against us in the United States District Court for the District of
Massachusetts. This complaint alleged that we violated the federal antitrust
laws in connection with the tantalum supply agreement between Cabot and AVX by
tying the purchase of one type of tantalum product by AVX to the purchase of
other types. In November 2004, the District Court granted Cabot s motion
to dismiss this complaint on procedural grounds. During the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2005, the First Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the District Court s
dismissal and remanded the matter back to District Court. In March 2006,
Cabot again sought dismissal of this action on procedural grounds. The motion
was denied by the District Court in July 2006. Discovery is proceeding in
this matter.  

  On September 6, 2005, AVX filed a lawsuit in the
Superior Court of Massachusetts for Suffolk County alleging that we have
improperly administered our tantalum supply agreement with them. In particular,
AVX claims that we have not provided all of the price relief due to them
pursuant to  most favored nation  ( MFN ) pricing provisions in the agreement.
AVX is seeking a declaration of the rights of the parties to the agreement, an
accounting of monies paid, due or owing under the MFN provisions, and an award
of any sums not paid that should have been. We have filed an answer and a
counterclaim against AVX asserting that AVX has not paid the full amounts for
product in accordance with a proper construction of the MFN provisions. This
action was moved to the Business Litigation Section of the Superior Court
of Massachusetts in November 2005. During all of the litigation described
above, AVX has continued to purchase product under its contract.  

  We believe we have valid defenses to all of AVX s
claims against us and will continue to assert them vigorously.  

  We have various other
lawsuits, claims and contingent liabilities arising in the ordinary course of
our business, including a number of claims asserting premises liability for
asbestos exposure, and in respect of our divested businesses. In our opinion,
although final disposition of some or all of these other suits and claims may
impact our financial statements in a particular period, they should not, in the
aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our financial position.  

   Item 4.                             Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    

  None.  

   Executive Officers
of the Registrant     

  Set forth below is certain information about Cabot s
executive officers. Ages are as of December 6, 2006.  

  Kennett F. Burnes, age 63, is Cabot s Chairman of the
Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Burnes joined Cabot in
1987 as Vice President and General Counsel. He was appointed Executive Vice
President in October 1988, a position he held until 1995. Mr. Burnes
was appointed President of Cabot in 1995 and Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer in 2001. Mr. Burnes also served as Chief Operating
Officer from March 1996 until 2001.  

  Dirk L. Blevi, age 58, is Executive Vice President and
General Manager of the European region and a director of the Company. Mr. Blevi
also has management oversight responsibilities for the aerogel product line and
the Specialty Fluids Business. Mr. Blevi joined Cabot in 1975 as Product
Manager for Cabot s then plastics business, which is now part of our
performance products product line. From 1975 to 1993, Mr. Blevi held a
variety of management positions in the plastics business and in March 1993
became its General Manager. He was appointed Vice President of Cabot in February 1994,
and Executive Vice President and a director in September 2004. Mr. Blevi
has held his current position of General Manager of the European region since January 2000.
 He has exercised management oversight
responsibilities for the aerogel product line since early 2003 and for the
Specialty Fluids Business since July 2006.  

25     

William J. Brady, age 45, is Executive Vice President
and General Manager of Cabot s Carbon Black Business. Mr. Brady joined
Cabot in 1986 as a salesperson for the special blacks product line, which is
now part of performance products. From 1989 until 1997, Mr. Brady held a
variety of special blacks-related management positions. In March 1997, he
was named General Manager of special blacks, a position he held until January 2000.
Mr. Brady was also appointed Vice President of Cabot in March 1997.
From January 2000 to July 2003, Mr. Brady served as General
Manager of the fumed metal oxides product line. Mr. Brady was appointed
Executive Vice President in March 2003, named General Manager of Cabot s
Carbon Black Business in July 2003, and also served as General Manager of
inkjet colorants from July 2004 to November 2005.  

  Jonathan P. Mason, age 48, is Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Mason joined Cabot as Chief Financial
Officer in January 2006 and was appointed Executive Vice President in March 2006.
Prior to joining Cabot, Mr. Mason had served since March 2005 as Vice
President of Finance and Treasurer of International Paper, a global forest
products, paper and packaging company. From 2000 to March 2005, he was
Chief Financial Officer of Carter Holt Harvey, a global paper company in
Auckland, New Zealand, which was partially owned by International Paper during
those years. Before joining International Paper, Mr. Mason worked for
ExxonMobil between 1985 and 1990 in various roles in its Treasury Department.  

  Brian A. Berube, age 44, is Vice President and General
Counsel. Mr. Berube joined Cabot in 1994 as an attorney in Cabot s law
department and became Deputy General Counsel in June 2001. Mr. Berube
was appointed Vice President in March 2002 at which time he was also named
Business General Counsel. Mr. Berube has been General Counsel since March 2003.  

  Eduardo E. Cordeiro, age 39, is Vice President and
General Manager of Cabot s Supermetals Business. Mr. Cordeiro also
co-manages CSMP. Mr. Cordeiro joined Cabot in 1998 as Manager of Corporate
Planning and served in that position until January 2000. Mr. Cordeiro
was Director of Finance and Investor Relations from January 2000 to March 2002,
Corporate Controller from March 2002 to July 2003, and General
Manager of the fumed metal oxides product line from July 2003 to January 2005.
Mr. Cordeiro was appointed Vice President in March 2003 and General
Manager of the Supermetals Business in January 2005.  

  Ravijit Paintal, age 45, is Vice President and General
Manager of the Metal Oxides Business. Mr. Paintal joined Cabot in January 2003
as a member of Cabot s Corporate Planning group and became General Manager of the
aerogel product line in August 2003. Mr. Paintal was appointed
General Manager of fumed metal oxides in January 2005 and Vice President
in March 2005. Before joining Cabot, Mr. Paintal worked with the
Boston Consulting Group as a management consultant and with Schlumberger
Oilfield Services in various international positions.  

26  

PART II     

   Item 5.                             Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equity  
Securities  

  Cabot s
Common Stock is listed for trading (symbol CBT) on the New York and Boston
exchanges. As of December 5, 2006, there were approximately 1,250 holders
of record of Cabot s Common Stock. The price range in which the stock has
traded, as reported on the composite tape, and the quarterly cash dividends for
the past two years are shown below.  

   Stock Price and Dividend Data     

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     

  The table below
sets forth information regarding the Company s purchases of its equity
securities during the quarter ended September 30, 2006:  

(1)             On May 14, 2004,
the Company announced publicly that the Board of Directors had authorized the
repurchase of up to five million shares of the Company s common stock in the
open market or in privately negotiated transactions. This authority does not
have a set expiration date. Included in the shares repurchased from time to
time by Cabot under this authorization are shares of common stock repurchased
from employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations that arise on the vesting
of shares of restricted stock  under the
Company s equity incentive plans. During the fourth fiscal quarter, of the
1,009,531 shares repurchased pursuant to this authorization, 999,943 shares
were repurchased on the open market and 9,588 shares were repurchased from
employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations. From time to time, the
Company also repurchases shares of unvested purchase restricted stock from
employees whose employment is terminated before such shares vest. These shares
are repurchased pursuant to the terms of the Company s equity incentive plans
and are not included in the shares repurchased under the May 2004 Board
authorization. The purchase price for these shares is the employee s original
purchase price for such stock, which under the terms of the Company s long term
incentive compensation program since 1999 has been an amount equal to 30% of
the fair market value of such shares on the date of the grant. During the
fourth fiscal quarter, the Company repurchased 41,134 shares pursuant to the
terms of its equity incentive plans. The average price per share paid for those
shares was $8.93. 

27     

Item
6.                             Selected Financial Data    

28     

(a)              Income (loss) from
operations for 2006 includes charges of $10 million for global restructuring,
$11 million of charges related to the closure of our Altona facility, $3 million
of cost reduction initiatives and a $27 million payment to Sons of Gwalia.
Income (loss) from operations for 2005 includes charges of $16 million for
restructuring and $15 million of charges for cost reduction initiatives in the
Supermetals Business. Income from operations for 2004 includes a charge of $6
million for restructuring, income of $2 million for a reduction of the
respirator reserve and income of $1 million for other recoveries. Income from
operations for 2003 includes charges of $51 million for restructuring, $14
million for acquired in-process research and development, $20 million for a
reserve for respirator claims, $4 million for asset impairments and proceeds of
$4 million for insurance recoveries. Income from operations for 2002 includes a
$5 million charge for the respirator claims liability, a $5 million asset
impairment, a $3 million charge to increase the environmental reserve, an $8
million charge related to the cancellation of an energy project, a $1 million
charge for severance and the benefit of $8 million for insurance recoveries.  

  (b)             Net interest expense and
other (charges) and income for 2006 includes a $8 million charge related to foreign
currency translation adjustment write-off due to the substantial liquidation of
our Altona entity. Other (charges) income for 2005 includes $2 million of
insurance recoveries and $2 million of income related to foreign currency
translation adjustments. Other (charges) income for 2004 includes charges of
$12 million for an investment impairment and $3 million for currency
translation adjustments. Other (charges) income for 2003 includes a $22 million
charge for the impairment of two investments and proceeds of $35 million for
the sale of an equity interest in an investment. Other (charges) income for
2002 includes $2 million of costs related to a currency translation adjustment
at a closed plant and a $1 million charge for non-capitalizable currency
transaction costs related to the acquisition of Cabot Supermetals Japan.  

  (c)              The Company s effective
tax rate for 2006 was a charge of 9%, which includes a $18 million tax benefit
from the settlement of various tax audits during the year. The Company s
effective tax rate for 2005 was a benefit of 48%, which includes the effect of
a $23 million tax settlement benefit. For fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002, the
Company s effective tax rate was 24%, 18% and 22%, respectively. 

  (d)             Discontinued operations
for fiscal 2006 include amounts related to a favorable tax settlement
recognized during the period related to our discontinued liquified natural gas
( LNG ) business. Discontinued operations include the LNG and Cabot
Microelectronics businesses as well as other discontinued businesses. 

  (e)              The weighted average
common shares outstanding for the year ending September 30, 2005 excludes
approximately 8 million shares as those shares would have had an antidilutive
effect due to the Company s net loss position. 

  (f)                Return on investment
is calculated using net income excluding net interest income and (expense)
divided by, the average total debt and stockholders  equity less the average
cash and marketable securities during the periods presented. 

29  

Item 7.                             Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations    

   Overview     

  Cabot s strategy focuses on optimizing our core
businesses and product lines (rubber blacks, performance products, fumed metal
oxides and tantalum) and investing the cash and intellectual resources they
generate in new businesses and product lines (inkjet colorants, cesium formate,
aerogel and Superior MicroPowders).  

  Over the past several years, drivers of demand and
profitability for the Company have differed by business and product line.
Demand for carbon black is driven primarily by vehicle miles driven and general
economic conditions which influence the consumption of products that are
produced using carbon black. Rubber blacks  and performance products  results
have been driven by changes in raw material costs, by our ability to obtain
sales price increases for our products commensurate with increases in raw
material costs and by global and regional capacity utilization. Inkjet
colorants  demand and results have been driven by the use of our pigments by an
increasing number of original equipment inkjet printer manufacturers ( OEM ),
by more printer launches using our pigments at both new and existing OEM
customers and by growth in the inkjet printer cartridge aftermarket. Demand for
fumed metal oxides is largely driven by the construction, automotive and
electronics industries as well as by general consumer product growth. Fumed
metal oxides results have been driven by our traditional silicones and electronics
market segments, by growth in developing regions of the world and by global
fumed silica capacity utilization. Demand for tantalum is largely driven by the
number of electronic devices being produced using tantalum capacitors versus
competing materials. Since 2004, sales in the Supermetals Business have been
transitioning from principally those under fixed-price, fixed-volume contracts
to market-based arrangements. In 2006, sales under these fixed-price contracts
accounted for approximately 30% of sales in the Supermetals Business. Profitability
for the Business has largely been determined by the terms of these supply
contracts, by the cost of ore under our long-term raw materials contracts and
by our ability to implement cost reduction initiatives. Cesium formate demand
is primarily driven by the level of drilling of high pressure oil and gas wells
and by the petroleum industry s acceptance of our product as a drilling and
completion fluid for this application. Results in the Specialty Fluids Business
have been driven by the size and type of jobs and by the percentage of our
total available fluid being utilized in any given period in our principal North
Sea market. Aerogel and Superior MicroPowders are both in their early formative
stages and do not currently generate material revenue.  

  In response to the
movement of tire manufacturing from the developed regions of North America and
Western Europe to emerging regions of the world, we are concentrating our
expansion in these emerging regions to support our customers. As a direct
result of these market conditions and general economic growth in emerging
regions we commissioned a new carbon black manufacturing facility in China and
expanded our carbon black manufacturing capacity in Brazil during 2006. Additionally,
we expanded our fumed silica business in emerging regions by commissioning new
capacity in China during 2006.  

  During 2006, we experienced strong demand for all of
our principal products. The Carbon Black Business experienced strong volume
growth in rubber blacks and inkjet colorants. However, results for this
Business were unfavorably impacted by significant increases in raw material
costs in rubber blacks and performance products, particularly in the first half
of the year, and by lower volumes in performance products due to price
increases we implemented in response to these rising raw material costs. In the
first quarter, we purchased Showa Denko K.K. s 50% joint venture interest in
Showa Cabot K.K. The rubber blacks product line benefited from the
consolidation of the results of that entity during the fiscal year. During the
fourth quarter, we announced a number of cost reduction initiatives, including
the elimination of approximately 130 positions in sales, manufacturing,
technical service and certain functional groups, aimed at reducing the overall
costs in the Company, particularly in the carbon black product lines. In the
Metal Oxides Business there was a shift in sales volumes within the fumed metal
oxides product line, with   

30     

decreases in sales to the
silicones segment being more than offset by increases in sales to the
electronics and niche market segments. Volume growth and high plant utilization
in the fumed metal oxides product line more than offset increases in hydrogen
and natural gas costs and the continued unfavorable earnings impact of business
development efforts in the aerogel product line. The Supermetals Business was
unfavorably impacted by lower prices and volumes during the year due to the
continuing shift in sales from our long-term fixed-price, fixed-volume
contracts to market-based arrangements. During the year, this Business
substantially reduced its inventory, in part by curtailing production. While
this reduction in inventory was part of our working capital initiative, it led
to higher per-unit production costs, which reduced the Business s earnings. In
the second quarter, we entered into a new three-year tantalum ore supply
agreement with the Sons of Gwalia that has a higher price for ore than we paid
under our prior agreement, but at a significantly reduced annual volume
commitment. These negative impacts were partially offset by benefits achieved
from previously initiated efforts to reduce the cost structure of the Business.
In the Specialty Fluids Business, reduced drilling activity in the North Sea
resulted in lower fluid utilization and slightly reduced profitability.  

  Our consolidated working
capital decreased during the year, which increased our operating cash flow. We
focused our efforts on improving our overall working capital position in the
face of higher raw material costs in the carbon black product lines. As a
result of these efforts, we reduced raw material and finished goods inventory
levels in rubber blacks and performance products and in the Supermetals Business.
Working capital and operating cash flow are discussed in more detail in the
cash flow and liquidity section below.  

   Critical Accounting
Policies     

  The preparation of our financial statements requires
management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses and related disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities. We consider an accounting estimate to be
critical to the financial statements if 1) the estimate is complex in nature or
requires a high degree of judgment and 2) different estimates and assumptions
were used, the result could have a material impact on the consolidated
financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our policies and
estimates. We base our estimates on historical experience, current conditions
and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the
circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about
the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent
from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under
different assumptions or conditions. The estimates that we believe are critical
to the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements are presented
below.  

    Revenue Recognition
and Accounts Receivable    

  We derive most of our revenues from the sale of rubber
blacks, performance products, fumed metal oxides, tantalum and related products
and from the rental and sale of cesium formate. Revenue from product sales is
typically recognized when the product is shipped and title and risk of loss
have passed to the customer. Revenue from the rental of cesium formate is
recognized throughout the rental period based on the contracted rental amount.
Customers are also billed and revenue is recognized, typically at the end of
the job, for cesium formate product that is not returned. Other operating
revenues, which represents less than ten percent of total revenues, include
tolling, servicing and royalties for licensed technology.  

  Our revenue recognition policies are in compliance
with Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 104,  Revenue Recognition ,
which establishes criteria that must be satisfied before revenue is realized or
realizable and earned. We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of a sales
arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or
determinable and collectibility is probable. We generally are able to ensure
that products meet customer specifications prior to shipment. If we are unable
to determine that the product has met the specified objective criteria prior to
shipment, the revenue is   

31     

deferred until product
acceptance has occurred. Certain customer contracts contain price protection
clauses that provide for the potential reduction in past or future sales
prices. We analyze these contract provisions to determine if an obligation
related to these clauses exists and record revenue net of any estimated price
protection commitments.  

  Under certain multi-year supply contracts with
declining prices and minimum volumes, we recognize revenue based on the
estimated average selling price over the contract lives. As of September 30,
2006 and 2005, we had less than $1 million and $1 million, respectively, of
deferred revenue related to these supply agreements, representing the
difference between the billed price and the estimated average selling price. The
deferred revenue is expected to be recognized as customers purchase the
contracted minimum volumes through the first quarter of fiscal 2007.  

  Shipping and handling charges related to sales
transactions are recorded as sales revenue when billed to customers or included
in the sales price in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) 00-10,
 Accounting for Shipping and Handling Fees and Costs.  Shipping and handling
costs are included in cost of sales.  

  Our trade receivables are recorded at the invoiced
amount and do not bear interest. Certain receivables in China may be settled
with bank issued non-interest bearing notes. We periodically sell a portion of
these notes receivables in China at a discount. These transactions are
accounted for as sales and the difference between the proceeds from the sale
and the carrying value of the receivables is recognized as a loss on the sale
of receivables.  

  The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on our
assessment of the collectibility of specific customer accounts, the aging of
our accounts receivable and other economic information on both a historical and
prospective basis. Additionally, we estimate sales returns based on historical
trends in our customers  product returns. While bad debt write-offs and product
returns have not been significant historically, if there is a deterioration of
a major customer s credit-worthiness, actual defaults are higher than our
previous experience or actual returns do not reflect historical trends, our
estimates of the recoverability of the amounts due to us and our sales would be
adversely affected.  

    Inventory Valuation    

  The cost of most raw materials, work in process and
finished goods inventories in the U.S. is determined by the last-in, first-out
( LIFO ) method. Had we used the first-in, first-out ( FIFO ) method instead of
the LIFO method for such inventories the value of those inventories would have
been $76 million and $73 million higher as of September 30, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. The cost of other U.S. and all non-U.S. inventories is determined
using the average cost method or the FIFO method.  

  We review inventory for potential obsolescence
recoverability periodically. In this review, we make assumptions about the
future demand for and market value of the inventory and based on these
assumptions estimate the amount of any obsolete, unmarketable or slow moving
inventory. We write down our inventories for estimated obsolescence or
unsaleable inventory by an amount equal to the difference between the cost of
inventory and the estimated market value. In cases where the market value of
inventories is below cost, the inventory is adjusted to its market value.
Historically, such write-downs have not been significant. If actual market
conditions are less favorable than those projected by management at the time of
the assessment, however, additional inventory write-downs may be required,
which could have a negative impact on gross profit.  

    Stock-based
Compensation    

  On October 1, 2005, we adopted FAS No. 123
(R),  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , using the modified prospective
method, which results in the provisions of FAS 123(R) being applied to the
consolidated financial statements on a going-forward basis. Prior periods have
not been adjusted and,   

32     

therefore, the financial
results for 2006 are not necessarily comparable to the same period in prior
years. However, the impact to the prior periods would have been immaterial. FAS
123(R) requires companies to recognize share-based awards granted to
employees as compensation expense on a fair value method. Under the fair value
recognition provisions of FAS 123(R), stock-based compensation cost is measured
at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as
expense over the service period, which generally represents the vesting period.
We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to calculate the fair value of
stock options. The fair value of restricted stock is based on intrinsic value.
In determining the fair value of share-based awards at the grant date we make
judgments with respect to dividends expected to be paid on shares and the
number of share-based awards that may be forfeited.  

    Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets    

  We perform an impairment test for goodwill at least
annually and when events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the
carrying value may not be recoverable. To test whether an impairment exists,
the fair value of the applicable reporting unit is estimated based on
discounted cash flows. The calculation is sensitive to both the estimated
future cash flows and the discount rate. The assumptions used to estimate the
discounted cash flows are based on management s best estimates about selling
prices, production and sales volume, costs, future growth rates, capital
expenditures and market conditions over an estimate of the remaining operating
period at the reporting unit. The discount rate is based on the weighted
average cost of capital that is determined by evaluating the risk free rate of
return, cost of debt and expected equity premiums. If an impairment exists, a
loss to write down the value of goodwill to its implied fair value is recorded.  

    Valuation of
Long-Lived Assets    

  Our long-lived assets primarily include property,
plant, equipment, long-term investments and assets held for rent. We review the
carrying values of long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes
in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not
be recoverable. Such circumstances would include, but are not limited to, a
significant decrease in the market price of the long-lived asset, a significant
adverse change in the way the asset is being used, a decline in the physical
condition of the asset or a history of operating or cash flow losses associated
with the use of the asset.  

  We make various estimates and assumptions when
analyzing whether there is an impairment of our long-lived assets, excluding
goodwill and long-term investments. These estimates and assumptions include
determining which cash flows are directly related to the potentially impaired
asset, the useful life of the asset over which the cash flows will occur, their
amounts and the asset s residual value, if any. An asset impairment exists when
the carrying value of the asset is not recoverable based on the undiscounted
estimated cash flows expected from the asset. The impairment loss is determined
by the excess of the asset s carrying value over its fair value. Our estimated
cash flows reflect management s assumptions about selling prices, production
and sales volume, costs and market conditions over an estimate of the remaining
useful life of the asset.  

33  

The fair values of
long-term investments are dependent on the financial performance of the
entities in which the Company invests and the external factors inherent in the
markets in which they operate. We consider these factors as well as the
forecasted financial performance of the investment entities when assessing the
potential impairment of these investments.  

    Financial
Instruments    

  Our financial instruments
consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term debt,
and derivative instruments. The carrying values of our financial instruments
approximate fair value with the exception of certain long-term debt. The fair
values of our long-term debt and our derivative instruments are based on quoted
market prices. We use derivative financial instruments primarily for purposes
of hedging exposures to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency
exchange rates, which exist as part of our on-going business operations. We do
not enter into contracts for speculative purposes, nor do we hold or issue any
financial instruments for trading purposes. All derivatives are recognized on
the balance sheet at fair value. The changes in the fair value of derivatives
are recorded in earnings or other comprehensive income, based on whether the
instrument is designated as part of a hedge transaction and, if so, the type of
hedge transaction. The gains or losses on derivative instruments reported in
other comprehensive income are reclassified to earnings in the period in which
earnings are affected by the underlying hedged item. The ineffective portion of
all hedges is recognized in earnings in the current period. In accordance with
our risk management strategy, we may enter into certain derivative instruments
that may not be designated as hedges for hedge accounting purposes. Although
these derivatives are not designated as hedges, we believe that such
instruments are closely correlated with the underlying exposure, thus managing
the associated risk. We record in earnings the gains or losses from changes in
the fair value of derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges.  

    Pensions and Other
Postretirement Benefits    

  We maintain both defined
benefit and defined contribution plans for our employees. In addition, we
provide certain health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees.
Plan obligations and annual expense calculations are based on a number of key
assumptions. The assumptions, which are specific for each of our U.S. and
foreign plans, are related to general economic conditions, including interest
rates, expected return on plan assets, and the rate of compensation increases
for employees. Projected health care benefits reflect our assumptions about
health care cost trends. The cost of providing plan benefits also depends on
participant demographic assumptions including assumptions regarding
retirements, mortality, employee turnover and plan participation levels. If
actual experience differs from these assumptions, the cost of providing these
benefits could increase or decrease. Actual results that differ from the
assumptions are generally accumulated and amortized over future periods and,
therefore, affect the recognized expense and recorded obligation in such future
periods.  

    Litigation and
Contingencies    

  Cabot is involved in litigation in the ordinary course
of business, including personal injury and environmental litigation. After
consultation with counsel, as appropriate, we accrue a liability for litigation
when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably
estimated. The estimated reserves are recorded based on our best estimate of
the liability associated with such matters or the low end of the estimated
range of liability if we are unable to identify a better estimate within that
range. Our best estimate is determined through the evaluation of various
information, including claims, settlement offers, demands by government
agencies, estimates performed by independent third parties, identification of
other responsible parties and an assessment of their ability to contribute and
our prior experience. Litigation is highly uncertain and there is always the
possibility of an unusual result in any particular case that may have an
adverse effect on the results of operations.  

34     

The most significant reserves that we have established
are for environmental remediation and respirator litigation claims. As of September 30,
2006, we had $13 million reserved for various environmental matters. The amount
accrued reflects our assumptions about remediation requirements at the
contaminated sites, the nature of the remedies, the outcome of discussions with
regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party
sites and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible
parties. A portion of the reserve for environmental matters is recognized on a
discounted basis, which requires the use of an estimated discount rate and
estimates of future cash flows associated with the liability. These liabilities
can be affected by the availability of new information, changes in the
assumptions on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government
enforcement action or changes in applicable government laws and regulations,
which could result in higher or lower costs.  

  As of September 30,
2006, we also had $18 million accrued for respirator liability claims. Our
current estimate of the cost of our share of existing and future respirator
liability claims is based on facts and circumstances existing at this time.
Developments that could affect our estimate include, but are not limited to, (i) significant
changes in the number of future claims, (ii) a continuation in the recent
trend of dismissals without payment of pending silica and non-malignant asbestos
claims that began this year, (iii) significant changes in the average cost
of resolving claims, (iv) significant changes in the legal costs of
defending these claims, (v) changes in the nature of claims received, (vi) changes
in the law and procedure applicable to these claims, (vii) the financial
viability of other parties who contribute to the settlement of respirator
claims, and (viii) a determination that our interpretation of the
contractual obligations on which we have estimated our share of liability is
inaccurate. While we believe the current best estimate is recorded, we cannot
determine the impact of these potential developments on our current estimate of
our share of liability for these existing and future claims. Accordingly, the
actual amount of these liabilities for existing and future claims could be
different than the reserved amount.  

    Income Taxes    

  We estimate our income taxes in each jurisdiction in
which we are subject to tax. This process involves estimating the tax exposure
for differences between actual results and estimated results and recording the
amount of income taxes payable for the current year and deferred tax assets and
liabilities for future tax consequences. A valuation allowance is established
when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset
will not be realized. We evaluate the realizability of our net deferred tax
assets on a quarterly basis and valuation allowances are provided as required.
In making this assessment, we are required to consider all available positive
and negative evidence to determine whether, based on such evidence, it is more
likely than not that some portion or all of our net deferred assets will be
realized in future periods. This assessment requires significant judgment. In
addition, we have made significant estimates involving current and deferred
income taxes. We analyze our tax positions and do not recognize current and
future tax benefits until it is deemed probable that the tax positions will be
sustained in the respective tax jurisdictions.  

  We have filed our tax
returns in accordance with our interpretations of each jurisdiction s tax laws
and have established reserves for potential differences in interpretation of
those laws. In the event that actual results are significantly different from
these estimates, our provision for income taxes could be significantly
impacted. A 1% change in the effective tax rate would change income tax expense
for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 by approximately $1 million.  

    Significant
Accounting Policies    

  We have other significant
accounting policies that are discussed in Note A of the Notes to our
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 below. Certain of these policies
include the use of estimates, but do not meet the definition of critical
because they generally do not require estimates or judgments that   

35     

are as
difficult or subjective to measure. However, these policies are important to an
understanding of the consolidated financial statements.  

   Results of
Operations     

  Cabot is organized into four reportable segments: the
Carbon Black Business, the Metal Oxides Business, the Supermetals Business ( CSM ),
and the Specialty Fluids Business ( CSF ). The Carbon Black Business is
comprised of the rubber blacks, performance products and inkjet colorants
product lines as well as the business development activities of Cabot Superior
MicroPowders ( CSMP ). The Metal Oxides Business is comprised of the fumed
metal oxides and aerogel product lines.  

  Our analysis of financial
condition and operating results should be read in conjunction with our
Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Unless a calendar
year is specified, all references to years in this discussion are to our fiscal
years ended September 30.  

    Fiscal Year 2006
compared with Fiscal Years 2005 and 2004 Consolidated    

   Net Sales and Gross
Profit   

The $418 million increase in sales in 2006 was
primarily due to higher volumes ($38 million), higher pricing ($246 million)
and the favorable impact of consolidating the results of Cabot Japan ($83
million). These factors were partially offset by the negative impact of foreign
currency translation adjustments ($2 million). In 2005, the $191 million
increase in sales when compared to fiscal 2004 was due to higher volumes ($104
million), higher pricing ($36 million) and the positive impact of foreign
currency translation adjustments ($47 million).  

  Gross margin was 16% in 2006,
20% in 2005 and 25% in 2004. Gross profit decreased in 2006 primarily due to
higher raw material costs in the rubber blacks and performance products product
lines of the Carbon Black Business, lower prices and higher ore costs in the
Supermetals Business, and a $27 million payment made to the Sons of Gwalia
to terminate the then existing supply and other related agreements. These
factors were partially offset by higher prices from feedstock related price
increases in rubber blacks and performance products. The decrease in gross
profit in 2005, when compared to 2004, primarily resulted from higher raw
material costs in rubber blacks and performance products and lower prices in
the Supermetals Business. These factors were partially offset by higher prices
from feedstock related price increases in rubber blacks and performance
products.  

   Selling and
Administrative Expense   

The $5 million decrease in
expense in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to lower administrative
costs ($11 million), principally in the Supermetals Business, including savings
associated with our shared services initiative. Additionally, we experienced a
reduction of costs associated with the implementation of the requirements of Section 404
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ($3 million). These savings were partially
offset by increased spending on our business process excellence ( BPE ) and
shared   

36     

services
initiatives, which are aimed at standardizing our transactional processes and
administering certain functional activities through a shared services model ($9
million). The $23 million increase in 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due
to planned increases in personnel costs ($2 million), incremental costs
associated with a labor dispute at our Supermetals facility in Boyertown,
Pennsylvania ($8 million), an increase in costs related to the implementation
of the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ($5
million) and an increase in spending related to the Company s BPE initiative
($3 million).  

   Research and
Technical Expense   

The $1 million decrease in
2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to reduced research and technical
spending in the Supermetals Business partially offset by increased spending in
the development activities of CSMP. The $6 million increase in 2005 compared to
2004 was principally due to increased spending in the development activities of
CSMP.  

   Interest and
Dividend Income   

Interest and dividend
income decreased by $1 million in 2006 due to lower cash available for interest
earning investments, primarily in the first half, and the liquidation of marketable
securities in the first quarter of 2006.  

   Interest Expense   

The $2 million decrease in
interest expense in 2006 compared to 2005 was due to the repayment of debt in
the U.S., which matured in December 2005, and to the capitalization of
interest related to the construction of our new facilities in China and the
expansion of our existing carbon black facility in Brazil. The decrease in 2005
when compared to 2004 was primarily due to the capitalization of interest
related to the construction of our new carbon black facility in China and the
expansion of our existing facility in Brazil, which was partially offset by
increases in interest expense due to increases in our average debt outstanding
year over year.  

   Other
Income/(Expense)   

37     

The $14 million decrease in other income in 2006 was
primarily due to foreign currency transaction gains and losses, including a
charge of $8 million for the recognition of cumulative foreign currency
translation adjustments related to the substantial liquidation of the legal
entity through which we conducted carbon black operations in Altona, Australia.  

  The $26 million increase
in other income in 2005, when compared to 2004, was primarily due to the
inclusion of $15 million of expense related to certain items in 2004. These
certain items included $12 million related to the write-down of our investment
in the Sons of Gwalia as well as $3 million of charges related to currency
translation adjustments in 2004. Also contributing to the increase in 2005 was
$2 million of income related to insurance recoveries and $2 million of income
related to foreign currency translation adjustments during 2005.  

   Effective Tax Rate   

The provision for income taxes was $9 million for
fiscal 2006, resulting in a 9% effective tax rate on income from continuing
operations. Excluding $18 million in tax benefits resulting from the settlement
of various tax audits during the year, the permanent reinvestment of prior year
earnings of a non-U.S. subsidiary, which reduced tax expense by $3 million in
the third quarter, and a $8 million translation charge for the substantial
liquidation of our Australian entity during the fourth quarter that was not tax
benefited, the effective tax rate would have been approximately 29% for fiscal
2006.  

  The benefit for income taxes  was $45 million for fiscal 2005, resulting in
a 48% effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations. Excluding the $23
million tax settlement in the fourth quarter and the $90 million goodwill
impairment and $121 million long-lived asset impairment charges related to the Supermetals
Business in the second and fourth quarters, respectively, the effective tax
rate would have been approximately 19% for fiscal 2005.  

  The provision for income taxes  was $39 million for fiscal 2004, resulting in
a 24% effective tax rate on income from continuing operations. The income tax
rate reflects the U.S. statutory rate of 35% increased by a charge for a
valuation allowance on the Sons of Gwalia investment loss and reduced for
earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions that were taxed at rates lower than the U.S.
rate, benefits from extraterritorial income exclusion, benefits from U.S.
research and experimentation credits, and the benefit from a tax audit filing
resolved in 2004.   

  The increase in the effective tax rate in 2006 from
2005 was principally the result of the expiration of the U.S. research and
experimentation credit, the phase out of the extraterritorial income exclusion
and an increase in foreign losses for which a current tax benefit was not
available.  

  In the normal course of business, the tax filings of
Cabot and its subsidiaries are examined by various tax authorities, including
the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ). In September 2006, the IRS concluded
its examination of the 2000 to 2002 tax years. The settlement of this audit
resulted in the recording of a tax benefit of $12 million for continuing
operations and $2 million for discontinued operations, recorded in the fourth
quarter of fiscal year 2006. Additionally, during fiscal 2006, there was a tax
benefit of $4 million from the settlement of foreign tax audits. The tax
benefits were related to the reversal of previously recorded reserves. The IRS
is currently auditing the 2003 and 2004 fiscal years.  

38  

Cabot has filed its tax returns in accordance with the
tax laws in each jurisdiction and maintains tax reserves for differences
between tax expense as finally determined and estimated tax expense for
exposures that can be reasonably estimated. In the event that actual results
are significantly different from these estimates, Cabot s provision for income
taxes could be significantly impacted.  

  In addition, we are under audit in a number of
jurisdictions outside of the U.S. It is possible that some of these audits will
be resolved in fiscal 2007 which may impact our effective tax rate in the
periods during which these settlements occur.  

  We have deferred tax assets in
the U.S. of $99 million that we believe are more likely than not recoverable
through expected future taxable operating income in the U.S. However, recovery
is dependent on achieving our forecast of future taxable operating income over
an extended period of time. As of September 30, 2006, we would need to
generate approximately $284 million in cumulative future U.S. taxable operating
income at various times over approximately 20 years to realize all of our net
U.S. deferred tax assets. We review our forecast in relation to actual results
and expected trends on a quarterly basis. Failure to achieve our operating
income targets may change our assessment regarding the recoverability of our
net deferred tax assets and such change could result in a valuation allowance
being recorded against some or all of our U.S. deferred tax assets. Any
increase in a valuation allowance would result in additional income tax
expense, lower stockholders  equity and could have a significant impact on our
earnings in future periods.  

  We expect our effective
tax rate for fiscal 2007 to be between 28% and 31%, before the results of
several on-going audits.  

   Equity in Net Income of Affiliates   

  Our share of earnings from
equity affiliates was $12 million in 2006 and 2005 and $6 million in 2004. In November 2005
we began consolidating the results of Cabot Japan as a wholly owned entity as a
result of acquiring our joint venture partner s, Showa Denko K.K. s, 50%
interest in that entity. The increase in 2005 compared to 2004 was due to
improved operating results in our affiliates in Mexico, Malaysia, Venezuela and
Japan.  

   Discontinued Operations   

  During 2006 we recorded
income from discontinued operations of $2 million ($0.03 per diluted common
share) relating to the favorable settlement of a tax audit recognized during
the fourth quarter from our discontinued liquified natural gas business. We did
not record income or charges related to discontinued operations in 2005. In
2004, we recorded income of $2 million ($0.03 per diluted common share) related
to previously divested businesses. This amount consisted of $1 million related
to insurance proceeds and $1 million from the reversal of tax reserves related
to previously divested businesses.  

39     

Net Income (Loss)   

  We
reported net income for 2006 of $88 million ($1.28 per diluted common
share) compared to a net loss of $48 million (a loss of $0.84 per common
share) in 2005 and net income of $124 million ($1.82 per diluted common share)
in 2004. The following earnings summary highlights the after-tax impact of
certain items and income from discontinued operations:  

Fiscal Year 2006
compared to Fiscal Years 2005 and 2004 By Business Segment    

  The following discussion of our results includes
information on diluted earnings per share, segment and product line sales, and
segment operating profit before taxes ( PBT ). We use segment PBT to measure
our consolidated operating results and to assess segment performance. This
discussion has been prepared on a basis consistent with segment reporting as
outlined in Note U of the Consolidated Financial Statements. (Refer to Note U
of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a definition of segment PBT and
additional segment information.)  We use
the term  Inventory Change  to measure the impact on per-unit fixed and
variable costs associated with increasing or decreasing inventory levels
relative to such increases or decreases in the comparative period. The fixed
and variable costs associated with changes in inventory are excluded from  Raw
Material Costs  and  Fixed Costs  as presented in the tables below.  Fixed
Costs  as presented in the tables below refers to fixed manufacturing costs,
including utilities.  Selling Price Mix  as presented in the discussion of
fumed metal oxides refers to the impact on profitability of changes in the mix
of products sold and their prices in comparative periods.  

  Total
segment PBT, the aggregate of certain items and other unallocated items, and
income from continuing operations before income taxes for fiscal years 2006,
2005 and 2004 are set forth in the table below. The details of certain items
and other unallocated items are shown below and in Note U of our Consolidated
Financial Statements. These items are not included in segment PBT.  

40     

Details
of the certain items for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 are as follows:  

Certain
items for fiscal year 2006, 2005 and 2004 are recorded in the consolidated
statements of operations as follows:  

Details
of other unallocated items for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 are as follows:  

The
impact of various factors on total segment PBT for 2006 when compared to 2005,
and for 2005 when compared to 2004, are as follows:  

41     

The $1 million increase in
total segment PBT in 2006 when compared to 2005 primarily relates to continued
strong demand and higher volumes in our principal businesses, lower
manufacturing and administrative costs in the Supermetals Business and the
favorable impact of our acquisition and consolidation of the results of Cabot
Japan. These factors were partially offset by lower prices and higher ore costs
in the Supermetals Business and higher raw material costs in rubber blacks and
performance products. The $36 million decrease in total segment PBT in 2005
when compared to 2004 principally related to higher raw material costs, higher
per unit costs of production due to lower production rates resulting from
inventory drawdowns, and higher selling and administrative costs. These factors
were partially offset by higher volumes, higher pricing and the positive impact
of foreign currency translation adjustments.  

    Carbon Black
Business    

  Segment
sales and PBT for the Carbon Black Business for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and
2004 are as follows:  

The
impact of various factors on segment sales in the Carbon Black Business for
2006 when compared to 2005, and for 2005 when compared to 2004, are as follows:  

The $427 million increase in sales in the Carbon Black
Business in 2006 from 2005 was primarily due to higher volumes in rubber blacks
and inkjet colorants, higher selling prices associated with feedstock driven
price increases, the positive impact of foreign currency translation
adjustments, and the favorable impact of our acquisition and consolidation of
the results of Cabot Japan. In 2005, the $165 million increase in sales when
compared to 2004 was due to higher volumes, higher prices and the positive
impact of foreign currency translation adjustments.  

  The
impact of various factors on segment PBT in the Carbon Black Business for 2006
when compared to 2005, and for 2005 when compared to 2004, are as follows:  

The $11 million increase
in PBT in the Carbon Black Business in 2006 was principally due to strong
demand in our rubber blacks and inkjet colorants product lines leading to
higher volumes and the positive   

42     

effects
of our acquisition and consolidation of the results of Cabot Japan. These
factors were partially offset by raw material cost increases in excess of price
increases, higher selling, technical and administrative costs, higher costs
associated with our CSMP business development activities and an increase in
fixed costs associated with new production capacity in our inkjet colorants
product line that is not yet being fully commercially utilized. The $20 million
decrease in PBT in 2005 when compared to 2004 was principally due to raw
material cost increases in excess of price increases and higher inventory
related charges, partially offset by higher volumes.  

    Product Line Sales
Summary    

  The
following table sets forth sales by product line for the Carbon Black Business
for 2006, 2005 and 2004:  

Rubber blacks   

  Volumes grew by 4% during 2006, excluding the impact
of Cabot Japan, due to growth in China and other developing regions and a less
than typical seasonal slowdown in the fourth quarter, particularly in Europe.
During 2006 strong volumes and price increases in both our contracted and
non-contracted business offset higher feedstock and natural gas costs allowing
us to maintain relatively stable unit margins. Additionally, the results of
Cabot Japan had a positive impact on the profitability of the product line in
2006.  

  During 2005, the profitability of this product line
was negatively impacted by higher raw material and other energy costs,
principally during the second half of the year, when compared to 2004.  

  Historically, we have been
able to recover increased feedstock costs and, therefore, maintain margins
through the operation of pricing formulas in our annual and long-term supply
contracts. Most of our contracts provide for a price adjustment on the first
day of each quarter to account for changes in feedstock costs and, in some
cases, changes in other relevant costs. The feedstock adjustments are
calculated in the month prior to the beginning of the three-month period in
which the price change is effective, and typically are based upon the average
of a relevant index over the prior three-month period. Because of these
provisions, there is a lag between the time when we incur raw material costs
and the time when changes in those costs are reflected in the contract pricing.  

   Performance products   

  During 2006, volumes decreased by 5% primarily due to
a decline in volume in our lower margin, non-contracted business resulting from
price increases we implemented to respond to rising raw material costs. The
profitability of the product line was also negatively impacted by higher raw
material and energy costs and by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency
translation adjustments. However, during the second half of the year, we saw an
increase in unit margins due to price increases we implemented throughout the
year in response to higher feedstock costs.  

43  

During 2005, volumes grew
by 5% when compared to 2004 primarily due to an increase in sales in the Asia
Pacific and China regions. The profitability of the product line was negatively
impacted, however, by higher raw material and other energy costs. Raw material
cost increases outpaced both contracted and non-contracted price increases
during the fiscal year.  

   Inkjet colorants   

  Inkjet colorants reported a 21% increase in revenue
from 2005 to 2006 due to higher volumes. Volumes for 2006 increased 36% when
compared to 2005. The favorable impact of volume increases was partially offset
by a decrease in our average selling price due to the continued shift from
experimental stage pricing levels to prices more consistent with commercial
sales and some lower selling prices as the business grows. Additionally, higher
fixed costs resulting from new production capacity that is not yet being fully commercially
utilized unfavorably impacted the profitability of the product line during the
second half of 2006. The profitability increased solidly, however, as compared
to 2005.  

  Inkjet colorants reported
a 26% increase in revenue from 2004 to 2005 due to strong volumes in both the
OEM and aftermarket segments. Volumes for 2005 increased by 30% when compared
to 2004. The profitability impact of increasing volumes in 2005 was partially
offset by ongoing investment in both manufacturing and research and development
to support the growth of this product line.  

    Outlook for 2007    

  We anticipate global
demand to remain strong, but are cautious concerning demand in North America. Rubber
blacks volumes in the first quarter of 2007 are being negatively impacted by a
labor stoppage at our customer, Goodyear, in North America. The magnitude
of this impact will be determined by the duration of the strike. Additionally,
recent announcements of tire manufacturing capacity closures indicate a
softening of demand in this important region. We are optimistic about the
continued high utilization of our new carbon black capacity in China, and
expect that our carbon black expansion in Brazil will begin commercial
production by the second half of 2007. In performance products, the return of unit
margins to levels prior to the recent increase in energy costs and the
stabilization of volumes make us optimistic that the results of this product
line will improve during 2007. In the inkjet colorants product line, we
anticipate reduced growth in the small office, home office ( SOHO ) market
segment due to softening in the aftermarket segment as OEM s attempt to
recapture business from aftermarket cartridge manufacturers. We anticipate
printer launches in the high-speed market segment during the second half of 2007,
which could have a significant impact on the volume and performance of the
inkjet colorants product line over the medium to long term. However, we expect
volume growth in this developing market to be slow at first.  

    Metal Oxides
Business    

  Segment
sales and PBT for the Metal Oxides Business for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and
2004 are as follows:  

44     

The
impact of various factors on segment sales in the Metal Oxides Business for
2006 when compared to 2005, and for 2005 when compared to 2004 are as follows:  

In 2006, the $23 million increase in sales in the
Metal Oxides Business when compared to 2005 was primarily due to higher volumes
and favorable selling price mix partially offset by the unfavorable impact of
foreign currency translation adjustments. The $10 million increase in sales in
2005 as compared to 2004 was principally due to higher volumes and the positive
impact of foreign currency translation adjustments partially offset by a
negative price mix.  

  The
impact of various factors on PBT in the Metal Oxides Business for 2006 when
compared to 2005, and for 2005 when compared to 2004 are as follows:  

The $2 million increase in
PBT in 2006 in the Metal Oxides Business as compared to 2005 was principally
due to strong demand in our fumed silica business leading to higher sales
volumes, which more than offset higher costs from rising energy prices. The $2
million decrease in PBT in 2005 from 2004 was principally due to negative price
mix, higher per-unit costs of production, resulting from lower operating rates
due to inventory drawdowns, and inventory write-offs related to off-quality
material, partially offset by higher volumes.  

    Product Line Sales
Summary    

  The
following table sets forth sales by product line for the Metal Oxides Business
for 2006, 2005 and 2004:  

Fumed metal oxides   

  During 2006, the fumed metal oxides product line saw
an increase in overall volumes of 9% driven by growth in the electronics and
niche market segments, which more than offset a decline in volumes in the
silicones market segment. This volume growth and strong plant utilization,
including at our new plant in   

45     

Jiangxi, China, which is
now operating in excess of 90% of its designed capacity, more than offset
higher hydrogen and natural gas costs during the year.  

  During 2005, volumes
increased by 3% as reduced demand from a single customer in the electronics
segment was more than offset by higher volumes to other market segments. The
resulting negative price mix combined with higher energy costs, higher per-unit
fixed costs of production due to inventory drawdowns, and write-offs associated
with off-quality material, to adversely impact the profitability of the product
line during 2005.  

   Aerogel   

  Although volume growth has been slower than
anticipated, the aerogel product line made progress in operating the plant at
higher rates during the second half of the year. Additionally, market
development progress continues in both the daylighting and oil and gas
insulation markets. Manufacturing and product development spending for this
opportunity totaled $21 million in 2006 and the assets of the product line
totaled $28 million at September 30, 2006.  

  During the third quarter
of 2006, we entered into a cross license agreement with Aspen Aerogel, Inc.
where each party granted certain patent rights to the other. In consideration
for use of the patents granted by Cabot, the agreement calls for us to receive
$8 million of cash in ten equal semi-annual payments beginning on September 1,
2006 and the right to receive equity in Aspen. During the fourth quarter of
2006 the first installment payment was received and recorded in income. The
remaining $7.2 million will be recognized when collection is reasonably assured.
No amount has been recorded to date for the equity related consideration
because of the contingent nature of this arrangement.  

    Outlook for 2007    

  We remain optimistic about
continued strong demand to support our new fumed silica capacity and anticipate
strong utilization of our facilities through at least the first half of 2007. In
the aerogel product line, we continue to work on market development in both the
daylighting and oil and gas insulation markets.  

    Supermetals
Business    

  Segment
sales and PBT for the Supermetals Business for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004
are as follows:  

The
impact of various factors on segment sales in the Supermetals Business for 2006
when compared to 2005, and for 2005 when compared to 2004 are as follows:  

In the Supermetals Business, the $54 million decrease
in sales from 2005 to 2006 was driven by lower volumes and lower prices as the
business transitions from fixed price, fixed volume contracts to market-based
arrangements. The $8 million increase in sales from 2004 to 2005 was driven by
increased volumes as   

46     

we were able to more than
offset lower contract volumes with market-based volumes. These increased
volumes were partially offset by lower prices.  

  The
impact of various factors on PBT in the Supermetals Business for 2006 when
compared to 2005, and for 2005 when compared to 2004 are as follows:  

The $11 million decrease in PBT in the Supermetals
Business from 2005 to 2006 was primarily due to lower volumes and lower pricing
as a more significant portion of our sales in this Business during the year
were made under market-based arrangements. During the year we also paid higher
raw material costs under our new three-year tantalum ore supply contract with
the Sons of Gwalia than under our previous agreement. Higher per unit costs of
production resulting from lower operating rates due to inventory drawdowns were
partially offset by lower manufacturing and administrative costs from
initiatives undertaken in 2005. Additionally, lower fixed costs, principally
depreciation, benefited the Business results during 2006. The $25 million
decrease in PBT from 2004 to 2005 was principally due to lower pricing, higher
per unit costs of production resulting from lower operating rates, and
incremental costs from a labor dispute at our Boyertown, Pennsylvania facility,
which are included in fixed costs. These factors were partially offset by
higher volumes.  

  During 2006, we settled our dispute with the Sons of
Gwalia over the price we were to pay for tantalum ore under a then existing
supply agreement. Under the settlement, the companies entered into a new
three-year tantalum ore supply agreement that incorporates a reduced term,
significantly reduced annual volume commitments and higher prices than under
the prior agreement, and we made a lump sum payment of $27 million to terminate
the prior supply and other related agreements.  

  During 2005, the
Supermetals Business recorded charges associated with the impairment of its
long-lived assets (including goodwill) totaling $211 million. Additionally,
during 2005, the Supermetals Business recorded a charge of $15 million
associated with on-going cost reduction initiatives in that Business, including
$8 million of asset write-downs associated with management s decision to stop
manufacturing and selling finished tantalum sputtering targets, $3 million of
charges related to severance arrangements and $3 million of charges associated
with the write-down of assets related to abandoned research and development
projects.  

    Outlook for 2007    

  While we anticipate a step
down in profitability of the Supermetals Business beginning in the second
quarter of 2007 as the last of our significant fixed-price, fixed-volume
contracts expires in December 2006, we anticipate the Business to remain profitable.
While we will continue to experience high ore costs in 2007 under our contract
with the Sons of Gwalia , we expect these costs to be partially offset by
benefits from cost reduction efforts we initiated in 2006. Additionally, we are
committed to generating cash in excess of PBT through a continuation of our
efforts to improve working capital.  

47     

Specialty Fluids
Business    

  Segment
sales and PBT for the Specialty Fluids Business for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and
2004 are as follows:  

Sales in the Specialty Fluids Business increased 10%
($4 million) in 2006 when compared to 2005 driven mainly by higher volumes of
fluid sold resulting from a higher percentage of fluid losses by a customer,
which more than offset fewer rental days. In 2005, sales increased by $13
million when compared to 2004 due to an increase in the number of customers, an
increase in the number of on-going and completed jobs during the year and an
increase in the average amount of fluid utilized per job. The percentage of
fluid lost in jobs performed in 2006, which is highly dependent upon the size
and types of jobs, was approximately 18%, compared to 13% in 2005.  

  The PBT for this Business
decreased by $1 million in 2006 when compared to 2005 principally due to
reduced drilling activity in the North Sea. In particular, lower rental
revenues were due to one large job in the second half of 2005 that was not
replicated in 2006. In general, rental revenues have a higher profit margin
than fluid sold. Therefore, despite an increase in overall revenues during the
year this decrease in rental revenues unfavorably impacted segment PBT. During
the year the Business successfully completed one appraisal well in Argentina,
which has led to the planning of two additional wells there. Segment PBT
increased by $11 million in 2005 when compared to 2004 due to increased fluid
utilization, a larger number of jobs completed and higher prices. Utilization
of our total available fluid inventory was 12% in 2006, compared to 14% in 2005
and 9% in 2004. During 2006 we completed 23 jobs, compared to 26 jobs in 2005
and 15 jobs in 2004.  

    Outlook for 2007    

  We continue to work on
market development activities outside of the North Sea. As a result of our
success to date in Argentina we are increasingly optimistic about the continued
growth of this Business in 2007 and thereafter.  

   Cash Flow and Liquidity     

    Overview    

  Our cash balance increased
by $8 million in 2006, from $181 million on September 30, 2005 to $189
million on September 30, 2006. The increase in cash was largely due to a
significant reduction in inventories and increased net income before adding
back non-cash items. These increases were partially offset by four major uses
of cash during this year: increases in accounts receivable mainly resulting
from feedstock related price increases, the acquisition of the remaining 50% of
our carbon black joint venture in Japan, a settlement payment of $27 million to
the Sons of Gwalia in our Supermetals Business and capital spending to expand
capacity in emerging markets and to comply with environmental requirements.
During 2005, the cash balance increased by $22 million, from $159 million on September 30,
2004 to $181 million on September 30, 2005. In 2004 our cash balance
decreased by $88 million, from $247 million on September 30, 2003. The
following descriptions of the reasons for these changes in our cash balances
refer to the various sections of our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,
which appears in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended September 30, 2006.  

48     

Cash Flows from Operating Activities    

  Cash provided from operating
activities, which consists of net income adjusted for the various non-cash
items included in income, changes in working capital and changes in certain
other balance sheet accounts, totaled $252 million during the fiscal year
2006 compared to $218 million during fiscal 2005. The increase in 2006
versus 2005 was primarily due to inventory reductions in our Carbon Black and
Supermetals Businesses more than offsetting an increase in accounts receivable
and lower net income, which included the $27 million settlement payment to
the Sons of Gwalia.  The asset and
goodwill impairment charges in 2005 did not affect overall operating cash flows
during that year, but lowered net income by $176 million, through the deferred
tax benefit (increase of $45 million) and asset impairment charge (decrease of $221 million).
 Cash from operating activities decreased
during fiscal 2005 to $218 million from $241 million in fiscal 2004. After
excluding the effect of the non-cash impairment charges, net income in 2005 and
2004 was approximately equal.  

    Cash Flows from Investing Activities      

  Cash flows from investing
activities consumed $165 million of cash in 2006 as compared to $119 million
in 2005 and $226 million in 2004. The increased use of cash in investing
activities during fiscal 2006 of $46 million was primarily due to a lower
level of net redemption of marketable securities investments of $36 million in
2006 compared to $70 million in 2005. In addition, Cabot purchased the remaining
50% equity interest in Cabot Japan that we did not previously own.  Cash consumed in 2005 dropped by $107 million
from the $226 million consumed in 2004 primarily due to net redemption of
marketable securities of $175 million in 2005. This benefit was partly offset
by a $67 million increase in capital expenditures in 2005. In both 2005 and
2006, capital spending increased due to construction of facilities at our new
Tianjin, China carbon black facility and our new Jiangxi, China metal oxides facility
as well as an expansion of our Maua, Brazil carbon black facility and our
Haverhill, Massachusetts inkjet colorants facility. Capital expenditures for
2007 are expected to be approximately $150 million and include replacement
projects, plant expansions and the completion of projects started in fiscal
year 2006.  

    Cash
Flows from Financing Activities      

  Cash flows from financing activities consumed $82 million
in 2006, $75 million in 2005, and $101 million in 2004. In all three years,
financing cash flows were primarily driven by changes in our debt position,
dividend payments, and repurchases of our common stock. In 2006, a portion of
our debt change was related to the assumption of debt from Cabot Japan, where
we consolidated $26 million of debt when we increased our ownership
interest from 50% to 100%. The Company repaid $25 million of this debt during
fiscal 2006.  

  In May 2004, the Board of Directors authorized
Cabot to purchase up to 5 million shares of our common stock. Under that and
the prior repurchase authorization, which was terminated in May 2004, we
repurchased approximately 1.1 million, 1.6 million, and 1.7 million shares of
our common stock for approximately $40 million, $52 million, and $54 million in
2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Approximately 1.6 million shares of common
stock are available to be purchased under the current Board of Directors share
repurchase authorization.  

  During 2006, 2005 and 2004, we paid cash dividends of
$0.64, $0.64, and $0.60, respectively, per share of common stock. On December 8,
2006 we paid  a quarterly dividend of
$0.18 per share to holders of the Company s common stock on November 24,
2006. This represented a $0.02 per share increase in the quarterly dividends
paid in 2006 and 2005.  

  We are not involved in any transactions, arrangements
or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are
reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of or   

49     

requirements for capital
resources. We are not involved in any trading activities involving commodity
contracts that are accounted for at fair value.  

  Management expects cash on
hand, cash from operations and present financing arrangements, including our
unused lines of credit, to be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for at
least the next twelve months and the foreseeable future.  

    Contractual
Obligations    

  The
following table sets forth our long-term contractual obligations which are
described in greater detail below.  

(1)                   Includes capital
lease obligations of $3 million over the years presented. 

    Purchase
commitments    

  We have long-term purchase
commitments for raw materials with various key suppliers in the Carbon Black,
Metal Oxides and Supermetals Businesses.  

    Off-balance sheet
arrangements    

  Cabot has no material
transactions that meet the definition of an off-balance sheet arrangement.  

    Long-term debt and
fixed interest    

  At September 30, 2006, our long-term debt totaled
$493 million, which matures at various times over the next 21 years. Included
in this amount is $79 million of Japanese yen based long-term debt. All other
long-term debt is denominated in U.S. dollars, however, a $175 million bond
issued in U.S. dollars was swapped to a Euro-based debt instrument. The
repayment schedule above does not include the effect of interest rate swaps,
which had a favorable fair value of $1 million at September 30, 2006.
The weighted-average interest rate on long-term debt is 5.5%.  

50  

Under our revolving credit facility we may borrow up
to $400 million. The revolving line of credit permits us to borrow funds on an
unsecured basis in multiple currencies that are freely tradable and convertible
into U.S. dollars at floating interest rates. The credit facility expires in August of
2010. As of September 30, 2006 we have 9.3 billion Japanese yen ($79
million) borrowings outstanding and $13 million in standby letters of credit
under this agreement. The remaining availability under the revolving credit
facility as of September 30, 2006 is approximately $307 million. The
credit facility contains various affirmative, negative and financial covenants
which are customary for financings of this type, including financial covenants
for certain maximum indebtedness and minimum cash flow requirements. As of September 30,
2006, we were in compliance with all of our covenants.  

  At September 30, 2006, in addition to the $13
million of standby letters of credit issued under our revolving credit
facility, we have provided standby letters of credit totaling $17 million,
which expire in fiscal 2007.  

  A downgrade of one level
in our credit rating is not anticipated, but should it occur, it would not
cause a significant impact on the commitments or sources of capital described
above and would not have a material impact on our results of operations.  

    Operating leases    

  We have operating leases
primarily comprised of leases for transportation vehicles, warehouse
facilities, office space, and machinery and equipment.  

    Restructuring    

  In September 2006, we announced a number of cost
reduction initiatives. These initiatives include streamlining Cabot s sales,
manufacturing, technical service and certain functional groups through a
workforce reduction. Implementation of these initiatives began in September 2006
and is expected to conclude during the course of fiscal year 2007. The total
number of employees impacted by the cost reductions is expected to be
approximately 130 people, with the majority having left the Company on or
before September 30, 2006. Termination
and related benefits costs associated with this restructuring have been and
will be recorded in accordance with FAS 112,   Employers  Accounting for
Postemployment Benefits  ( FAS 112 ) or FAS 146 ,   Accounting
for the Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities  ( FAS 146 ), as
appropriate. The total charge related to these initiatives was $10
million for the twelve months ended September 30, 2006. We expect to
record an additional $3 million in connection with the restructuring and make
cash payments of $12 million during fiscal 2007.  

  In October 2004, we initiated a plan to shut down
our Altona, Australia carbon black manufacturing facility due to our raw
materials supplier s indication that it would cease supply in September 2005,
as well as the decline of the carbon black business in Australia. Production at
this facility ceased on October 3, 2005. As of September 30, 2006,
substantial liquidation of the entity has been completed, therefore, an $8
million non-cash charge for the cumulative foreign currency translation
adjustment has been realized. We have recorded $28 million of charges related
to this closure in the consolidated statements of operations since October 2004,
and have $2 million of remaining reserves recorded as of September 30,
2006. The total charges are expected to be partially offset by gains on the
sale of the land on which the facility was located, which is estimated to be
between $7 million and $10 million and is expected to occur during fiscal 2007.
We expect that the remaining $2 million of reserves will be paid during
fiscal 2007 in connection with the closure, demolition, remediation and
restoration of the property.  

  In fiscal 2003, we initiated a European restructuring
plan to reduce costs, enhance customer service and create a stronger and more
competitive organization. The European restructuring initiatives were primarily
related to the Carbon Black Business and included the closure of our carbon
black manufacturing facility in Zierbena, Spain, the consolidation of
administrative services for all European   

51     

businesses in one shared
service center, the implementation of a consistent staffing model for all
manufacturing facilities in Europe, and the discontinuance of two energy
projects. As of September 30, 2006, we have recorded $55 million of
European restructuring charges, of which less than $1 million remains to be
paid out during fiscal 2007.  

  At September 30,
2006, $12 million of restructuring costs remain in accrued expenses in the consolidated
balance sheet. We made cash payments of $14 million in 2006, $10 million in
2005 and $15 million in 2004 related to restructuring costs, and expect to make
cash payments of $15 million in fiscal 2007 related to severance and employee
benefits charges and site remediation costs.  

    Employee Benefit
Plans    

  We provide defined benefit
plans for all U.S. and some foreign employees. We have an unfunded status of
approximately $151 million as of September 30, 2006 for consolidated
defined benefit plans and postretirement benefit plans. For further information
regarding our employee benefit plans, refer to Note M in our Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

   Defined Benefit Plans   

  At September 30,
2006, the funded status of the defined benefit pension plans are comprised of
the following:  

Our significant foreign plans are for employees in The
Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Canada, which collectively represented 80%
of the consolidated projected benefit obligation of total foreign plan pension
obligations at September 30, 2006. For those significant foreign plans,
the fair value of assets was approximately $18 million below the projected
benefit obligation. We are significantly underfunded in the foreign defined
benefit plan obligations because we are not required to fund certain foreign
plans. We contributed an aggregate amount of $9 million in 2006 to these
significant foreign plans and expect to contribute approximately $8 million in
2007 to those plans. Contributions to foreign plans are made in foreign
currencies and, therefore, are subject to fluctuations in exchange rates.  

  We also have assets of $13 million at September 30,
2006 that we have designated to fund pension obligations for a foreign plan.
These assets are not included in the pension plan assets as of September 30,
2006. These assets do not qualify as plan assets under FAS No. 87,  Employers 
Accounting for Pensions , because they are not specifically segregated or
restricted for use to fund the defined benefit plan obligation, and,
accordingly, the assets are not shown in the funded status at September 30,
2006. These assets are included in other long term assets on the consolidated
balance sheets.  

  Cabot made a discretionary
contribution of less than $1 million in fiscal 2006 to fund benefit payments
under Cabot s Supplemental Cash Balance Plan ( SCBP ), a U.S. defined benefit
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. We routinely review the funding status
of the defined benefit plans to determine when a contribution will improve the
overall position of the plan and as a result we expect to make a $1 million
contribution to fund benefit payments under the SCBP in fiscal 2007.  

52     

Postretirement Benefit Plans   

  At September 30,
2006, the funded status of the postretirement benefit plans are comprised of
the following:  

Cabot s postretirement
benefit plans provide certain health care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees. Typical of such plans, the Cabot postretirement plans are
unfunded. Costs associated with these plans are recorded as expense in the
statement of operations when claims or insurance premiums come due. In the
U.S., Cabot established a per retiree cap on the amount Cabot would contribute
to retiree medical costs to limit the Company s financial responsibility for
these costs and to mitigate the risk of potential escalation in costs borne by
Cabot for retiree medical coverage. We paid benefits under these plans of $8
million in the U.S. and less than $1 million outside of the U.S. during
fiscal 2006. We expect to pay $8 million under the U.S. plans and $1 million
under the foreign plans during 2007.  

    Environmental and
Litigation    

  Cabot has a $13 million
reserve for environmental matters as of September 30, 2006 for remediation
costs at various environmental sites. These sites are primarily associated with
businesses divested in prior years. We anticipate that the expenditures at
these sites will be made over a number of years, and will not be concentrated in
any one year. Additionally, we have recorded an $18 million reserve for
respirator claims as of September 30, 2006 and we estimate total payments
of approximately $12 million over the next five years. We have other litigation
costs associated with lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business
including claims filed against the Company in connection with certain
discontinued operations.  

  Management expects cash on
hand, cash from operations and present financing arrangements, including our
unused lines of credit, to be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for at
least the next twelve months and the foreseeable future.  

   Newly Issued
Accounting Pronouncements     

  In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108
(Topic 1N),  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when
Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements  ( SAB 108 ). SAB
108 provides guidance on the consideration of the effects of prior year
misstatements in quantifying current year misstatements for the purpose of
determining whether the current year s financial statements are materially
misstated. SAB 108 is effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2007.
The adoption of SAB 108 is not expected to have a material impact on the
Company s consolidated financial statements.  

  In September 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 157,
 Fair Value Measurements  ( FAS 157 ). FAS 157 provides guidance for using fair
value to measure certain assets and liabilities and requires additional disclosure
about the use of fair value measures and the effect fair-value measurements
have on earnings. The primary areas in which the Company utilizes fair value
measures are valuing pension plan assets and liabilities, valuing hedge-related
derivative financial instruments, allocating purchase price to the assets and
liabilities of acquired companies, and evaluating long-term assets for
potential impairment. FAS 157 does not require any new fair value measurements.
FAS 157 is effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2008. The
Company is currently evaluating the impact of FAS 157 on its financial
statements.  

53     

In September 2006, the FASB
issued FAS No. 158,  Employer s Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88,
106, and 132(R)  ( FAS 158 ). FAS 158  requires an employer to recognize
the funded status of a benefit plan, measured as the difference between plan
assets at fair value and the projected benefit obligation, in its statement of
financial position. FAS 158 also requires an employer to measure defined
benefit plan assets and obligations as of the date of the employer s fiscal
year-end. FAS 158 is effective for the
Company for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2007. The Company is
currently evaluating the impact of FAS 158 on its financial statements.  

  In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48,
 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of FASB Statement
109  ( FIN 48 ), which prescribes a comprehensive model for how a company
should recognize, measure, present and disclose in its financial statements
uncertain tax positions that the company has taken or expects to take on a tax
return, including a decision whether or not to file a return in a particular
jurisdiction. Under this new guidance, the financial statements will reflect
expected future tax consequences of such positions presuming the taxing
authorities  full knowledge of the position and all relevant facts, but without
considering time values. This guidance also revises disclosure requirements and
introduces a prescriptive, annual, tabular roll-forward of unrecognized tax
benefits. FIN 48 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15,
2006, which will be fiscal 2008 for Cabot. Cabot is in the process of
evaluating the impact of adoption of FIN 48 on its consolidated financial
statements.  

  In June 2006, the FASB ratified the consensus reached
by the EITF in Issue No. 06-3,  How Taxes Collected from Customers
and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income
Statement (That Is, Gross versus Net Presentation)  ( EITF 06-3 ). The
scope of this issue includes any tax assessed by a governmental authority that
is directly imposed on a revenue-producing activity between a seller and a
customer and may include, but is not limited to, sales, use, value-added, and
some excise taxes. EITF 06-3 requires the disclosure of the method of
accounting for the applicable assessed taxes and the amount of assessed taxes
that are included in revenues if they are accounted for under the gross method
and are significant. EITF 06-3 is effective for interim and annual
reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company does not
expect the adoption of EITF 06-3 in fiscal 2007 to have an impact on its
consolidated financial statements.  

  In October 2004, the
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ( AJCA ) was signed into law. Among other
things, the AJCA allowed U.S. companies a one-time election to repatriate
certain earnings from their foreign subsidiaries in 2006 at an effective tax
rate of 5.25%. The Company did not believe there to be a material benefit
available to it given Cabot s particular circumstances and the various
requirements under the law and, accordingly, did not elect to repatriate any
foreign earnings.  

54  

Item 7A.                     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

  We
are exposed to  changes in interest rates
and foreign currency exchange rates because we finance certain operations
through long- and short-term borrowings and denominate our transactions in a
variety of foreign currencies. Changes in these rates and prices may have an
impact on future cash flow and earnings. We manage these risks through normal
operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the
use of derivative financial instruments.  

  We
have policies governing our use of derivative instruments. We do not enter into
financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes, and all of the
derivative instruments we enter into are reviewed and approved by our Financial
Risk Management Committee, an internal management committee responsible for
overseeing Cabot s financial risk management policy.  

  By using derivative instruments, we are subject to
credit and market risk. The fair market value of the derivative instruments is
determined by a quoted market price and reflects the asset or (liability) position
as of September 30, 2006. If a counterparty fails to fulfill its
performance obligations under a derivative contract, our credit risk will equal
the fair value of the derivative. Generally, when the fair value of a
derivative contract is positive, the counterparty owes Cabot, thus creating a
payment risk for Cabot. We minimize counterparty credit (or repayment) risk by
entering into transactions with major financial institutions of investment
grade credit rating. Our exposure to market risk is not hedged in a manner that
completely eliminates the effects of changing market conditions on earnings or
cash flow.  

    Interest Rate Risk    

  As of September 30,
2006, we had long term debt, including the current portion, totaling $493
million, which has both variable and fixed interest rate components. We have
entered into interest rate swaps as a hedge of the underlying debt instruments
to effectively change the characteristics of the interest rate without changing
the debt instrument. For fixed rate debt, interest rate changes affect the fair
market value, but do not impact earnings or cash flows. Conversely, for
floating rate debt, interest rate changes generally do not affect the fair
market value, but do impact future earnings and cash flows, assuming other
factors are held constant. We endeavor to maintain a certain fixed-to-floating
interest rate mix on our long-term debt. As most of our long term debt was
issued at fixed rates, we use interest rate swaps to achieve the desired
fixed-to-floating interest rate mix. Additionally, in certain regions where we
have stable cash flows and low interest rates relative to the incremental
corporate borrowing rate, we generally lock-in a fixed interest rate on our
debt in that region. This has been achieved by entering into floating-to-fixed
interest rate swap agreements. The table below summarizes the principal terms
of our interest rate swap transactions, including the notional amount of the
swap, the interest rate payment we receive from and pay to our swap
counterparty, the term of the transaction, and its fair market value at September 30,
2006.  

55     

Foreign Currency
Risk    

  Cabot s international operations are subject to
certain risks, including currency exchange rate fluctuations and government
actions. In general, we endeavor to match the currency in which we issue debt
to the currency of our major, stable cash receipts. In some situations we have
issued debt denominated in U.S. dollars and then entered into cross currency
swaps that exchange our dollar principal and interest payments into a currency
where we expect long-term, stable cash receipts. In one case, we have borrowed
against our revolving credit facility in Japanese yen. This debt is designated
as a net investment hedge to offset currency fluctuations associated with the
investments we have made in our Japanese subsidiaries. The following table
summarizes the principal terms of  our
long-term foreign currency  swap
transactions, including the notional amount of the swap,  the interest rate payment we receive from and
pay to our swap counterparty, the term of the transaction and its fair market
value at September 30, 2006.  

Foreign currency exposures also relate to current
assets and current liabilities denominated in foreign currencies other than the
functional currency of a given subsidiary as well as the risk that currency
fluctuations could affect the dollar value of future cash flows generated in
foreign currencies. Accordingly, we use short-term forward contracts to
minimize the exposure to foreign currency risk. These forward contracts
typically have a duration of 30 days. In 2006 and 2005, none of our forward
contracts were designated as hedging instruments. Our forward foreign exchange
contracts are denominated primarily in the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound
sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar and Indonesian rupiah.  

  In
certain situations where we have a long-term commitment denominated in a
foreign currency we will enter into either forwards or option contracts to buy
the currency in the case where we have a payable or sell the currency in the
case where we have a receivable. In this manner we offset the currency risk
associated with the long-term obligation. During 2006, we entered into a series
of call options to buy the Australian dollar to mitigate the currency risk
associated with our new three-year tantalum ore supply agreement. The principal
terms of the call options are outlined in the table below.  

56  

Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data     

   INDEX
TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

57  

CABOT CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.      58  

CABOT CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   
ASSETS   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.      59  

CABOT CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.      60  

CABOT CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.      61  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS 
EQUITY   
Years ended September 30 
(In millions, except per shares in thousands)   

Preferred Stock, net of Treasury Stock   

Common Stock, net of Treasury Stock   

Additional 
  Paid-In   

Retained   

Unearned   

Deferred 
  Employee   

Notes 
  Receivable 
  for 
  Restricted   

Accumulated 
  Other 
  Comprehensive   

Total 
  Stockholders    

Total 
  Comprehensive   

Shares   

Cost   

Shares   

Cost   

Capital   

Earnings   

Compensation   

Benefits   

Stock   

Loss   

Equity   

Income   

2004   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these financial statements.   

62  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS 
EQUITY   
Years ended September 30 
(In millions, except per shares in thousands)   

Preferred 
  Stock, net of 
  Treasury Stock   

Common 
  Stock, net of 
  Treasury Stock   

Additional 
  Paid-In   

Retained   

Unearned   

Deferred 
  Employee   

Notes 
  Receivable 
  for 
  Restricted   

Accumulated 
  Other 
  Comprehensive   

Total 
  Stockholders    

Total 
  Comprehensive   

Shares   

Cost   

Shares   

Cost   

Capital   

Earnings   

Compensation   

Benefits   

Stock   

Loss   

Equity   

Income   

2005   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these financial statements.   

63  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS 
EQUITY   
Years ended September 30 
(In millions, except per shares in thousands)   

Preferred Stock, net of 
  Treasury Stock   

Common Stock, net of 
  Treasury Stock   

Additional 
  Paid-In   

Retained   

Unearned   

Deferred 
  Employee   

Notes 
  Receivable 
  for 
  Restricted   

Accumulated 
  Other 
  Comprehensive   

Total 
  Stockholders    

Total 
  Comprehensive   

Shares   

Cost   

Shares   

Cost   

Capital   

Earnings   

Compensation   

Benefits   

Stock   

Income (Loss)   

Equity   

Income   

2006   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these financial statements.   

64  

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements     

   Note A. Significant
Accounting Policies     

  The consolidated financial
statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. The significant accounting policies of
Cabot Corporation ( Cabot  or  the Company ) are described below.  

    Principles of Consolidation    

  The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Cabot and majority-owned and controlled U.S.
and non-U.S. subsidiaries. Additionally, Cabot considers consolidation of
entities over which control is achieved through means other than voting rights,
of which there were none in the periods presented. Intercompany transactions
have been eliminated in consolidation.  

    Cash and Cash Equivalents    

  Cash equivalents include
all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at date
of acquisition. The cash balance excludes checks issued but not paid of $8 million
and $9 million that are included in notes payable to banks on the consolidated
balance sheets at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

    Inventories    

  Inventories are stated at
the lower of cost or market. The cost of most U.S. inventories is determined
using the last-in, first-out ( LIFO ) method. The cost of other U.S. and all non-U.S.
inventories is determined using the average cost method or the first-in,
first-out ( FIFO ) method.  

    Investments    

  The Company has
investments in equity affiliates and marketable securities as well as
investments accounted for at cost. As circumstances warrant, all investments
are subject to periodic impairment reviews. Unless consolidation is required,
investments in equity affiliates, where Cabot generally owns between 20% and
50% of the affiliate, are accounted for using the equity method. Cabot records
its share of the equity affiliate s results of operations based on its
percentage of ownership of the affiliate. Dividends received from equity
affiliates are a return on investment and recorded as a reduction to the equity
investment value. All investments in marketable securities are classified as
available-for-sale and are recorded at their fair market values with the
corresponding unrealized holding gains or losses, net of taxes, recorded as a
separate component of other comprehensive income (loss) within stockholders 
equity. Unrealized losses that are determined to be other than temporary, based
on current and expected market conditions, are recognized in net income. The
fair value of marketable securities is determined based on quoted market prices
at the balance sheet dates. The cost of marketable securities sold is
determined by the specific identification method. Investments that do not have
readily determinable market values are recorded at cost. Short-term investments
consist of investments in marketable securities with maturities of one year or
less.  

    Property, Plant and Equipment    

  Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives. The depreciable lives for
buildings, machinery and equipment, and other fixed assets are twenty to
twenty-five years, ten to twenty years, and three to twenty years,
respectively. The cost and accumulated depreciation for property, plant and equipment
sold, retired, or otherwise disposed of are relieved from the accounts and
resulting gains or   

65     

losses
are included in income (loss) from continuing operations in the consolidated
statements of operations.  

  Expenditures for repairs
and maintenance are charged to expenses as incurred. Expenditures for major
renewals and betterments, which significantly extend the useful lives of
existing plant and equipment, are capitalized and depreciated.  

  Cabot capitalizes interest
cost in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard ( FAS ) No. 34,  Capitalization
of Interest Cost.  This statement establishes standards for capitalizing
interest cost as part of the historical cost of acquiring and constructing
certain assets that require a period of time to get them ready for their
intended use. During 2006 and 2005, Cabot capitalized $3 million and $2 million,
respectively, of interest cost as part of the cost of constructing its
manufacturing lines in China, Brazil and the U.S. which will be amortized over
the life of the related assets. There was no interest cost capitalized during
2004.  

    Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets    

  Goodwill is comprised of
the cost of business acquisitions in excess of the fair value assigned to the
net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is not
amortized but is reviewed for impairment at least annually. The annual review
consists of the comparison of each reporting unit s carrying value to its fair
value. The fair value of a reporting unit is based on discounted estimated cash
flows. The assumptions used to estimate fair value include management s best
estimates of future growth rates, capital expenditures, discount rates and
market conditions over an estimate of the remaining operating period. If an
impairment exists, a loss is recorded to write-down the value of goodwill to
its implied fair value.  

  Cabot s intangible assets
are primarily comprised of patented and unpatented technology and minimum
pension liability adjustments. Finite lived intangible assets are amortized
over their estimated useful lives. Amortization expense was $1 million, $1
million and $2 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

    Assets Held for Rent    

  Assets held for rent
represent cesium formate product in the Specialty Fluids Business that will be
rented to customers in the normal course of business. Assets held for rent are
stated at average cost. At September 30, 2006 and 2005 Cabot had assets
held for rent of $40 million and $37 million, respectively.  

    Assets Held for Sale    

  Cabot classifies its
long-lived assets as held for sale when management commits to a plan to sell
the assets, the assets are ready for immediate sale in their present condition,
an active program to locate buyers has been initiated, the sale of the assets
is probable and expected to be completed within one year, the assets are
marketed at reasonable prices in relation to their fair value and it is
unlikely that significant changes will be made to the plan to sell the assets.
The Company measures long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale at the lower
of the carrying amount and fair value, less cost to sell.  

  During the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2005, the Company classified $5 million of property, plant and
equipment related to the Supermetals direct finished tantalum sputtering target
business as assets held for sale (see further discussion in Note D). The
Company recorded an impairment charge of $8 million, representing the amount by
which their carrying value exceeded their fair value. This impairment charge is
reported as a component of cost of sales in the accompanying consolidated
statements of operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2006, Cabot sold
these assets to Tosoh SMD, a division of Tosoh Corporation. There was no gain
or loss recognized upon completion of the sale.  

66     

Asset Retirement Obligations    

  Cabot accounts for asset
retirement obligations in accordance with FAS No. 143,  Accounting for
Asset Retirement Obligations  ( FAS 143 ) and Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting
for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  ( FIN 47 ). Pursuant to FAS 143,
companies are required to estimate incremental costs for special handling,
removal and disposal costs of materials that may or will give rise to
conditional asset retirement obligations ( AROs ) and then discount the
expected costs back to the current year using a credit adjusted risk free rate.
FIN 47 clarified that ARO liabilities and costs must be recognized when the
timing and/or settlement can be reasonably estimated. If it is unclear when or
if an ARO will be triggered, companies are required to use probability
weighting for possible timing scenarios to determine the amounts that should be
recognized in the company s financial statements. The estimation of AROs is
subject to a number of inherent uncertainties including: (a) the timing of
when any ARO may be incurred, (b) the ability to accurately identify and
reasonably estimate the costs of all materials that may require special
handling or treatment, (c) the ability to assess the relative probability
of different scenarios which could give rise to an ARO, and (d) other
factors outside a company s control, including changes in regulations, costs
and interest rates. As such, actual costs and the timing of such costs may vary
significantly from the estimates, judgments, and probable scenarios considered
by the Company, which could, in turn, have a material impact on the Company s
future financial statements.  

  FIN 47 was adopted in the
fourth quarter of 2006 and resulted in the recognition of an ARO reserve of $7
million and an after tax charge of $4 million, which is reflected as a
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in the Consolidated Statements
of Operations. AROs have not been recognized for certain of the Company s
facilities because either the fair value cannot be reasonably estimated due to
an indeterminable settlement date of the obligation, or the Company currently
does not have a legal obligation associated with the retirement of those
facilities.  The pro forma effect of
applying this guidance in all prior periods presented was determined not to be
material.  

  Cabot also had $1 million
and $5 million of ARO reserves at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively,
related to the closure of the Zierbana, Spain and Altona, Australia facilities
as discussed in the restructuring footnote at Note O.  In addition, Cabot had $1 million and $3
million of ARO reserves at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, related
to the decommissioning of storage bins used in the Supermetals Business. The $2
million change in this reserve during 2006 was entirely due to a change in
estimate based on management s decision not to decommission the storage bins.   

    Impairment of Long-Lived Assets    

  Cabot s long-lived assets
include property, plant and equipment, long-term investments and other
intangible assets. The carrying values of long-lived assets are reviewed for
impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An asset impairment is
recognized when the carrying value of the asset is not recoverable based on the
undiscounted estimated cash flows to be generated by the assets. Cabot s
estimates reflect management s assumptions about selling prices, production and
sales volumes, costs and market conditions over an estimate of the remaining
operating period. If an impairment is indicated, the asset is written down to
fair value. In circumstances when an asset does not have separate identifiable
cash flows, an impairment charge is recorded when Cabot abandons the
utilization of the asset.  

    Foreign Currency Translation    

  The functional currency of the majority of Cabot s
foreign subsidiaries is the local currency in which the subsidiaries operate.
Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars
at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates. Income and expense
items are translated at average monthly exchange rates during the year.
Unrealized currency translation adjustments are accumulated as a separate
component of other comprehensive income (loss) within stockholders  equity.
Foreign currency   

67     

gains
and losses arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the
subsidiary s functional currency are reflected in net income. Certain gains and
losses are offset by derivative instruments held, as discussed in Note K.
Included in other charges are net foreign currency transaction losses of $1
million in 2006, gains of $2 million in 2005 and losses of $2 million in 2004.
Cabot recorded a loss of $8 million in 2006, a gain of $2 million in 2005 and a
loss of $3 million in 2004 related to currency translation adjustments recorded
upon substantial liquidation of certain Cabot subsidiaries.  

    Financial Instruments    

  Cabot s financial
instruments consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, short-term and
long-term debt, and derivative instruments. The carrying values of Cabot s
financial instruments approximate fair value with the exception of long-term
debt. The fair values of long-term debt and derivative instruments are based on
quoted market prices. Derivative financial instruments are used to manage
certain of Cabot s foreign currency and interest rate exposures, which exist as
part of the Company s on-going business operations. Cabot does not enter into
financial instruments for speculative purposes, nor does Cabot hold or issue
any financial instruments for trading purposes. Derivative financial
instruments are accounted for in accordance with FAS No. 133,  Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , as amended by FAS No. 138,
 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activites  and related
interpretations ( FAS 133 ), and are measured and recorded at fair value on the
balance sheet. Cabot formally documents the relationships between hedging
instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective. Hedge
accounting is followed for derivatives that have been designated and qualify as
fair value, cash flow or net investment hedges. For fair value hedges, changes
in the fair value of highly effective derivatives, along with changes in the
fair value of the hedged liabilities that are attributable to the hedged risks,
are recorded in current period earnings. For cash flow hedges, changes in the
fair value of the effective portion of the derivatives  gains or losses are
reported in other comprehensive income (loss), and the ineffective portion is
reported in earnings. For net investment hedges, changes in the fair value of
the effective portion of the derivatives  gains or losses are reported as
foreign currency translation gains or losses in other comprehensive income
(loss), and the ineffective portion is reported in earnings. The gains or
losses on derivative instruments reported in other comprehensive income are
reclassified to earnings in the period in which earnings are affected by the
underlying item. From time to time, the Company may enter into certain
derivative instruments that may not be designated as hedges under FAS 133. Although
these derivatives are not designated as hedges, Cabot believes that such
instruments are closely correlated with the underlying exposure, thus managing
the associated risk. The gains or losses from changes in the fair value of
derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges are recognized in
earnings.  

    Revenue Recognition    

  Cabot derives most of its
revenues from the sale of rubber blacks, performance products, fumed metal
oxides, tantalum and related products, and from the rental and sale of cesium
formate. Revenue from product sales is typically recognized when the product is
shipped, and title and risk of loss have passed to the customer. Revenue from
the rental of cesium formate is recognized throughout the rental period based
on the contracted rental amount. Customers are also billed and revenue is
recognized, typically at the end of the job, for cesium formate product that is
not returned. Other operating revenues, which represents less than ten percent
of total revenues, include tolling, servicing and royalties for licensed
technology.  

  Cabot s revenue recognition policies are in compliance
with Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 104,  Revenue Recognition, 
which establishes criteria that must be satisfied before revenue is realized or
realizable and earned. Cabot recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of a
sales arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or
determinable and collectibility is probable. Cabot generally is able to ensure
that products meet customer specifications prior to shipment. If the Company is
unable to determine that the product has met the specified objective criteria
prior to   

68     

shipment,
the revenue is deferred until product acceptance has occurred. Certain customer
contracts contain price protection clauses that provide for the potential
reduction in past or future sales prices. Cabot analyzes these contract
provisions to determine if an obligation related to these clauses exists and
records revenue net of any estimated price protection commitments.  

  Under certain multi-year
supply contracts with declining prices and minimum volumes, Cabot recognizes
revenue based on the estimated average selling price over the contract lives.
At September 30, 2006 and 2005, Cabot had less than $1 million and $1
million, respectively, of deferred revenue related to certain supply agreements
representing the difference between the billed price and the estimated average
selling price. The deferred revenue will be recognized as the customer purchases
the contracted minimum volumes through the first quarter of fiscal 2007.  

  The Company offers certain
of its customers cash discounts and volume rebates as sales incentives. The
discounts and volume rebates are recorded as a reduction of sales at the time
revenue is recognized based on historical experience. Rebates are estimated and
recorded based primarily on historical experience and contractual obligations.  Cabot reviews its estimates for discounts and
volume rebates, and the assumptions underlying the estimates are modified to
reflect changes in facts and circumstances as appropriate.  

  Shipping and handling
charges related to sales transactions are recorded as sales revenue when billed
to customers or included in the sales price in accordance with Emerging Issues
Task Force ( EITF ) 00-10,  Accounting for Shipping and Handling Fees and
Costs.  Shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales.  

  Accounts and notes
receivable as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, primarily include trade
accounts receivable, which arise in the normal course of business of $508 million
and $405 million, respectively, income tax receivables of $19 million and $23
million, respectively, and the current portion of notes receivable of $13
million and $6 million, respectively. Trade receivables are recorded at the
invoiced amount and do not bear interest. Trade receivables in China may be
settled with the receipt of bank issued non-interest bearing notes. These China
notes totaled 100 million RMB ($13 million) and 42 million RMB ($5 million) as
of September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and are included in accounts
and notes receivable. Cabot periodically sells a portion of the trade
receivables in China at a discount. These transactions are accounted for as
sales under the provisions of FAS No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and
Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities  ( FAS 140 ).
The difference between the proceeds from the sale and the carrying value of the
receivables is recognized as a loss on the sale of receivables and is included
in other income (charges) in the accompanying consolidated statements of
operations.  

  Cabot maintains allowances
for doubtful accounts based on an assessment of the collectibility of specific
customer accounts, the aging of accounts receivable and other economic
information on both a historical and prospective basis. Customer account
balances are charged against the allowance when it is probable the receivable
will not be recovered. Write-offs in fiscal 2006 and 2005 were not material.
There is no off-balance sheet credit exposure related to customer receivable
balances.  

    Stock-based Compensation    

  On October 1, 2005, Cabot adopted FAS No. 123
(R),  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  using the modified prospective
method, which resulted in the provisions of FAS 123 (R) being applied
to the consolidated financial statements on a going-forward basis beginning in
fiscal year 2006. Prior periods have not been adjusted and, therefore, the
results for 2006 are not necessarily comparable to the same period in prior
years. However, the impact to prior periods would have been immaterial. FAS 123
(R) requires companies to recognize stock-based awards granted to
employees as compensation expense on a fair value method. Under the fair value
recognition provisions of FAS 123 (R), stock-based compensation cost is
measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is
recognized as   

69     

expense
over the service period, which generally represents the vesting period, and
includes an estimate of the awards that will be forfeited. Cabot calculates the
fair value of its stock options using the Black-Scholes option pricing model
and the fair value of restricted stock is based on intrinsic value.  

    Research and Technical Expenses    

  Research and technical
expenses disclosed in the consolidated statements of operations are expensed as
incurred in accordance with FAS No. 2,  Accounting for Research and
Development Costs.  Research and technical expenses include salaries, equipment
and material expenditures and contractor fees.  

    Income Taxes    

  Deferred income taxes are
determined based on the estimated future tax effects of differences between
financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of existing assets and
liabilities. Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that realization
of those assets is considered to be more likely than not. A valuation allowance
is established for deferred taxes when it is more likely than not that all or a
portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Provisions are made
for the U.S. income tax liability and additional non-U.S. taxes on the
undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, except for amounts Cabot has
designated to be indefinitely reinvested.  

    Comprehensive Income    

  Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss), which is included as a component of stockholders 
equity, includes unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale marketable
securities and derivative instruments, currency translation adjustments in
foreign subsidiaries, translation adjustments on foreign equity securities and
minimum pension liability adjustments.  

    Environmental Costs    

  Cabot accrues
environmental costs when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and
the amount can be reasonably estimated. When a single liability amount cannot
be reasonably estimated, but a range can be reasonably estimated, Cabot accrues
the amount that reflects the best estimate within that range or the low end of
the range if no estimate within the range is better. The amount accrued
reflects Cabot s assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated
site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory
agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and
the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties.
Cabot discounts all, or a portion, of environmental and other long-term
liabilities to reflect the time value of money if the amount of the liability
and the amount and timing of cash payments for the liability are fixed and
reliably determinable. The liability will be discounted at a rate that will
produce an amount at which the liability theoretically could be settled in an
arm s length transaction with a third party. This discounted rate may not
exceed the risk-free rate for maturities comparable to that of the liability.
Cabot does not reduce its estimated liability for possible recoveries from
insurance carriers. Proceeds from insurance carriers are recorded when realized
by the receipt of cash or a contractual agreement.  

    Use of Estimates    

  The preparation of
consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States requires management to make certain
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and
liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date
of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
and expenses during the reported period. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.  

70  

Newly Issued Accounting Pronouncements    

  In September 2006,
the SEC issued SAB No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year
Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial
Statements  ( SAB 108 ). SAB 108 provides guidance on the consideration of the
effects of prior year misstatements in quantifying current year misstatements
for the purpose of determining whether the current year s financial statements
are materially misstated. SAB 108 is effective for the Company beginning October 1,
2007. The adoption of SAB 108 is not expected to have a material impact on the
Company s consolidated financial statements.  

  In September 2006,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued FAS No. 157,  Fair
Value Measurements  ( FAS 157 ). FAS 157 provides guidance for using fair value
to measure assets and liabilities and requires additional disclosure about the use
of fair value measures, the information used to measure fair value, and the
effect fair-value measurements have on earnings. The primary areas in which the
Company utilizes fair value measures are valuing pension plan assets and
liabilities, valuing hedge-related derivative financial instruments, allocating
purchase price to the assets and liabilities of acquired companies, and
evaluating long-term assets for potential impairment. FAS 157 does not require
any new fair value measurements. FAS 157 is effective for the Company beginning
October 1, 2008. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of FAS 157
on its consolidated financial statements.  

   In September 2006,
the FASB issued FAS No. 158,  Employer s Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
88, 106, and 132(R)  ( FAS 158 ). FAS 158  requires an employer to
recognize the funded status of a benefit plan, measured as the difference
between plan assets at fair value and the projected benefit obligation, in its
statement of financial position. FAS 158 also requires an employer to measure
defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of the date of the employer s
fiscal year-end. FAS 158 is effective for
the Company for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2007. The Company is
currently evaluating the impact of FAS 158 on its consolidated financial statements.  

  In July 2006, the
FASB issued Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes an Interpretation of FASB Statement 109  ( FIN 48 ), which prescribes a
comprehensive model for how a company should recognize, measure, present and
disclose in its financial statements uncertain tax positions that the company
has taken or expects to take on a tax return, including a decision whether or
not to file a return in a particular jurisdiction. Under this new guidance, the
financial statements will reflect expected future tax consequences of such
positions presuming the taxing authorities  full knowledge of the position and
all relevant facts, but without considering time values. This guidance also
revises disclosure requirements and introduces a prescriptive, annual, tabular
roll-forward of unrecognized tax benefits. FIN 48 is effective for annual
periods beginning after December 15, 2006, which will be fiscal 2008 for
Cabot. Cabot is in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption of FIN 48
on its consolidated financial statements.  

  In June 2006, the FASB ratified the consensus
reached by the EITF in Issue No. 06-3,  How Taxes Collected from
Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the
Income Statement (That Is, Gross versus Net Presentation)  ( EITF 06-3 ).
The scope of this issue includes any tax assessed by a governmental authority
that is directly imposed on a revenue-producing activity between a seller and a
customer and may include, but is not limited to, sales, use, value-added, and
some excise taxes. EITF 06-3 requires the disclosure of the method of
accounting for the applicable assessed taxes and the amount of assessed taxes
that are included in revenues if they are accounted for under the gross method
and are significant. EITF 06-3 is effective for interim and annual
reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company does not
expect the adoption of EITF 06-3 in fiscal 2007 to have an impact on its
consolidated financial statements.  

  In October 2004,
the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ( AJCA ) was signed into law. Among
other things, the AJCA allowed U.S. companies a one-time election to
repatriate certain earnings from   

71     

their foreign subsidiaries in 2006 at an effective tax
rate of 5.25%. The Company did not believe there to be a material benefit
available to it given Cabot s particular circumstances and the various
requirements under the law and, accordingly, did not elect to repatriate any
foreign earnings.  

   Note B. Acquisitions     

  Cabot had a 50:50 joint
venture arrangement with Showa Denko K.K. in an entity called Showa Cabot K.K.
( SCK ). On November 8, 2005, Cabot purchased Showa Denko K.K. s 50% joint
venture interest in SCK for $19 million and renamed the entity Cabot
Japan K.K ( Cabot Japan ). As a result of the acquisition and
consolidation of Cabot Japan, Cabot assumed the remaining 50% of SCK s debt
obligations of $13 million for total debt of $26 million at the date of
acquisition. In addition, Cabot assumed $8 million of Showa Denko K.K. s
pension liabilities which represents 100% of the obligation at the date of
acquisition.  

  Prior to the acquisition, Cabot s investment in SCK
was accounted for as an equity method investment. Included in Cabot s
consolidated results for the year ended September 30, 2006 are 50% of the
operating results of SCK from October 1, 2005 through November 7,
2005 and 100% of the operating results of SCK (now Cabot Japan) from November 8,
2005 through September 30, 2006.  

  The
fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities and debt assumed represents
the 50% of SCK that Cabot purchased. The following table summarizes the
purchased 50% of the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
at the date of acquisition:  

(Dollars in millions)   

Cash paid  

$  

19  

Accounts receivable  

$  

20  

Inventories.  

5  

Deferred income taxes  

1  

Investments in
  marketable securities.  

1  

Property, plant and
  equipment  

33  

Total assets acquired  

$  

60  

Accounts payable and
  accrued expenses  

26  

Notes payable.  

13  

Pension obligation.  

8  

Total liabilities
  assumed.  

$  

47  

Net assets acquired.  

$  

13  

Goodwill  

$  

6  

72     

The
following unaudited pro forma financial information reflects the consolidated
results of operations of Cabot for the years ended September 30, 2006 and
2005 as though the acquisition of SCK had occurred on the first day of the
respective period. The pro forma operating results are presented for
comparative purposes only and do not purport to present Cabot s actual
operating results for these periods or results that may occur in the future:  

Note C. Discontinued Operations     

  In fiscal 2006, Cabot
recorded a $2 million benefit from a favorable tax audit settlement related to
the Company s discontinued liquified natural gas business.  

  Cabot did not have income
or charges related to discontinued operations in fiscal year 2005.  

  In fiscal 2004, Cabot
recorded benefits of $1 million related to insurance proceeds and $1 million
related to the reversal of tax reserves related to previously divested
businesses.  

   Note D. Long-Lived Asset Impairment     

  During the second quarter
of fiscal year 2005, management determined, based on a combination of factors
associated with the anticipated future performance of the Supermetals Business,
that the long-lived assets (including goodwill) of this Business may not be
recoverable and thus an impairment analysis was performed. These factors
included the continuing trend toward the use of smaller tantalum capacitors in
electronics devices, resulting in significantly less tantalum powder being
required for each capacitor, the continued high inventory levels in the supply
chain and the expected decrease in tantalum powder sales volume and pricing as
the Business was transitioning to market based volumes and pricing. The
impairment analysis indicated that the estimated undiscounted cash flows of the
Business, determined to be the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, were
sufficient to recover the carrying value of the long-lived   

73     

assets
over their remaining useful lives. However, based on the estimated discounted
cash flows of the Business, it was determined that the fair value of this
reporting unit was below its carrying amount and that a full impairment of the
goodwill existed. Accordingly, the Company was required to write-off the entire
$90 million goodwill balance of the reporting unit during the second quarter of
fiscal 2005.  

  During the fourth quarter
of fiscal year 2005, events occurred that required management to re-evaluate
the anticipated future performance of the Supermetals Business. These events
included the decision by management in August 2005 to exit the manufacture
and sale of finished tantalum sputtering targets, which was previously
forecasted to be an important contributor to the future cash flows of the
Business, and the increased likelihood of higher tantalum ore costs under the
Company s purchase commitments with the Sons of Gwalia, as discussed in Note S.
These factors, combined with significantly lower market prices for tantalum
powder than anticipated when the impairment analysis was performed in the
second quarter of fiscal 2005, led management to believe that the Business s
remaining long-lived assets, after the goodwill write-off, may not be
recoverable, and that a further impairment analysis was necessary. In this
analysis, the carrying amount of the Business s long-lived assets (consisting
primarily of property, plant and equipment) was compared to the sum of the
estimated undiscounted cash flows expected from the Business s use of the
assets over their remaining useful lives. This comparison indicated that the
carrying value of the long-lived assets was in excess of their undiscounted
cash flows and, therefore, an impairment existed. The Company, with the
assistance of independent valuation specialists, determined the fair value of
the Business s long-lived assets using estimated discounted cash flows that the
Company believed would be forecasted by a purchaser of the Business. Since this
analysis indicated that a full write-down of the long-lived assets was
warranted, and to ensure that individual assets were not written down below
their fair market value, the Company engaged independent valuation specialists
to perform appraisals of individual assets. The excess of the carrying amount
of the assets over their fair market value resulted in a $121 million charge
that was recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005.  

  During fiscal year 2005, the
Supermetals Business also recorded a charge of $15 million associated with
on-going cost reduction initiatives in that Business. These charges included $8
million of asset write downs associated with management s decision to stop
manufacturing and selling finished tantalum sputtering targets to the
semiconductor industry and to instead focus on the sale of tantalum plate and
ingot to sputtering target manufacturers, as well as $3 million of charges
related to severance and $3 million of charges related to the write down of
assets related to abandoned research and development projects.  

  The impairment charges recorded
during fiscal 2005 in the Supermetals Business are reported as a component of
loss from continuing operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of
operations.  

   Note E. Inventories     

  Inventories,
net of LIFO reserves, are as follows:  

Inventories valued under
the LIFO method comprised approximately 29% and 27% of total inventories in 2006
and 2005, respectively. At September 30, 2006 and 2005, the LIFO reserve
recorded was $76 million and $73 million, respectively. Other inventory is
comprised of spare parts and supplies.  

74     

During the year ended September 2006,
inventory quantities were reduced at the Company s U.S. Supermetals site and at
U.S. Carbon Black operations. This reduction led to a liquidation of LIFO
inventory quantities carried at lower costs that were prevailing in prior
years, as compared with the cost of current fiscal year purchases through September 30,
2006. This resulted in a decrease of cost of goods sold of $6 million and an
increase of net income by approximately $4 million, or $0.06 per share, for the
year ended September 30, 2006. There were no significant liquidations of
LIFO layers in inventories in 2005 or 2004.  

   Note F. Investments     

    Equity Affiliates     Cabot has investments in equity
affiliates that consist of several joint ventures in the Carbon Black and Metal
Oxides Businesses. These investments are accounted for using the equity method.
Cabot does not disclose its equity affiliate financial statements separately by
entity because none of them are individually material to the consolidated
financial statements. Cabot Japan was a 50% joint venture in the Carbon Black
Segment and was included as an equity affiliate until November 8, 2005 when
Cabot purchased the remaining 50% and the entity was then consolidated. The
following summarized results of operations and financial position include Cabot s
equity based affiliates for the periods presented below (except Cabot Japan, of
which 50% was included for the 2005 and 2004 pre-acquisition periods):  

At September 30, 2006
and 2005, Cabot had equity affiliate investments of $59 million and $63
million, respectively. Dividends received from these investments were $5
million, $3 million and $2 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The
Company did not make any equity affiliate contributions during fiscal 2006 and
2005.  

    Marketable Securities     Cabot holds short-term and
long-term investments in available-for-sale marketable securities. These
investments had a fair market value of $3 million and $35 million at September 30,
2006 and 2005, respectively, which includes $1 million and zero of unrealized
gains, respectively, that have been excluded from earnings and reported as a
separate component of other comprehensive income (loss) within stockholders 
equity. During fiscal 2006 and 2005, Cabot purchased $20 million and $94
million of available-for-sale securities, respectively. Proceeds from sales of
available-for-sale securities were $56 million and $164 million in 2006 and
2005, respectively. There were no gross realized gains (losses) from the sale
of available-for-sale securities in fiscal 2006 and 2005. At September 30,
2006 and 2005, $1 million and $30 million, respectively, are classified as
short-term investments and $2 million and $5 million, respectively, are
classified as long-term investments.  

  During fiscal 2004, a pre-tax impairment charge of $12
million was recorded in other income (charges) to write off the Company s
investment in the Sons of Gwalia stock. The Sons of Gwalia stock was suspended
from trading after the company appointed voluntary administrators under the Australian
Corporation Act (similar to U.S. bankruptcy).  

75  

No dividends were received from available-for-sale
marketable securities during the years ended September 2006, 2005 and
2004.  

    Cost Investments     Cabot had cost-based investments
in the amount of $1 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005, which are
classified as long-term. No sales of cost-based investments occurred during
fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004.  

   Note G. Property,
Plant and Equipment     

  Property,
plant and equipment is summarized as follows:  

Depreciation expense was
$130 million, $141 million and $132 million for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.  

   Note H. Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets     

  At September 30,
2006 and 2005, Cabot had goodwill balances of $31 million and $25 million,
respectively. The foreign currency translation impact on the goodwill balances
was less than $1 million during fiscal 2006. The carrying amount of goodwill
attributable to each reportable segment with goodwill balances and the changes
in those balances during the year ended September 30, 2006 are as follows:  

As required by FAS No. 142  Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets  ( FAS 142 ), impairment tests are performed at least
annually. The Company performs its annual impairment assessment for goodwill
during the third quarter of each fiscal year. During the third quarter of
fiscal 2006, Cabot performed its annual FAS 142 impairment test and determined
that there was no impairment.  

  Cabot does not have any indefinite-lived intangible
assets. At September 30, 2006 and 2005, Cabot had $5 million and $6
million of finite-lived intangible assets, respectively. These intangible
assets at September 30, 2006 are comprised of $13 million for patents, $1
million for other intellectual property and less than $1 million of pension
intangible assets related to minimum pension liabilities recorded in 2006, less
accumulated amortization of $8 million for patents and $1 million for other intellectual
property. These intangible assets at September 30, 2005 are comprised of
$13 million for patents, $1 million for other intellectual property and $1
million of pension intangible assets related to minimum pension liabilities
less related accumulated amortization of $8 million for patents and $1 million
for other intellectual property.   

76     

Intangible assets are
amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from two to fifteen
years, with a weighted average amortization period of ten years. Amortization
expense is estimated to be approximately $1 million in each of the next five
years.  

  In May 2006, Cabot
entered into a cross license agreement with Aspen Aerogel, Inc. where each
party granted certain patent rights to the other. In consideration for use of
the patents granted by Cabot, the agreement calls for Cabot to receive $8
million of cash in ten equal semi-annual payments beginning on September 1,
2006 and the right to receive equity in Aspen. During the fourth quarter of
2006, the first installment payment was received and recorded in earnings. The
remaining $7.2 million will be recognized when collection is reasonably assured.
No amount has been recorded to date for the equity related consideration
because of the contingent nature of the arrangement.  

   Note I. Accounts
Payable, Accrued Liabilities and Other Liabilities     

  Accounts
payable and accrued liabilities included in current liabilities consisted of
the following:  

Other
long-term liabilities consisted of the following:  

77     

Note J. Debt     

  Long-term
debt is summarized below:  

$400 million Revolving Credit Facility     Cabot has a $400 million
revolving credit facility that permits the Company to borrow funds on an
unsecured basis in various currencies at floating interest rates. The credit
facility expires on August 3, 2010. The Company has approximately $307
million remaining availability under the revolving credit facility as of September 30,
2006. The revolving credit facility agreement contains affirmative, negative
and financial covenants, which the Company believes are customary for
financings of this type, including financial covenants for certain maximum
indebtedness and minimum cash flow requirements. The Company was in compliance
with all debt covenants as of September 30, 2006 and 2005.  

  During fiscal 2005, Cabot repaid its then existing 9.3
billion yen debt by drawing down on the revolving credit facility. At September 30,
2006, the balance outstanding on the revolving credit facility remains at 9.3
billion yen ($ 79 million) which bears interest at yen-libor plus 30 basis
points (.8% at September 30, 2006) and matures with the expiration of the
revolving credit facility on August 3, 2010. The 9.3 billion yen debt has
been designated as a net investment hedge. At September 30, 2006 and 2005,
a credit of $3 million and zero, respectively, related to the revaluation of
the debt from yen to U.S. dollar was included as a component of accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) with a corresponding amount in other long-term
liabilities.  

  Cabot has entered into two variable-for-fixed rate
swaps to hedge against the variability of cash flows caused by changes in
interest rates related to this yen draw down. The swaps have an aggregate
notional amount of 9.3 billion yen. Cabot will receive floating rate interest
on the yen amount based on the six-month yen-LIBOR rate and pay a fixed rate
yen based interest payment. During September 2005, in   

78     

conjunction with the
refinancing of its yen debt, Cabot amended these swap agreements to match the
maturity of the draw down under the revolving credit facility. In addition, due
to the extension of the maturity date, the interest rates of 0.4% and 0.391% on
the previously outstanding swaps of 5 billion yen and 4.3 billion yen,
respectively, have changed to a fixed rate of 0.84% and 0.86%, respectively,
for both swaps.  

  These two yen variable-for-fixed rate swaps have been
designated as cash flow hedges and had a positive fair value (asset) of less
than $1 million on September 30, 2006 and 2005, and are included in other assets.
During fiscal 2006, changes in the value of the effective portion of the cash
flow hedges were reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
There was no charge to earnings due to ineffectiveness for either of the years
ended September 30, 2006, or 2005 for the swaps. Within the next twelve
months, Cabot does not expect to reclassify any gains from accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) to earnings, as it expects the swaps to be highly
effective through their maturities.  

    Medium Term Notes     At September 30, 2006 and
2005, there were $158 million and $188 million, respectively, of medium term
notes outstanding issued to numerous lenders with various fixed interest rates
and maturity dates. In fiscal year 2006, Cabot repaid $30 million of these
medium term notes as they matured. The weighted average maturity of the total
outstanding medium term notes is 7 years with a weighted average interest rate
of 7.5%.  

  At September 30, 2006 and 2005, Cabot had two
fixed-to-variable interest rate swaps outstanding with an aggregate notional
amount of $60 million. An interest rate swap with a notional value of $30
million and the related medium term note outstanding at September 30, 2005
matured in December 2005. In January 2006, a new fixed-to-variable
interest rate swap for a notional amount of $30 million was entered into and is
associated with a $30 million medium term note maturing in February 2009.
The other remaining swap matures in February 2007 with the maturity of the
note. These swaps have been designated as hedges under FAS 133 to offset
changes in the fair value of the underlying debt. The negative fair values
(liabilities) of the derivative instruments were less than $1 million at September 30,
2006 and have been recorded as other long-term liabilities in the consolidated
balance sheet with a corresponding decrease to long-term debt. This compares
with the positive fair values (assets) of the derivative instruments of less
than $1 million at September 30, 2005, that were recorded in other assets
in the consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding increase to long-term
debt. The fair value interest rate swaps were determined to be highly effective
and no amount of ineffectiveness was recorded in earnings for the years ended September 30,
2006 and 2005.  

  Under a 1998 shelf registration, there are $400
million of debt securities still available for sale at September 30, 2006
and 2005, respectively. The Company has no current plans to offer additional
securities under the registration statement.  

    Euro Bond     A Cabot subsidiary issued a $175 million bond with a
fixed coupon rate of 5.25%. The bond is due September 1, 2013, with
interest due on March 1 and September 1 of each year. A discount of
approximately $1 million was recorded at inception of the issuance and is being
amortized over the life of the bond. Amortization of the discount was
immaterial for fiscal 2006 and 2005.  

  As part of the $175 million bond issuance, a Cabot
subsidiary entered into a ten-year derivative contract with a notional amount
of $140 million to swap U.S. dollars to Euros. This cross currency swap has
been designated as a foreign currency cash flow hedge under FAS 133. The
swap hedges the variability of the cash flows on $140 million (or 80%) of the
debt issuance, for changes in the exchange rates over the life of the debt
instrument. This swap effectively neutralizes the impact of U.S. dollar/Euro
currency fluctuations on that subsidiary on $140 million of the bond. Changes
in the value of the effective portion of the cash flow hedge are reported in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and a portion is subsequently
reclassified to earnings to offset the revaluation foreign exchange gain (loss)
on the underlying bond, while the ineffective portion would be reported
directly to earnings. This swap had   

79     

negative fair value
(liability) of $28 million and $21 million on September 30, 2006 and 2005,
respectively, and is included in other long-term liabilities. There was no
charge to earnings for the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 for
ineffectiveness, and the Company does not expect to reclassify any material
gains or losses from accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings within
the next twelve months.  

  The Cabot subsidiary also holds two swaps on the
remaining $35 million (or 20%) of the bond issuance. The first is a fixed to floating
interest rate swap on the fixed rate coupon of 5.25% to a six-month U.S. LIBOR
rate plus a spread of 62 basis points. The variable interest rate on the swap
resets with the terms of the bond coupon payments. This swap has been
designated as a fair value hedge under FAS 133. The swap had a negative
fair value (liability) of $1 million which has been recorded as an other long
term liability with a corresponding decrease to long term debt at September 30,
2006 compared to a nominal fair value on September 30, 2005. The interest
rate swap was determined to be highly effective and, therefore, no
ineffectiveness was recorded in earnings during the years ended September 30,
2006 and 2005. The second swap is a cross currency swap on $35 million of the bond
issuance which converts U.S. dollars at variable interest rates to Euros at
variable interest rates. This swap has not been designated as a hedge under FAS
133. The cross currency swap had a negative fair value (liability) of $4
million and $2 million on September 30, 2006, and 2005, respectively,
which is included in other long-term liabilities. Changes in the value of the
swap are recognized immediately in earnings, and are offset by the recognition
in other income (charges) for the foreign exchange revaluation of the
underlying foreign currency debt.  

    ESOP Deb    t   In November 1988,
Cabot s Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ) borrowed $75 million from an
institutional lender in order to finance its purchase of 75,000 shares of Cabot s
Series B ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock. This debt bears interest at
8.3% per annum and is to be repaid in equal quarterly installments through December 31,
2013. Cabot, as guarantor, has reflected the outstanding balance of $38 million
and $42 million as a liability in the consolidated balance sheet at September 30,
2006 and 2005, respectively. An equal amount, representing deferred employee
benefits, has been recorded as a reduction to stockholders  equity.  

    Japanese Yen Debt     A Cabot subsidiary repaid approximately
$13 million of yen notes as they matured in fiscal 2006. Additionally, in
connection with the acquisition of Cabot Japan on November 8, 2005, Cabot
assumed the remaining 50% of SCK s debt obligations of $13 million. Prior to
the acquisition, SCK was accounted for as an equity affiliate and, therefore,
was not consolidated. As a result of the acquisition and consolidation of Cabot
Japan, Cabot had a total of $26 million of debt obligations as of the
acquisition date. Subsequent to the closing of the acquisition Cabot has repaid
$25 million of this debt with $1 million remaining outstanding as of September 30,
2006.  

    Chinese Renminbi Debt     Majority owned joint-ventures
operating in China had unsecured debt facilities with numerous banks in China
that allow for total long-term borrowings of 338 million Chinese Renminbi (RMB)
($42 million) with outstanding borrowings of 335 million RMB ($41 million) and
60 million RMB ($8 million) as of September 30, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. The debt bears interest at rates ranging from 5.2% to 6.2% and
has maturities ranging from 2007 to 2011. The financing has been used to fund
capital expenditures at the Company s newly constructed Carbon Black and Metal
Oxides facilities located in Tianjin and Jiangxi Province.  

    Capital Lease Obligations     A majority owned joint venture
has capital lease obligations for certain equipment with a net present value of
$2 million. Cabot will make payments of a total of $3 million over the next
fifteen years, including $1 million of imputed interest. Cabot has assets under
capital leases of which the original costs at September 30, 2006 and 2005
were $2 million. The accumulated depreciation of assets under capital leases at
September 30, 2006 and 2005 was $1 million for both years. The
amortization related to those assets under capital lease is included in
depreciation expense.  

80  

The
aggregate principal amounts of long-term debt due in each of the five years
from fiscal 2007 through 2011 and thereafter are as follows:  

At September 30, 2006, the Company had provided
standby letters of credit totaling $30 million, which expire in fiscal 2007.  

    Short-term Notes
Payable to Banks     The Company has notes payable to banks of $58 million and
$34 million as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

  As of September 30,
2006 and 2005, the amount of notes outstanding to banks includes $8 million and
$9 million, respectively, for book overdrafts and $8 million and zero,
respectively, for notes issued by banks in China and Japan, which are both
non-interest bearing balances. The weighted-average interest rate on short-term
notes is 7.0% and 4.9% as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The Company had an additional $2 million of outstanding borrowings against
uncommitted facilities in certain foreign sites. The debt bears interest at
rates ranging from 6.3% to 6.4% and has been renewed and will mature during the
first quarter of fiscal 2008.  

  As of September 30,
2006 and 2005 Cabot had short-term debt agreements at its Argentina subsidiary
for a total of $10 million and $11 million, respectively, to finance working
capital and other requirements. The notes are expected to be refinanced as they
mature at various dates throughout 2007. The debt bears interest at rates
ranging from 6.6% to 12.3%.  

  During 2006, a Cabot
subsidiary in India borrowed from uncommitted facilities from two local banks
and had outstanding borrowings of $6 million and $4 million as of September 30,
2006 and 2005, respectively. The debt bears interest at rates ranging from 8.2%
to 8.3%. The financing is being used for general working capital needs. These
notes are expected to be refinanced as they mature at various dates throughout
fiscal 2007.  

  The receipt and
disbursement process in China is traditionally conducted using bank issued
notes to satisfy certain company receivables and payables. As these notes
typically mature in three to six months, a practice has developed whereby the
notes received from customers for the satisfaction of amounts owed may be sold
at a discounted rate to a bank. If the notes received are not discounted, they
continue to be accounted for as a receivable from the bank and not the
customer. These transactions are accounted for under the provisions of
FAS 140. The Company entered into note discounting agreements in 2006 that
would allow for up to 900 million RMB ($114 million) of bank notes to
be discounted. As of September 30, 2006 notes in an aggregate amount of
292 million RMB ($37 million) have been sold under these discounting
agreements.  

  Notes issued by a bank to
a vendor on behalf of the Company are accounted for as satisfaction of the
Company s trade payable but are shown as notes payable until the note is
settled with the bank. Both the issuing and discounting of notes by banks are
typically applied against credit facilities established between the Company and
the bank.  

  Majority owned
joint-ventures operating in China had unsecured debt facilities with numerous
banks in China that allow for total short-term borrowings in Chinese Renminbi
of 562 million RMB ($71 million) with outstanding borrowings of 192 million RMB
($24 million) and 77 million RMB ($10 million) as of September 30, 2006
and 2005, respectively. The Company also has an existing U.S. dollar debt
facility in China for $16 million. As of September 30, 2006, there were no
outstanding borrowings against the US dollar   

81     

facility.
All of these facilities are being used to fund overall working capital needs in
China. The debt bears interest at rates ranging from 5.0% to 5.5%. These
short-term borrowings are expected to be refinanced as they mature throughout
the remainder of 2006 and 2007.  

  Additionally, during
fiscal 2006, the Company issued notes from these facilities to satisfy certain
vendor payments. These amounted to 57 million RMB ($7 million) and are included
in the notes payable to banks in the Company s consolidated balance sheet and
reduce the availability under the facilities described above. As of September 30,
2006, 313 million RMB ($40 million) remains available for future drawdowns.  

   Note K. Financial Instruments     

  The following is a
description of the derivative financial instruments that Cabot has entered into
to  manage certain of Cabot s foreign
currency exposures.  

    Japanese Yen
Currency Swaps     Cabot uses both yen-based debt and cross currency swaps to hedge its
net investment in Japanese subsidiaries against adverse movements in exchange
rates. Cabot entered into two cross currency swap agreements in November 2002
to hedge a portion of its net investment in Japan. The hedge instruments swap
U.S. dollar debt cash flows on a variable rate to yen debt cash flows on a
variable rate. These swaps were originally maturing in October 2005 but
were extended to October 31, 2006 and subsequent to year end were extended
for another additional year to October 31, 2007. These derivative
instruments, in total, swapped a notional value of $41 million at the
three-month U.S. LIBOR interest rates for 5 billion yen at the three-month yen
LIBOR interest rates. As of September 30, 2006 and 2005, and given rates
in force at those dates, the cross currency swaps reduced Cabot s interest rate
by 4.93% and 3.78%, respectively, on the notional amount of $41 million.  

  These cross currency swaps
had negative fair values (liabilities) of $2 million and $3 million at September 30,
2006 and 2005, respectively, and are included in other liabilities. The change
in the fair value of the cross currency swap of $1 million for the twelve
months ended September 30, 2006 has been recorded as a foreign currency translation
loss in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), offsetting foreign
currency translation gains of Cabot s yen denominated net investments. The
effectiveness of these hedges is based on changes in the spot foreign exchange
rates and the balance of Cabot s yen denominated net investments. The net
amount recorded in earnings for the years-ended September 30, 2006 and
2005 related to the ineffectiveness of the hedges was immaterial.  

    Australian Dollar
Currency Options     To mitigate the foreign currency exposure associated with
the future settlement of the Australian dollar denominated payables under a
tantalum ore supply agreement, during April 2006 Cabot entered into option
contracts with a total notional amount of 136 million Australian dollars ($97
million at inception). These contracts provide Cabot with the right, but not
the obligation, to purchase Australian dollars at agreed strike prices monthly
through January 2009. As of September 30, 2006, there was a notional
amount of 116 million Australian dollars ($87 million) worth of options
remaining outstanding. Certain of these option contracts have been designated
as foreign currency cash flow hedges under FAS. 133, and related
interpretations. Thus, the change in fair market value of the effective portion
of the options are deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
income and recognized in cost of goods sold when the hedged item affects cost
of goods sold. The changes in fair value of the options contracts that have not
been designated as a hedge under FAS 133 are recognized directly in
earnings.  

  In connection with the
contracts designated as hedges, Cabot recorded less than $1 million of
expense in earnings during the year ended September 30, 2006 related to the
ineffective portion. The hedges had an initial value in April 2006 (upon
entering into the contracts) of $1.8 million, which has decreased to $1.6 million
as of September 30, 2006. At September 30, 2006, the Company expects
to reclassify less than $1 million of losses on the option contracts from
accumulated other comprehensive income over the next twelve months. For those
options not designated as hedges, the Company recorded less than $1 million
of expense during the year ended September 30, 2006.  

82     

Cabot recorded $2 million
of assets and $34 million of liabilities to recognize the fair value of
currency instruments at September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005. A
10% appreciation in the U.S. dollar s value relative to the hedged currencies
would increase the derivative instruments  fair value by $38 million and $41
million at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A 10% depreciation
in the U.S. dollar s value relative to the hedged currencies would decrease the
derivative instruments  fair value by $37 million and $38 million at September 30,
2006 and 2005, respectively. Any increase or decrease in the fair value of
Cabot s currency exchange rate sensitive derivative instruments would be
substantially offset by a corresponding decrease or increase in the fair value
of the hedged underlying asset, liability, or cash flow.  

   Note L. Fair Value of Financial Instruments     

  The
carrying amounts and fair values of the Company s financial instruments at September 30,
2006 and 2005 are as follows:  

At September 30, 2006 and 2005, the fair values
of cash, cash equivalents, accounts receivables, accounts payable and notes
payable to banks approximated carrying values because of the short-term nature
of these instruments. The estimated fair values of available for sale
marketable securities, as described in Note F, are based on the market price at
the respective year-ends. The estimated fair values of the derivative
instruments as described in Note J and K are estimated based on the amount that
Cabot would receive or pay to terminate the agreements at the respective
year-ends which represents the fair value. The fair value of Cabot s fixed rate
long-term debt is estimated based on quoted market prices at the end of each
fiscal year. The carrying amounts of Cabot s floating rate long-term debt
approximates their fair value.  

   Note M. Employee Benefit Plans     

  Cabot provides both
defined benefit and defined contribution plans for its employees. The defined
benefit plans consist of the Cabot Cash Balance Plan ( CBP ) and several
foreign pension plans. The defined contribution plans consist of the Cabot
Retirement Savings Plan ( RSP ) and several foreign plans. Cabot also provides
postretirement benefit plans, which include medical coverage and life
insurance. The information provided below includes a brief summary of the
plans.  

    Defined Contribution Plans    

  Cabot recognized expenses
related to U.S. and foreign defined contribution plans in the amounts of $10
million, $9 million and $8 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

83     

Retirement Savings Plan    

  The RSP is a U.S. defined
contribution plan, which encourages long-term systematic savings and provides
funds for retirement or possible earlier needs. The RSP has two components, a
401(k) plan and an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ).  

    401(k)    

  The 401(k) plan
allows an eligible participant to contribute a percentage of his or her
eligible compensation on a before-tax basis or an after-tax basis. For
employees not subject to a collective bargaining agreement, Cabot makes a matching
contribution of 75% of a participant s eligible before-tax or after-tax
contribution up to 7.5% of the participant s eligible compensation. This
matching contribution is in the form of Cabot stock and is made on a quarterly
basis.  

    Employee Stock Ownership Plan    

  Other than certain
employees subject to collective bargaining agreements, all eligible employees
of Cabot and its participating subsidiaries in the U.S. participate in the
ESOP. Under the ESOP, which is 100% Company funded, 742.6 shares of Series B
ESOP convertible preferred stock are allocated to participants  accounts at the
end of each quarter. These shares are allocated to participants  accounts based
on a pre-determined formula. Cabot has established a minimum and maximum
contribution percentage of total eligible pay of 4% and 8%, respectively. The
actual contribution percentage in any given quarter varies depending on Cabot s
stock price on the last day of the relevant quarter, the total eligible
compensation and the amount of the dividends allocated to participants. If the
calculated contribution allocation falls below 4%, Cabot makes an additional
contribution in the form of common stock to bring the total contribution to 4%
for the participant. If the calculated contribution allocation exceeds 8% of
eligible compensation, the excess shares are used to fund the Company match on
the 401(k) contributions. If there are still shares remaining after the Company
match has been allocated, the remaining shares are allocated to all participants
in the ESOP as additional contribution shares.  

    Defined Benefit Plans    

  Defined benefit plans
provide pre-determined benefits to employees to be distributed for future use
upon retirement. Measurement of defined benefit pension expense is based on assumptions
used to value the defined benefit pension liability at the beginning of the
year. The CBP and certain foreign pension plans generally use the straight-line
method of amortization over five years for the unrecognized net gains and
losses. In fiscal 2006 and 2005, Cabot used a June 30 measurement date for
all U.S. and foreign plan obligations and assets. Cabot is making all required
contributions to the plans.  

  Cabot has assets of $13
million and $12 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, that
the Company has designated to fund pension obligations for one of its foreign
plans. These pension plan assets are not included in the pension plan assets as
of September 30, 2006 and 2005 as they do not qualify as plan assets under
FAS No. 87,  Employers  Accounting for Pensions , because they are not
specifically segregated or restricted for use to fund the defined benefit plan
obligation, and accordingly, the assets are not shown in the funded status at September 30,
2006 and 2005. These assets are included in other assets in the consolidated
balance sheets.  

    Cash Balance Plan    

  The CBP is a hybrid
pension plan, in which participants in the CBP accrue benefits in the form of
account balances, with a guaranteed rate of return and defined notional
contributions. The notional contributions take the form of pay-based credits,
which are computed as a percentage of eligible pay and credited quarterly to
participant accounts. Interest is credited quarterly based on the average
one-year Treasury bill rate for the month of November in the preceding
calendar year. Approximately 125 employees have  grandfathered  benefits under
a traditional defined benefit formula, which, under certain   

84     

circumstances,
may entitle them to benefits in addition to those accrued under the CBP. Cabot s
benefit obligations with regard to such employees are accounted for as part of
Cabot s defined benefit obligations. Cabot contributes to the plan based on the
fair value of plan assets and associated returns and Cabot s obligations and
their timing.  

  Cabot provides benefits
under traditional defined benefit formulas to employees in certain non-U.S.
locations through several foreign defined benefit plans.  

    Supplemental Executive Plans    

  Cabot has Supplemental
Executive Retirement Plans ( SERP ) to provide benefits to certain executive
officers, other officers and employees of the Company. These plans are
non-qualified and unfunded. The Supplemental Retirement Savings Plan ( SRSP )
and the Supplemental Cash Balance Plan ( SCBP ), collectively the SERP s, were
established to provide benefits to highly compensated employees in
circumstances in which the maximum limits established under the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) and the Internal Revenue Code
prevent them from receiving some of the benefits provided under the qualified
RSP and CBP.  

  The obligations in
connection with the supplemental plans were $18 million as of September 30,
2006 and 2005, and have been recorded in other liabilities. Of this,
$8 million are obligations under the SCBP and are included in benefit
obligations in the reconciliation of benefit obligations below, and
$10 million are obligations under the SRSP and are not included in the
reconciliation of benefit obligations below.  

    Postretirement Benefit Plans    

  Cabot also has
postretirement benefit plans that provide certain health care and life
insurance benefits for retired employees. Typical of such plans, the Cabot
postretirement benefit plans are unfunded. Cabot funds the plans as claims or
insurance premiums come due, as plans are not required to have assets for this
obligation. Cabot established a per retiree cap on the amount the Company will
pay for medical costs to limit the Company s financial responsibility for the
cost of providing medical coverage and mitigate the risk of a potential
escalation in costs borne by Cabot for retiree medical coverage.  

  The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003 was passed by the United States Congress in March 2003.
FASB Staff Position 106-2 ( FSP 106-2 ) provides accounting
guidance related to the Act. Cabot has determined that its U.S. defined benefit
postretirement health care plan provides a drug benefit that is actuarially
equivalent to the Medicare Part D benefit. Under the plan s cost sharing
arrangement with retirees, the subsidy that Cabot will receive from Medicare will
generally be used to offset the costs of providing retiree medical coverage.  

  Measurement
of postretirement benefit expense is based on actuarial assumptions used to
value the postretirement benefit liability at the beginning of the year.
Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts
reported for the health care plans. The health care cost trend rates are
reducing gradually to the ultimate projected future rates and have been
achieved for all but one U.S. plan and one foreign plan in 2006. The fiscal
2006 weighted-average assumed health care cost trend rate is 10.0% for U.S.
plans and 8.6% for foreign plans. The ultimate weighted-average health care
cost trend rate has been designated as 5.0% for U.S. plans and 7.3% for foreign
plans and is anticipated to be achieved during 2011 and 2013, respectively. A
one-percentage point change in the 2006 assumed health care cost trend rate
would have the following effects:  

1-Percentage-Point   

Increase   

Decrease   

U.S.   

Foreign   

U.S.   

Foreign   

(Dollars in millions)   

Effect on total of
  service and interest cost components  

$  

$  

$  

$  

Effect on postretirement benefit obligation  

$  

3  

$  

3  

$  

$  

(2  

)  

85  

The
following provides a reconciliation of benefit obligations, plan assets, the
funded status and weighted-average assumptions of the defined benefit pension
and postretirement benefit plans:  

(1)                   Included
in this amount is $1 million the Company paid directly to participants in its
foreign defined benefits plans in 2006 and 2005. 

86     

Pension Assumptions
and Strategy    

  The following assumptions were used to determine the
benefit obligations at September 30:  

The discount rate that Cabot uses for determining
future benefit obligations under the U.S. Defined Benefit Plans is based on
Moody s Aa index rate as of June 30, 2006 (the measurement date), less 25
basis points. The Moody s Aa index rate was selected and continues to be an
appropriate rate for Cabot, since it represents a long term high quality fixed
income benchmark which approximates the long term nature of Cabot s pension
obligation (and related payout). Due to the nature of the CBP in the U.S.,
which typically pays quicker than an annuity as it allows for a lump sum
payment to a participant upon retirement, Cabot s policy is to reduce the Moody s
Aa index rate by 25 basis points. The reduction in the rate from the index
provides for a better match of the intended maturity of the pension obligation.  

  As of the June 30, 2006 the discount rate under
Moody s Aa was 6.08%. Cabot used this as its benchmark to determine the
discount rate for its future benefit obligations at the end of fiscal 2006.  

  Cabot s investment strategy for each of its defined
benefit plans in the U.S. and abroad is generally based on a set of investment
objectives and policies which cover time horizons and risk tolerance levels
consistent with plan liabilities. Periodic studies are performed to determine the
asset mix that will meet pension obligations at a reasonable cost to the
Company. The assets of the worldwide defined benefit plans are comprised
principally of investments in equity and high quality fixed income securities,
which are broadly diversified across the capitalization and style spectrum and
are managed using both active and passive strategies. The weighted average
target allocation for U.S. plans is 60%-70% in equity and 30%-40%
in fixed income. As of September 30, 2006, the weighted average target
allocation for foreign plans was 45% in equity and 55% in fixed income.  

  The
Company s defined benefit pension plans weighted-average asset allocations at September 30,
2006 and 2005, by asset category are as follows:  

To develop the expected long-term rate of return on
plan assets assumption, the Company used a Capital Asset Pricing model. The
model considers the current level of expected returns on risk-free investments
comprised of government bonds, the historical level of the risk premium
associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested, and
the expectations for future returns of each asset   

87     

class. The expected return
for each asset class was then weighted based on the target asset allocation to
develop the expected long-term rate of return for each plan.  

  Net
periodic defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit costs include
the following components:  

The termination benefits are accounted for under FAS No. 88,
 Employers  Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit
Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits . In connection with the Altona
plant closure, the Company recorded a charge of $2 million in the first quarter
of fiscal 2005 for special termination benefits related to the severance and
employee benefits program offered to employees. This has been included as a
component of the Altona restructuring charges.  

  For
those plans where the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the related fair
value of plan assets, the accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan
assets for Cabot s pension benefits are as follows:  

For
those plans where the projected benefit obligation exceeded the related fair
value of plan assets, the projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan
assets for Cabot s pension benefits are as follows:  

The accumulated benefit
obligation was $123 million for the U.S. plans and $203 million for the foreign
plans as of September 30, 2006 and $128 million for the U.S. plans and
$198 million for the foreign plans at September 30, 2005.  

88  

Contributions    

  The Company does not
expect to contribute to its U.S. pension plan in 2007 as the plans are fully
funded. However, the Company expects to contribute approximately $12 million to
its foreign plans in fiscal 2007.  

    Estimated Future
Benefit Payments    

  The
Company expects that the following benefit payments will be made to plan
participants:  

Note N. Stock-Based
Compensation     

  Cabot established the 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan
(the  2006 Plan ) in order to provide equity-based compensation to the Company s
key employees, advisors and consultants.  The 2006 Plan was approved by Cabot s
stockholders on March 9, 2006 and replaces the 1996 Equity Incentive Plan
and the 1999 Equity Incentive Plan. Although the 2006 Plan allows Cabot to
issue various forms of equity, Cabot expects to use the 2006 Plan primarily to
issue shares of restricted stock and stock options under its long-term
incentive compensation program. The terms of awards made under this program are
generally determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. As
the program has been administered since 1992, participants are granted a
specific number of shares of common stock (the  Grant Number ) that the
participant may then elect either (i) to purchase as shares of restricted
stock at a percentage of the market price of such stock on the date of grant
(which in the last six years has been 30%) or (ii) to receive as
non-qualified stock options for a number of shares of common stock equal to two
times the Grant Number, exercisable at 100% of the market price of such stock
on the date of grant. Both the purchased restricted stock and the stock options
granted under the program are subject to a three-year vesting period. Stock
options granted under the program expire five years from the date of grant. Certain
of the terms under which stock options and restricted stock are issued to
international employees are modified slightly from the terms of awards made to employees
in the U.S. to account for tax or securities laws issues applicable to such
international employees. Approximately 1.1 million stock awards have been
granted under the 2006 Plan and there are approximately 3.4 million shares
available for future grants at September 30, 2006. No new awards may be
granted under either the 1996 Equity Incentive Plan or the 1999 Equity
Incentive Plan, but there remain outstanding awards previously granted under
these plans.  

  Through fiscal year 2005,
Cabot followed Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 25,  Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees , and related interpretations, which resulted in
the accounting for grants of awards to employees at their intrinsic value in
the consolidated financial statements. On October 1, 2005, Cabot adopted
FAS No. 123(R), using the modified prospective method, which permits
the provisions of FAS 123(R) to be applied to the consolidated
financial statements on a going-forward basis. Prior periods have not been
adjusted. FAS 123(R) requires companies to recognize share-based
payments to employees as compensation expense on a fair value method. Under the
fair value recognition provisions of FAS 123(R), stock-based compensation
cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair   

89     

value of
the award and is recognized as expense over the service period, which generally
represents the vesting period. The fair value of stock options is calculated
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and the fair value of restricted
stock is based on intrinsic value. The expense recognized over the service
period is required to include an estimate of the awards that will be forfeited.
Previously, as permitted under APB 25, Cabot recorded the impact of forfeitures
as incurred. In connection with the adoption of FAS 123(R), during the
first quarter of fiscal year 2006, Cabot recorded a $2 million gain
(after-tax) from the cumulative effect of the change from recording forfeitures
as they occur to estimating forfeitures during the service period. In addition,
the previously recorded unearned compensation balance of $41 million, as
of the date of adoption, which was included as a component of stockholders 
equity, was reclassified to additional paid-in capital and retained earnings.  

    Stock-based
Compensation    

  Prior
to the adoption of FAS 123(R), Cabot included in its consolidated financial
statements the stock-based compensation disclosure requirements of FAS No. 148,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure . The
following table illustrates the effect the fair value recognition provisions of
FAS No. 123  Accounting for Stock Based Compensation  would have had on
net income (loss) and earnings per share for the years ended September 30,
2005 and 2004.  

Stock-based
employee compensation expense was $15 million after tax for the year ended September 30,
2006. The Company recognized the full impact of its stock-based employee
compensation in the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended September 30,
2006 under FAS 123(R) and did not capitalize any such costs on the
consolidated balance sheets because those that qualified for capitalization
were not material. The following table presents stock-based compensation
expenses included in the Company s consolidated statement of operations:  

Year Ended 
  September 30, 2006   

(Dollars in millions)   

Cost of sales  

$ 9  

Selling and
  administrative  

12  

Research and technical  

2  

Stock-based compensation
  expense before tax  

23  

Income tax benefit  

(8  

)  

Net stock-based compensation expense  

$15  

90     

Stock
Options        As of September 30,
2006, Cabot has $1 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related
to non-vested options granted under the Company s equity incentive plans. That
cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.5 years. 

    Restricted Stock        As of September 30, 2006, Cabot has $37 million
of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested restricted stock
granted under the Company s equity incentive plans. That cost is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.58 years. 

    Equity Incentive
Plan Activity    

  The
following table summarizes the total stock option and the restricted stock
activity in the equity incentive plans for the year ended September 30,
2006:  

Stock Options    

  The
following table summarizes information related to the outstanding and vested
options on September 30, 2006:  

Options 
  Outstanding   

Vested 
  Options   

Aggregate Intrinsic
  Value (dollars in millions)  

$5  

$3  

Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term (in
  years)  

2  

1  

The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above
represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value, based on the Company s closing
common stock price of $37.20 on September 30, 2006, which would have been
received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options
on that date.  

  The
following table summarizes information related to the total intrinsic value of
options exercised during the year ended September 30, 2006:  

The Company settles employee stock option exercises
with newly issued common shares. The total fair value of the options
vested during the year ended September 30, 2006 was $6 million.  

  The Company uses the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of the options at
the grant date. The estimated weighted average fair values of options granted
during fiscal 2006, 2005 and   

91     

2004
were $8.40, $8.86 and $11.00 per option, respectively. The fair values on the
grant date were calculated using the following weighted-average assumptions:  

The expected stock price
volatility assumption was determined using the historical volatility of the
Company s common stock over the expected life of the option.  

   Note O. Restructuring     

    Cost Reduction
Initiatives    

  In September, 2006, Cabot announced a restructuring
plan principally to reduce the fundamental cost structure of the carbon black
product lines and strengthen the Company s financial health. These initiatives
include streamlining the Company s sales, manufacturing, technical service and
certain functional groups through a workforce reduction.  Implementation has begun and is expected to conclude
during the course of fiscal year 2007. The total number of employees impacted
by the cost reductions is expected to be approximately 130 people, with the
majority having left the Company by September 30, 2006. Termination and related benefits costs associated
with this restructuring have been and will be recorded in accordance with FAS
112,  Employers  Accounting for Postemployment Benefits ( FAS 112 ) or FAS 146,
 Accounting for the Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities  ( FAS
146 ), as appropriate. The total charge related to these initiatives was
$10 million as of September 30, 2006. The Company expects to record an
additional $3 million related to the restructuring and make cash payments of
$12 million during fiscal 2007.  

  In addition to the benefits accrued as part current
and prior restructuring plans, the Company offers other post-employment
benefits, as defined by FAS 112, to its employees. These benefits have not
been accrued as of September 30, 2006 or 2005 as the amount of the Company s
obligation cannot be reasonably estimated.  

  The
following summarizes the charge recorded for the workforce reductions at September 30,
2006:  

Altona
Restructuring    

  In October 2004,
Cabot initiated a plan to shut down its Altona, Australia carbon black
manufacturing facility due to an indication by Cabot s raw materials supplier
that it would cease supply in September 2005, as well as the decline of the
carbon black business in Australia. Production at this facility ceased on October 3,
2005. As of September 30, 2006, Cabot has recorded charges associated with
this restructuring of approximately $28 million, which is expected to be
partly offset by gains on the sale of the land on which the facility was located.
These gains are estimated to be between approximately $7 million and
$10 million (net of transaction costs) and the sale of the land is
expected to occur during fiscal 2007. No further charges are expected related
to this restructuring. The $28 million of charges includes   

92     

approximately
$9 million for severance and employee benefits, $7 million for
accelerated depreciation of the facility assets, $2 million for the
demolition of the facility, $2 million for asset retirement obligations
related to site remediation and restoration and $8 million for the
realization of foreign currency translation adjustments. As of September 30,
2006, substantial liquidation of the Company s operating subsidiary in
Australia has been completed and therefore, an $8 million non-cash charge for
the foreign currency translation adjustment has been recorded. All charges
associated with this restructuring initiative are related to the Carbon Black
Business. Cabot has recorded all of these charges in the consolidated
statements of operations since October 2004 and has $2 million of reserves
recorded as of September 30, 2006. It is anticipated that the remaining
$2 million of reserves will be paid during fiscal 2007 in connection with
the remediation and restoration of the property.  

  Details
of the Altona restructuring activity and changes in the reserve during the
years ended September 30, 2005 and 2006 are as follows:  

The charges related to the
Altona restructuring for the year ended September 30, 2006 are exclusive
of $1 million of gains on the sale of fixed assets.  

    European and Zierbena Restructuring    

  As of September 30,
2006, the Company had less than $1 million of restructuring reserves for
severance and employee benefits related to the Company s fiscal 2003 European
restructuring plan and closure of its carbon black manufacturing facility in
Zierbena, Spain and less than $1 million of asset retirement obligations
related to site remediation and restoration of the Zierbena facility. During
fiscal 2006, $4 million of payments were made related to these restructurings.
Cabot expects the remaining accruals to be paid out during fiscal 2007 in
connection with the completion of the site remediation and restoration.  

  As of September 30,
2006, the reserve balances for the Cost Reduction Initiatives and the Altona,
European and Zierbena restructurings are included in accrued expenses in the
consolidated balance sheets.  

  Restructuring
costs were recorded in the consolidated statements of operations for the years
ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 as follows:  

93  

Note P. Stockholders  Equity     

  In May 2004, the
Board of Directors authorized Cabot to purchase up to 5 million shares of Cabot
common stock. Approximately 1.1 million, 1.6 million and 1.7 million shares
have been repurchased during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively. Approximately 1.6 million shares remain available
for repurchase under the current authorization.  

  In November 1995,
Cabot declared a dividend of one Preferred Stock Purchase Right ( Right ) for
each outstanding share of Cabot s common stock. Each Right entitled the holder,
upon the occurrence of certain specified events, to purchase from Cabot one
one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
at a purchase price of $200 per share. The Rights expired on November 10,
2005.  

  In November 1988,
Cabot sold 75,336 shares of its Series B ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock to
the ESOP for cash at a price of $1,000 per share. Each share of the Series B
ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible into 146.4 shares of Cabot s
common stock, subject to certain events and anti-dilution adjustment
provisions, and carries voting rights on an  as converted  basis. The trustee
of the ESOP has the right to convert the shares of Series B ESOP Convertible Preferred
Stock to common stock. In addition, the trustee for the ESOP has the right to
cause Cabot to redeem shares sufficient to provide for periodic distributions
to plan participants. Cabot has the option to redeem the shares for $1,000 per
share, convert the shares to common stock, or a combination thereof.  

  The issued shares of Series B
ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock receive preferential and cumulative quarterly
dividends and are ranked as to dividends and liquidation prior to Cabot s
common stock. For purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, the Series B
ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock is assumed to be converted to common stock
based on the 146.4 conversion rate. At September 30, 2006, 6 million
shares of Cabot s common stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of
the Series B ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock.  

  Cabot is the guarantor for
the outstanding debt held by the ESOP as described in Note J. Cabot contributed
$4 million in 2006 and 2005 and $3 million in 2004 to the ESOP to service the
debt. Dividends on ESOP shares used for debt services were $3 million in 2006
and $4 million in 2005 and 2004. In addition, actual interest incurred on debt
associated with the ESOP was $3 million in 2006 and $4 million in 2005 and
2004.  

  During 2006, 2005 and
2004, Cabot paid cash dividends of $77.50 per share of Series B ESOP Convertible
Preferred Stock and $0.64, $0.64 and $0.60, respectively, per share of common
stock.  

94     

Comprehensive
Income    

  The pre-tax, tax and
after-tax effects of the components of other comprehensive income (loss) are
shown below:  

(1)                   During the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2004, Cabot recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $12
million in other charges related to the value of its investment in the Sons of
Gwalia stock due to a significant decline in its fair market value. The Sons of
Gwalia stock was suspended from trading after the Company appointed voluntary
administrators under the Australian Corporation Act, which is similar to U.S.
bankruptcy. The loss was recognized and the book value of this investment was
reduced to zero. 

                              The
balance of related after-tax components comprising accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) are summarized below: 

95     

Note Q. Earnings Per Share     

  Basic
and diluted earnings per share ( EPS ) were calculated as follows:  

(1)                   Represents
outstanding restricted stock issued under Cabot s Equity Incentive Plans. 

  (2)                   Represents
dividends paid on preferred stock, which would not be paid on common stock
issued upon conversion of preferred stock. Due to the Company s net loss
position dividends on preferred stock were not added back to income (loss)
available to common shares for the year ended September 30, 2005 when
calculating diluted EPS. 

  (3)                   Commencing in
fiscal 2004, Cabot has adjusted its calculation of diluted shares outstanding
to reflect the number of shares the Company could repurchase with the assumed
proceeds from restricted stock awards under the Company s Long Term Incentive
Program. 

  (4)                   Represents
incremental shares from the assumed conversion of stock options and outstanding
restricted stock issued under Cabot Equity Incentive Plans. 

  (5)                   At
September 30, 2006, 100,000 of options to purchase shares of common stock
outstanding were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share
because those options  exercise prices were greater than the average market
price of Cabot common stock. For the year ended September 30, 2005,
approximately 7 million common shares, based on assumed conversion of preferred
stock, and 1 million of common shares, representing restricted stock and stock
options issued under Cabot s Equity Incentive Plans, were excluded from the
calculation of diluted earnings per share, as those shares would have been
anti-dilutive due to the Company s net loss position. At September 30,
2004, 100,000 of options to purchase shares of common stock outstanding were
not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because those
options  exercise prices were greater than the average market price of Cabot
common stock. 

96  

Note R. Income
Taxes     

  Income (loss) before
income taxes was as follows:  

Taxes
on income consisted of the following:  

The
provision for income taxes at Cabot s effective tax rate differed from the
provision for income taxes at the statutory rate as follows:  

Years Ended September 30   

2006      

2005      

2004      

(Dollars in millions)   

Continuing Operations:  

Computed tax expense at the federal statutory rate  

$  

34  

$  

(32  

)  

$  

57  

Foreign income:  

Impact of taxation at different rates, repatriation
  and other  

(19  

)  

(20  

)  

(17  

)  

Impact of foreign losses for which a current tax benefit
  is not available  

9  

5  

4  

State taxes, net of federal effect  

1  

(1  

)  

Recognition of currency translation loss  

2  

Supermetals Business goodwill impairment charge  

31  

Extraterritorial income exclusion/foreign sales
  corporation  

(2  

)  

(4  

)  

(6  

)  

U.S. and state benefits from research and
  experimentation activities  

(3  

)  

(1  

)  

Competent authority relief  

(7  

)  

Tax audit settlements  

(18  

)  

(23  

)  

Valuation allowance on Sons of Gwalia investment
  loss  

8  

Other, net  

2  

2  

1  

Total Continuing
  Operations  

$  

9  

$  

(45  

)  

$  

39  

97     

Significant
components of deferred income taxes were as follows:  

In 2006, Cabot recorded
$18 million of tax benefits in net income from continuing operations, $12
million from the settlement of an Internal Revenue Service audit of the years
2000 to 2002 and $6 million related to tax settlements in other jurisdictions. In
addition, Cabot recorded a $2 million tax benefit in discontinued operations
from the settlement of an Internal Revenue Service audit of the years 2000 to
2002.  

  In 2005, Cabot recorded a
$23 million tax benefit for the settlement of an Internal Revenue Service audit
of the years 1997 to 1999 and refund claims for credits generated in those
years.  

  In 2004, Cabot recorded a
$7 million tax benefit for a tax audit filing resolved in the same year.  

  Cabot has filed its tax
returns in accordance with the tax laws in each jurisdiction and maintains tax
reserves for differences between tax expense as finally determined and income
tax expense for exposures that can be reasonably estimated. In the event that
actual results are significantly different from these estimates, Cabot s
provision for income taxes could be significantly impacted.  

  Approximately $214 million of net operating loss
carryforwards and $19 million of other tax credit carryforwards remain at September 30,
2006. Of the net operating loss carryforwards, $90 million will expire in the
years 2007 through 2013, $26 million will expire in years after 2013, and $98 million
can be carried forward indefinitely. Of the tax credit carryforwards, $18
million will expire in years after 2013 and $1 million can be carried forward
indefinitely. The benefits of these carryforwards are dependent upon taxable
income during the carryforward period in the jurisdictions where they arose.
Accordingly, a   

98     

valuation
allowance has been provided where management has determined that it is more
likely than not that the carryforwards will not be utilized.  

  Provisions have not been
made for U.S. income taxes or non-U.S. withholding taxes on approximately $371
million of undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, as these earnings
are considered indefinitely reinvested. These earnings could become subject to
U.S. income taxes and non-U.S. withholding taxes if they were remitted as
dividends, were loaned to Cabot or a U.S. subsidiary, or if Cabot should sell
its stock in the subsidiaries.  

  Cabot has net U.S.
deferred tax assets of $99 million that it believes are more likely than not recoverable
through future taxable income. However, recovery is dependent on achieving the
Company s forecast of future operating income over an extended period of time.
As of September 30, 2006, the Company would require approximately $285
million in cumulative future U.S. operating income, adjusted for permanent
differences (book/tax differences that will not reverse), to be generated at
various times over approximately 20 years to realize its net U.S. deferred tax
assets. The Company will review its forecast in relation to actual results and
expected trends on an ongoing basis. Failure to achieve the Company s operating
income targets may change its assessment regarding the recoverability of its
net deferred tax assets and such change could result in a valuation allowance
being recorded against some or all of its U.S. deferred tax assets. Any
increase in a valuation allowance would result in additional income tax
expense, lower stockholders  equity and could have a significant impact on the
Company s earnings in future periods.  

  The valuation allowance at
September 30, 2006 and 2005 represents management s best estimate of the
non-realizable portion of the net deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance increased in certain tax jurisdictions by $3
million in 2006 due to the uncertainty of the ultimate realization of certain
future tax benefits and net operating losses reflected as deferred tax assets.  

  The preparation of
consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amount of tax-related assets and liabilities and
income tax provisions. Cabot assesses the recoverability of its deferred tax
assets on an ongoing basis. In making this assessment, Cabot is required to
consider all available positive and negative evidence to determine whether,
based on such evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of
its net deferred assets will be realized in future periods. This assessment
requires significant judgment. In addition, the Company has made significant
estimates involving current and deferred income taxes. Cabot does not recognize
current and future tax benefits until it is deemed probable that certain tax
positions will be sustained.  

99     

Note S. Commitments and Contingencies     

    Operating Lease Commitments    

  Cabot
leases certain transportation vehicles, warehouse facilities, office space,
machinery and equipment under operating cancelable and non-cancelable leases,
most of which expire within ten years and may be renewed by Cabot. Rent expense
under such arrangements for 2006, 2005 and 2004 totaled $20 million, $10
million and $9 million, respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under
non-cancelable leases are as follows:  

Other Long-Term Commitments    

  Cabot has entered into
long-term purchase agreements for various key raw materials in the Carbon
Black, Metal Oxides and Supermetals Businesses. The purchase commitments for
the Supermetals Business covered by these agreements are with suppliers and are
estimated to aggregate approximately $112 million for the periods 2007 through
2011 and thereafter. Purchases under these agreements are expected to be
approximately $46 million, $45 million, $15 million, $2 million, $2 million and
$2 million for 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 and thereafter, respectively.
Raw materials purchased under these agreements were $37 million in 2006 and $76
million in 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

  On February 8, 2006,
the Company and the Sons of Gwalia settled their dispute over the price to be
paid by Cabot for tantalum ore under an existing supply agreement. As part of
the settlement, the companies terminated their existing agreement and entered
into a new three-year tantalum ore supply agreement that incorporates a
significantly reduced annual volume commitment. Cabot made a lump sum payment
of $27 million to terminate the then existing supply agreement and other
related agreements. Under the new agreement, which is denominated in Australian
dollars, Cabot will pay higher prices for ore than under the prior agreement.
The $27 million lump sum payment has been recorded as an expense during
fiscal 2006 and has been included as a component of cost of goods sold in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. The purchase commitments
under the new contract have been included in the amounts discussed above for
the Company s Supermetals Business.  

  The purchase commitments
for the Carbon Black Business covered by these agreements are with various
suppliers and are estimated to aggregate approximately $1.3 billion for the
periods 2007 through 2011 and thereafter. Purchases under these agreements are
expected to be approximately $172 million, $188 million, $115 million, $91
million, $89 million and $623 million for 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 and
thereafter, respectively. Raw materials purchased under these agreements were
$146 million, $63 million and $26 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
The increase in purchase commitments for the Carbon Black Business is a result
of raw material supply agreements the Company secured for its newly constructed
Carbon Black facility located in Tianjin, China.  

  The purchase commitments for the Metal Oxides Business
covered by these agreements are with various suppliers and are estimated to
aggregate approximately $94 million for the periods 2007 through 2011 and
thereafter. Purchases under these agreements are expected to be $9 million, $2
million, $2 million, $3 million, $3 million and $75 million for 2007, 2008,
2009, 2010 and 2011 and thereafter,   

100     

respectively.
Raw materials purchased under these agreements were $8 million, $12 million and
$109 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

    Guarantee Agreements    

  Cabot has provided certain
indemnities pursuant to which it may be required to make payments to an
indemnified party in connection with certain transactions and agreements. In
connection with certain acquisitions and divestitures, Cabot has provided
routine indemnities with respect to such matters as environmental, tax,
insurance, product and employee liabilities. In connection with various other
agreements, including service and supply agreements, Cabot may provide routine
indemnities for certain contingencies and routine warranties. In most cases, a
maximum obligation is not explicitly stated, thus the potential amount of
future maximum payments cannot be reasonably estimated. The duration of the
indemnities varies, and in many cases is indefinite. Cabot has not recorded any
liability for these indemnities in the consolidated financial statements,
except as otherwise disclosed.  

    Contingencies    

  Cabot is a defendant, or
potentially responsible party, in various lawsuits and environmental
proceedings wherein substantial amounts are claimed or at issue.  

  As of September 30,
2006 and 2005, Cabot had $13 million and $17 million, respectively, reserved
for environmental matters primarily related to divested businesses. In 2006 and
2005, there was $4 million in accrued expenses and $9 million and $13 million,
respectively, in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets for
environmental matters. These amounts represent Cabot s best estimates of its
share of costs likely to be incurred at those sites where costs are reasonably
estimable based on its analysis of the extent of clean up required, alternative
clean up methods available, abilities of other responsible parties to
contribute and its interpretation of laws and regulations applicable to each
site. Cabot reviews the adequacy of this reserve as circumstances change at
individual sites. Charges for environmental expense of $1 million and $1 million
in 2006 and 2005 were included in other income (charges) on the consolidated statements
of operations. Cash payments were $5 million and $4 million during
fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to these environmental matters.  

  At September 30,
2006, the operational and maintenance component of the $13 million reserve for
environmental matters includes $4 million on a net present value basis which
approximates $6 million on an undiscounted basis. Cabot expects to make
payments of $3 million from fiscal 2007 through 2011 and a total of $3 million
thereafter. A discount rate of 4.93% is used for the environmental liability at
September 30, 2006. The book value of the liabilities will be accreted up
to the undiscounted liability value through interest expense over the expected
cash flow period, which was less than $1 million during both fiscal 2006
and 2005.  

    Respirator Liabilities    

  Cabot has exposure in
connection with a safety respiratory products business that a subsidiary
acquired from American Optical Corporation ( AO ) in an April 1990 asset
purchase transaction. The subsidiary manufactured respirators under the AO
brand and disposed of that business in July 1995. In connection with its
acquisition of the business, the subsidiary agreed, in certain circumstances,
to assume a portion of AO s liabilities, including costs of legal fees together
with amounts paid in settlements and judgments, allocable to AO respiratory
products used prior to the 1990 purchase by the Cabot subsidiary. In exchange
for the subsidiary s assumption of certain of AO s respirator liabilities, AO
agreed to provide to the subsidiary the benefits of: (1) AO s insurance
coverage for the period prior to the 1990 acquisition, and (2) a former
owner s indemnity of AO holding it harmless from any liability allocable to AO
respiratory products used prior to May 1982. Generally, these respirator
liabilities involve claims for personal injury, including asbestosis and
silicosis, allegedly resulting from the use of respirators that are claimed to
have been negligently designed or labeled.  

101  

Neither Cabot, nor its past or present subsidiaries,
at any time manufactured asbestos or asbestos-containing products. Moreover,
not every person with exposure to asbestos giving rise to an asbestos claim
used a form of respiratory protection. At no time did this respiratory product
line represent a significant portion of the respirator market. In addition,
other parties, including AO, AO s insurers, and another former owner and its
insurers (collectively, the  Payor Group ), are responsible for significant
portions of the costs of these liabilities, leaving Cabot s subsidiary with a
portion of the liability in only some of the pending cases.  

  The subsidiary disposed of the business in July 1995
by transferring it to a newly-formed joint venture called Aearo Corporation ( Aearo )
and retained an equity interest in Aearo. Cabot agreed to have the subsidiary
retain liabilities allocable to respirators used prior to the 1995 transaction
so long as Aearo pays Cabot an annual fee of $400,000. Aearo can discontinue
payment of the fee at any time, in which case it will assume the responsibility
for and indemnify Cabot against the liabilities allocable to respirators
manufactured and used prior to the 1995 transaction. Cabot has no liability in
connection with any products manufactured by Aearo after 1995. Between July 1995
and September 30, 2001, the Company s total costs and payments in
connection with these respirator liabilities did not exceed the total amounts
received from Aearo. Since September 30, 2001, the Company s total costs
and payments in connection with these liabilities have exceeded the amount
Cabot has received from Aearo because of the significant increase in claims
filed against AO beginning in calendar year 2001. In August 2003, Cabot
and its subsidiary sold all of the subsidiary s equity interest in Aearo for
approximately $35 million. This sale did not alter the arrangements described
above.  

  As of December 31, 2002, there were approximately
50,000 claimants in pending cases asserting claims against AO in connection
with respiratory products. As of September 30, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006
there were approximately 87,000, 91,000, 92,000 and 63,000 claimants,
respectively. A large portion of the claims asserted during 2003 were filed in
Mississippi and appear to have been prompted by changes in Mississippi s state
procedural laws, which caused claimants to file their claims prior to the
effective date of these changes.  In 2005, a federal judge ruled that many of the  diagnoses 
presented in a broad silicosis class action were unreliable. As a consequence
of this ruling, silica and non-malignant asbestos claims filed throughout the
country have dropped significantly for AO and for defendants in general in
non-malignant asbestos and silica cases. In addition, many of the claims filed
against AO during 2003, 2004 and 2005, which were pending as of September 30,
2005, have been dismissed without payment. It is not clear at this time whether
this reduction in silica and non-malignant asbestos claims will continue or
stabilize or whether the number of these claims will rebound.  

  Cabot has contributed to the Payor Groups  defense and
settlement costs with respect to a percentage of pending claims depending on
several factors, including the period of alleged product use. Cabot engaged
through counsel the assistance of Hamilton, Rabinovitz   Alschuler, Inc.
( HR A ), a leading consulting firm in the field of tort liability
valuation, to quantify Cabot s estimated share of the liability for pending and
future respirator claims. The methodology developed by HR A addresses the
complexities surrounding Cabot s potential liability by making assumptions
about future claimants with respect to periods of asbestos exposure and
respirator use. Using those and other assumptions, HR A estimated the
number of future claims that would be filed and the related costs that would be
incurred in resolving those claims. On this basis, HR A then estimated the
net present value of the share of these liabilities that reflected Cabot s period
of direct manufacture and Cabot s contractual obligations assuming that all
other members of the Payor Group meet their obligations. Based on these
estimates, Cabot has a reserve for these matters of $18 million on a net
present value basis ($28 million on an undiscounted basis) at September 30,
2006.  

  It is important to note that in estimating Cabot s
share of liability for these matters, the Company has excluded settlement data
from the 2002 settlement of a large number of claims in Mississippi in estimating
future claims values. This settlement data was excluded because the procedure
by which claims values were   

102     

established in that
settlement was not in conformity with past practice. In this settlement,
generally, the values paid for claims were established before the claims were
actually asserted. As a result, payments made did not reflect substantial
differences between the severity of claims. Including this data, therefore,
would result in an unsupported increase in the projected settlement values for future
cases involving non-malignant injury, which represent a significant majority of
the pending and estimated future claims.  

  Cabot s current estimate of the cost of its share of
existing and future respirator liability claims is based on facts and circumstances
existing at this time. Developments that could affect our estimate include, but
are not limited to, (i) significant changes in the number of future
claims, (ii) a continuation in the recent trend of dismissals without
payment of pending silica and non-malignant asbestos claims that began this
year, (iii) significant changes in the average cost of resolving claims, (iv) significant
changes in the legal costs of defending these claims, (v) changes in the
nature of claims received, (vi) changes in the law and procedure
applicable to these claims, (vii) the financial viability of members of
the Payor Group and (viii) a determination that the Company s
interpretation of the contractual obligations on which it has estimated its
share of liability is inaccurate. Cabot cannot determine the impact of these
potential developments on its current estimate of its share of liability for
these existing and future claims. Accordingly, the actual amount of these
liabilities for existing and future claims could be different than the reserved
amount.  

  The $18 million liability
for respirator claims is recognized on a discounted basis using a discount rate
of 6.00% which represents management s best estimate of the risk free rate to
the cash flow payments of the liability that are projected through 2052. The
total expected aggregate undiscounted amount is $28 million. Cabot estimates
payments of approximately $4 million, $3 million, $2 million, $2 million, $1
million  in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and
2011, respectively, and a total of $16 million in 2012 through 2052. The book
value of the liabilities will be accreted up to the undiscounted liability
value through interest expense over the expected cash flow period, which was
less than $1 million in fiscal 2006. Cash payments were $1 million during
fiscal 2006 related to this liability.  

    Carbon Black Antitrust Litigation    

  During fiscal year 2003, the Company, Phelps Dodge
Corporation, Columbian Chemicals Co., Degussa Engineered Carbons, LP, Degussa
AG, and Degussa Corporation (referred to collectively as the  Defendants ),
were named in fifteen antitrust lawsuits filed in several federal district
courts, one of which was dismissed. The complaints were filed by the plaintiffs
on their own behalf and on behalf of all individuals or entities who purchased
carbon black in the United States directly from the Defendants from
approximately 1999 until the present (the  Period ) and allege that the
Defendants conspired to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize prices for carbon
black sold in the United States during the Period. In the complaint, the
plaintiffs seek treble damages in an unspecified amount and attorneys  fees. Liability
for damages in antitrust cases is joint and several among the defendants. In August 2003,
the pending federal cases were consolidated by a multi-jurisdictional panel and
transferred to the federal court for the District of Massachusetts. In the
second quarter of fiscal 2005, the Defendants were named in an antitrust
lawsuit filed in federal district court in New York. This action was
consolidated with the other pending federal cases. In June 2006, the
Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment. Arguments on the motion were
heard in October 2006. In November 2006, the plaintiffs filed a
pleading seeking the court s approval of a $4 million settlement with the
Degussa defendants. In the pleading, the plaintiffs estimated their total
damages (subject to trebling) to be approximately $100 million.  

  During fiscal years 2003 and 2004, the Company and the
above Defendants were named in nine actions filed in Superior Court of the
State of California on behalf of a purported class of indirect purchasers of
carbon black in the state of California from as early as November 1998 to
the present. During fiscal years 2004 and 2005, the Company and the above
Defendants were named in actions filed in state courts in the states of
Florida, Kansas, Tennessee, South Dakota, North Carolina and New Jersey on   

103     

behalf of all indirect
purchasers of carbon black in these respective states. Each of these complaints
asserts violations under the applicable state laws for conduct that is similar
to what is alleged in the federal cases described above. The plaintiffs in the
state actions also seek treble damages in an unspecified amount and attorneys 
fees. All nine pending California actions have been consolidated in the
Superior Court in the State of California (City and County of San Francisco).  

   The
Company believes it has valid defenses to all of these federal and state
antitrust claims and will continue to assert them vigorously. While the outcome
of litigation is uncertain, the Company does not believe that the ultimate
disposition of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the
Company s financial position.   

    Beryllium Claims    

  Cabot is a party to several pending actions in
connection with its discontinued beryllium operations. Cabot entered the
beryllium industry through an acquisition in 1978. We ceased manufacturing
beryllium products at one of the acquired facilities in 1979, and the balance
of our former beryllium business was sold to NGK Metals, Inc. in 1986.
During the last several years, several individuals who have resided or worked
for many years in the immediate vicinity of our former beryllium facility
located in Reading, Pennsylvania have brought suits against Cabot and NGK for
personal injury allegedly caused by beryllium particle emissions produced at
that facility. Nine personal injury claims against Cabot are pending in state
court in Pennsylvania. One of the claims was filed during the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2006. Discovery is ongoing in these cases.  

  Since October 2003, approximately 50 individuals
have asserted claims for medical monitoring now pending in numerous
Pennsylvania state court actions. The plaintiffs allege contact with beryllium
in various ways, including residence or employment in the area surrounding the
Reading facility, employment at the Reading facility or contact with
individuals who worked at the Reading facility. Discovery is underway in these
cases. In June 2006, summary judgment was granted to Cabot in connection
with the medical monitoring claims of three of these individuals. The plaintiffs
filed an appeal in July 2006.  

  There are also six beryllium product liability cases
pending in state courts, five of which are pending in California and one of
which is pending in Washington. Four California cases are stayed by court order
pending the testing of the plaintiffs for beryllium exposure, and discovery is
underway in the fifth California case. The Washington case is not active at
this time. In August 2006, a case pending in Florida was voluntarily
dismissed with prejudice by the plaintiffs.  

  In September 2006, Cabot was one of several named
defendants in  Anthony v. Small Tube Manufacturing Corp. et
al. , a class action complaint filed in the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania on behalf of certain present and
former employees of the U.S. Gauge Inc. facility in Sellersville, Pennsylvania.
U.S. Gauge is a company alleged to have purchased the beryllium-containing
products from Cabot. The class action alleges that the present and former
employees were exposed to beryllium dust and fumes during the machining of
beryllium-containing products purchased from Cabot and that they are therefore
entitled to receive medical monitoring. There are three other companies named
as defendants in the case. Cabot has filed an answer, cross-claims and
third-party counterclaims. Discovery in the case has not yet begun.  

  In December 2006, Cabot was one of several named
defendants in  Sheridan et al. v. NGK North America, Inc.,
et al. , a class action complaint filed in the Pennsylvania Court of Common
Pleas of Philadelphia County on behalf of persons who resided within a one mile
radius of the Reading facility for a period of at least six months between 1950
and 2000. The class action alleges that these persons were exposed to emissions
of beryllium from the Reading plant and are, therefore, entitled to receive
medical monitoring. Cabot has not yet responded to the complaint, and discovery
in the case has not yet begun.  

104     

Cabot believes it has valid defenses to all of these
beryllium actions and will assert them vigorously in the various venues in
which claims have been asserted. In addition, there is a contractual
indemnification obligation running from NGK to Cabot in connection with many of
these matters. While the outcome of litigation is uncertain, the Company does
not believe that the ultimate disposition of these matters will have a material
adverse effect on the Company s financial position.  

    Other    

  The Company has various
other lawsuits, claims and contingent liabilities arising in the ordinary
course of its business. In the opinion of the Company, although final disposition
of some or all of these other suits and claims may impact the Company s
financial statements in a particular period, they should not, in the aggregate,
have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position.  

   Note T. Risk
Management     

    Market Risk    

  Cabot s principal financial risk management objective
is to identify and monitor our exposure to changes in interest rates and
foreign currency rates, in order to assess the impact that changes in each
could have on future cash flow and earnings. Cabot manages these risks through
normal operating and financial activities and, when deemed appropriate, through
the use of derivative financial instruments as well as foreign currency debt.  

  Cabot s financial risk management policy prohibits
entering into financial instruments for speculative purposes. All instruments
entered into by Cabot are reviewed and approved by Cabot s Financial Risk
Management Committee, an internal management committee responsible for overseeing
Cabot s financial risk management policy.  

  By using derivative
instruments, Cabot is subject to credit and market risk. If a counterparty
fails to fulfill its performance obligations under a derivative contract, our
credit risk will equal the fair value of the derivative. Generally, when the
fair value of a derivative contract is positive, the counterparty owes Cabot,
thus creating a repayment risk for Cabot. We minimize the credit (or repayment)
risk in derivative instruments by entering into transactions with highly rated
counterparties that are reviewed periodically by us.  

    Interest Rates    

  Cabot s main objective in
managing its exposure to interest rate changes is to reduce the total funding
cost and thereby limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash
flows. Cabot uses interest rate swaps, foreign currency borrowings and foreign
currency swaps to accomplish this objective. Cabot s primary exposure is to the
U.S. dollar yield curve. For further details see Note K.  

    Foreign Currency    

  Cabot s international operations are subject to
certain risks, including currency fluctuations and government actions. The Company s
Treasury function, under the guidance of the Financial Risk Management
Committee, continuously monitors foreign exchange exposures, so that Cabot can
respond to changing economic and political environments. Exposures primarily
relate to assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies as well as
the risk that currency fluctuations could affect the dollar value of future
cash flows generated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, Cabot uses short-term
forward contracts and foreign currency options to minimize the exposure to
foreign currency risk. In 2006 and 2005, none of Cabot s forward contracts and
some of the foreign currency options were designated as hedging instruments
under FAS 133. Cabot s forward foreign exchange contracts are denominated
primarily in the   

105     

Euro, Japanese yen,
British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar and Indonesian
rupiah. The foreign currency options are denominated in Australian dollar.  

  At September 30, 2006 and 2005, Cabot had $161
million and $139 million respectively in foreign currency forward contracts
outstanding. The company also had foreign currency options with a notional
value of $87 million and zero outstanding at September 30, 2006 and 2005
respectively. For 2006, 2005 and 2004, the net realized gains associated with
the forward contracts were $3 million, $5 million and $4 million respectively.
The net unrealized losses as of September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively, were less than $1 million, $4 million and zero respectively,
based on the fair value of the instruments. Gains and losses associated with
foreign exchange contracts were not material to each respective period and are
recorded in other income (charges) on the consolidated statement of operations.  

  Cabot also uses non-U.S.
dollar denominated derivatives and non-derivatives (foreign currency debt)
financial instruments to hedge its foreign currency risk related to the
Japanese yen and the Euro. For further details see Note K.  

    Political Risk    

  Cabot is exposed to
political or country risks inherent in doing business in some countries. These
risks may include actions of governments, importing and exporting issues,
contract loss and asset abandonment. The Company considers these risks
carefully in connection with its investment and operating activities.  

    Share Repurchases    

  Cabot repurchases its
shares in order to offset dilution caused by issuing shares under the Company s
various employee stock plans. In addition, the Company may repurchase its shares
as one method of returning excess cash to shareholders.  

    Concentration of
Credit    

  Credit risk represents the loss that would be
recognized if counterparties failed to completely perform as contracted.
Financial instruments that subject Cabot to credit risk consist principally of
trade receivables. Furthermore, concentrations of credit risk exist for groups
of customers when they have similar economic characteristics that would cause
their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by
changes in economic or other conditions.  

  During fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, Goodyear Tire
and Rubber Company accounted for approximately 14%, 12% and 11%, respectively,
of Cabot s annual consolidated net sales. No other customer individually
represented more than 10% of net sales for any period presented. Cabot s loss
of this or other customers that may account for a significant portion of the
Company s sales, or any decrease in sales to any of these customers, could have
a material adverse effect on Cabot s business, financial condition or results
of operations.  

  Tire
manufacturers in the Carbon Black Business and customers of the Supermetals
Business comprise significant portions of Cabot s trade receivable balance. The
accounts receivable balance for these significant customers are as follows:  

106     

Cabot has not experienced
significant losses in the past from these customers. Cabot monitors its
exposure to customers to minimize potential credit losses.  

    Employee Benefits    

  Cabot provides defined benefit, defined contribution,
and postretirement plans for its employees. Cabot is exposed to risk related to
the defined benefit plan in the U.S. and several foreign defined benefit plans.
Cabot is obligated to pay certain future benefits to employees under these
plans. Cabot contributes to the plan assets each quarter based on the estimated
future obligation. If the fair value of plan assets held for the defined
benefit plans decreases due to market conditions, the expense to Cabot for
providing these benefits could increase in future years.  

  Cabot funds the
postretirement plans as claims or insurance premiums come due. The expense to Cabot
for providing these benefits could increase in future years. At September 30,
2006, the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation is $86 million in U.S.
plans and $17 million in foreign plans, of which $85 million in U.S. plans and
$11 million in foreign plans is reserved for this liability. For further
details see Note M.  

    Other Market Risks    

  Cabot is partially
self-insured for certain third party liability, workers  compensation and
employee health benefits in the United States and Canada. The third party and
workers  compensation liabilities are managed through a wholly-owned insurance
captive and the related liabilities are included in the consolidated financial
statements. Cabot has accrued amounts equal to the actuarially determined
liabilities. The actuarial valuations are based on historical information along
with certain assumptions about future events. Changes in assumptions for such
matters as legal actions, medical costs and changes in actual experience could
cause these estimates to change.  

   Note U. Financial
Information by Segment   Geographic Area     

    Segment Information    

  During the last quarter of fiscal 2005, management
changed its segment reporting structure to better reflect the way the Company
manages and thinks about the businesses. Under the new reporting structure,
Cabot is organized into four reportable segments: the Carbon Black Business,
the Metal Oxides Business, the Supermetals Business ( CSM ), and the Specialty
Fluids Business ( CSF ). Prior year segment information, which included the
disclosure of reportable segments, has been conformed to reflect this change.  

  The
Carbon Black Business is primarily comprised of the rubber blacks, performance
products and inkjet colorants product lines as well as the business development
activities of Cabot Superior MicroPowders ( CSMP ). The revenues from each of
these product lines are as follows:  

107  

Carbon black is a form of elemental carbon, which is
manufactured in a highly controlled process to produce particles and aggregates
of varied structure and surface chemistry, resulting in many different
performance characteristics for a wide variety of applications. Carbon black is
widely used to enhance the physical, electrical and optical properties of the
systems and applications in which it is incorporated. Carbon black is
manufactured to match customer needs and performance requirements and is sold to
diverse markets, including the automotive, building materials, agricultural,
coatings, toners, plastics, inkjet printing and electronics markets. The rubber
blacks products are used in tires and industrial products. Rubber blacks have
traditionally been used in the tire industry as a rubber reinforcing agent and
are also used as a performance additive. In industrial products such as hoses,
belts, extruded profiles and molded goods, rubber blacks are used to improve
the physical performance of the product. Performance products are specialized
grades of carbon black that are used to enhance conductivity and static charge
control, to provide UV protection, to enhance mechanical properties, to provide
chemical flexibility through surface treatment and as pigments. These products
are used in a wide variety of industries such as inks, coatings, cables, pipes,
toners and electronics. Cabot s performance products include black and white
thermoplastic concentrates and specialty compounds that are marketed to the
plastics industry. Cabot s inkjet colorants are high-quality pigment-based
black and other colorant dispersions the Company manufactures by surface
treating special grades of carbon black and other pigments. Cabot s inkjet
colorant products are produced for various inkjet printing markets, including
small office home office, high speed, wide format, and commercial and
industrial printing applications.  

  The
Metal Oxides Business is primarily comprised of the fumed metal oxides
(including fumed silica and fumed alumina and dispersions thereof) and aerogel
product lines. The revenues from each of these product lines are as follows:  

Fumed silica is an ultra-fine, high-purity particle
used as a reinforcing, thickening, abrasive, thixotropic, suspending or
anti-caking agent in a wide variety of products produced for the automotive,
construction, microelectronics and consumer products industries. These products
include adhesives, sealants, cosmetics, inks, toners, silicone rubber coatings,
polishing slurries and pharmaceuticals. Fumed alumina, also an ultra-fine,
high-purity particle, is used as an abrasive, absorbent or barrier agent in a
variety of products, such as inkjet media, lighting, coatings and cosmetics.
Cabot s aerogels are nano-structured high surface area hydrophobic silica
particles with potential uses in a variety of thermal and acoustic insulation
applications. This product has been incorporated into the skylight, window and
wall system products of several manufacturers of panels for use in the
daylighting segment of the construction industry. The product line continues to
focus on application and market development activities for use of aerogels in
other commercial areas, and in fiscal 2006, began working with several
potential customers to qualify our aerogels products for oil and gas pipeline
insulation applications.  

  The Supermetals Business produces tantalum, niobium
(columbium) and their alloys. Tantalum, which accounts for substantially all of
this Business s sales, is produced in various forms. Electronics is the largest
market for tantalum powder and wire, which are used to make capacitors for
computers, networking devices, wireless phones, electronics for automobiles and
other devices. Tantalum, niobium and their alloys are also produced in wrought
form for other applications such as the production of superalloys and chemical
process equipment, and for various other industrial and aerospace applications.

108     

In addition, the Company sells
tantalum products for the manufacture of tantalum sputtering targets used in
thin film applications, including semiconductors, inkjet heads, magnetics and
flat panel displays.  

  The Specialty Fluids Business produces and markets
cesium formate as a drilling and completion fluid for use in high pressure and
high temperature oil and gas well operations. Cesium formate products are
solids-free, high-density fluids that have a low viscosity, permitting them to
flow readily in oil and gas wells. The fluid is resistant to high temperatures,
minimizes damage to producing reservoirs and is readily biodegradable. Cesium
formate is blended and sold with other formates or products in a majority of
applications.  

  The accounting policies of the segments are the same
as those described in the summary of  Significant Accounting Policies. 
Exceptions are noted as follows and are incorporated in the tables below.
Revenues from external customers for certain product lines within the Carbon
Black Business include 100% of sales from one equity affiliate. Segment profit
is a measure used by Cabot s operating decision-makers to measure consolidated
operating results and assess segment performance. Cabot evaluates the
performance of its segments and allocates resources based on segment profit or
loss before taxes ( PBT ). Segment PBT includes equity in net income of affiliated
companies, royalties paid by equity affiliates and minority interest and
excludes corporate governance costs, interest expense, foreign currency
transaction gains and losses, interest income, dividend income, non-allocated
corporate overhead as well as certain items that have not been allocated to a
segment as they are significant and unusual or infrequent. Cash, short-term
investments, cost investments, income taxes receivable, deferred taxes and
headquarters  assets are included in unallocated and other. Expenditures for
additions to long-lived assets include total equity and other investments
(including available-for-sale securities), property, plant and equipment,
intangible assets and assets held for rent.  

109  

Financial
information by segment is as follows:  

(1)                     Income before taxes related to the Supermetals Business
for the year ended September 30, 2005 is exclusive of goodwill impairment
charges of $90 million, $121 million of long-lived asset impairment charges and
$15 of charges related to cost reduction initiatives, which are included in unallocated
and other charges.  

  (2)                     Unallocated and other includes certain corporate items
and eliminations that are not allocated to the operating segments.  

110     

(3)                     Revenues from external customers for the
Carbon Black Business includes 100% of sales from one equity affiliate  and at market-based prices. Unallocated and
Other revenues from external customers reflects an adjustment for the equity
affiliate sales and includes royalties paid by equity affiliates offset by
external shipping and handling fees:  

(4)                     Income (loss) from continuing operations
before taxes for Unallocated and Other includes:  

(a)                    Certain items includes investment income, and certain
other items that are not included in segment PBT. These certain items for
fiscal 2006 include a $10 million for charge for global restructuring
initiatives, $11 million for charges related to the closure of the
Company s Altona facility, $3 million for cost reduction initiatives and $27
million for the Sons of Gwalia settlement payment. These certain items for
fiscal 2005 include $16 million for restructuring charges, $90 million of
goodwill asset impairment charges as discussed in Note D, $121 million of
long-lived asset impairment charges as discussed in Note D and $15 million of
charges related to cost reduction initiatives in the Supermetals Business.
These certain items for fiscal 2004 include $6 million for restructuring
charges, a $12 million charge for the impairment of an investment, income of $2
million related to respirator reserve recoveries and $2 million of charges
related to other non-operating items.  

  (b)                    Net of other foreign currency risk management activity.  

  (c)                    Other unallocated income includes investment income and
other items that are not included in segment PBT.  

  (5)                     Unallocated and Other assets includes cash, short-term investments,
investments other than equity basis, income taxes receivable, deferred taxes
and headquarters  assets.  

  (6)                     Expenditures for additions to long-lived assets include
total equity and other investments (including available-for-sale securities),
property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and assets held for rent.  

111  

Geographic
Information    

  Sales are attributed to the United States and to all
foreign countries based on the location from which the sale originated.
Revenues and long-lived assets from external customers attributable to an
individual country, other than the United States and Japan, did not meet the
threshold for disclosure.  

  Revenues
from external customers and long-lived asset information by geographic area are
summarized as follows:  

(1)                   Long-lived
assets include total equity and other investments, (including
available-for-sale marketable securities), net property, plant and equipment,
net intangible assets and assets held for rent. 

112     

Note V. Unaudited
Quarterly Financial Information     

  Unaudited
financial results by quarter for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006
and 2005 are summarized below and should be read in conjunction with Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

(1)      Includes
$1 million charge for restructuring initiatives and $1 million charge for cost
reduction initiatives. 

  (2)      Includes
$2 million charge for restructuring initiatives, $2 million charge for cost
reduction initiatives and $27 million charge for the Sons of Gwalia settlement
payment. 

  (3)      Includes
$1 million charge for restructuring initiatives and $1 million charge for cost
reduction initiatives. 

  (4)      Includes
$10 million charge for global restructuring initiatives and $7 million charge
related to the closure of our Altona facility. 

  (5)      Amounts
related to the cumulative benefit resulting from the adoption of FAS 123(R) in
the first quarter of fiscal 2006, net of tax and amounts related to the
cumulative expense resulting from the adoption of FIN 47 in the fourth quarter
of 2006, net of tax. 

113     

(6)      Amount
relates to a favorable tax settlement recognized during the period related to
our discontinued liquified natural gas business. 

  (7)      Includes
$4 million charge for restructuring initiatives and $3 million of tax benefit
related to the closure of the Altona facility. 

  (8)      Includes
charges of $4 million for restructuring initiatives and $90 million for
goodwill asset impairment. 

  (9)      Includes
$4 million charge for restructuring initiatives. 

  (10)     Includes
charges of $3 million for restructuring initiatives, $15 million for cost
reduction initiatives and $121 million for long-lived asset impairment. 

114  

Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Cabot
Corporation:  

  We have completed integrated audits of Cabot
Corporation s 2006 and 2005 consolidated financial statements and of its
internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, and an
audit of its 2004 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our
opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.  

   Consolidated financial
statements   

  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Cabot Corporation and its subsidiaries at September 30,
2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2006 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on
a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  As discussed in Note N to the consolidated financial
statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for share-based
payments on October 1, 2005. As discussed in Note A to the consolidated
financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for asset
retirement obligations as of September 30, 2006.  

   Internal control over financial reporting   

  Also, in our opinion, management s assessment,
included in Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that the Company maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 based
on criteria established in  Internal Control -
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all
material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria
established in  Internal Control - Integrated Framework 
issued by the COSO. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express opinions on management s assessment and on the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting based
on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over financial
reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other
procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.  

  A company s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for   

115     

external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  

  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.  

  As described in Management s
Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, management has
excluded Cabot Japan K.K. from its assessment of internal control over
financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 because an additional 50%
interest was acquired by the Company in a purchase business combination during
fiscal year 2006. We have also excluded Cabot Japan K.K. from our audit of
internal control over financial reporting. Cabot Japan K.K. is a wholly owned
subsidiary whose total assets and total revenues represent $126 million and
$127 million, respectively, of the related consolidated financial statement
amounts as of and for the year ended September 30, 2006.  

  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP  

  Boston, Massachusetts 
December 14, 2006  

116  

Item 9.                             Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure    

  None.  

   Item 9A.                     Controls and Procedures    

   Disclosure Controls
and Procedures     

  Cabot carried out an
evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of its management,
including the Company s Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
Officer and its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), as
of September 30, 2006. Based on that evaluation, Cabot s Chairman of the
Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and its Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls
and procedures are effective with respect to the recording, processing,
summarizing and reporting, within the time periods specified in the Securities
and Exchange Commission s rules and forms, of information required to be
disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the
Exchange Act and such information is accumulated and communicated to management
to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  

   Management s Annual
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     

  Cabot s management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting for Cabot. Internal control over financial reporting is
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the
Exchange Act as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, a company s
principal executive and principal financial officers, and effected by the
company s board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and
procedures that:  

             Pertain
to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; 

             Provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and 

             Provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of the company s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements. 

  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may
deteriorate.  

  Cabot s management assessed the effectiveness of Cabot s
internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 based
on the framework established in  Internal Control Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this assessment, Cabot s management
concluded that Cabot s internal control over financial reporting was effective
as of September 30, 2006. During fiscal year 2006, Cabot purchased the 50%
equity interest it did not already own in 
Showa Cabot K.K. from our joint venture partner and renamed the entity
Cabot Japan K.K. Management has excluded Cabot Japan K.K. from its assessment
of internal control over financial   

117     

reporting as of September 30,
2006. Cabot Japan K.K. had total assets of $126 million and total revenue of
$127 million included in Cabot s consolidated financial statements as of and
for the year ended September 30, 2006.  

  Management s assessment of
the effectiveness of Cabot s internal control over financial reporting as of September 30,
2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their report that appears under Item 8.  

   Changes in Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting     

  There were no changes in
the Company s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
the Company s fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2006 that have
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
internal control over financial reporting. The Company is in the process of
reviewing the internal control of Cabot Japan K.K. and will make appropriate
changes as we incorporate our controls and procedures at Cabot Japan K.K. We
intend to disclose any changes in our internal control over financial reporting
resulting from the acquisition of Cabot Japan K.K. that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control
over financial reporting, within or prior to our first annual assessment of
internal control over financial reporting that is required to include Cabot
Japan K.K., which is the end of fiscal year 2007.  

   Item 9B.                    Other Information    

  None.  

118     

PART III     

   Item 10.                      Directors and Executive Officers   of the Registrant  

  Certain information
regarding our executive officers is included at the end of Part I of this
Annual Report under the heading  Executive Officers of the Registrant.   

  Cabot has adopted Global
Ethics and Compliance Standards, a code of ethics that applies to all of the
Company s employees and directors, including the Chief Executive Officer, the
Chief Financial Officer, the Controller and other senior financial officers.
The Global Ethics and Compliance Standards are posted on our website,
www.cabot-corp.com (under the  Corporate Governance  caption). We intend to
satisfy the disclosure requirement regarding any amendment to, or waiver of, a
provision of the Global Ethics and Compliance Standards applicable to the Chief
Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Controller or other senior
financial officers by posting such information on our website.  

  The other information
required by this item will be included in our Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders ( Proxy Statement ) and is herein incorporated by
reference.  

   Item
11.                      Executive Compensation    

  The information required
by this item will be included in our Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein
by reference.  

   Item
12.                      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
Related Stockholder Matters    

  The following table
provides information as of September 30, 2006 regarding the number of
shares of common stock that may be issued under Cabot s equity compensation plans.
All of our equity compensation plans have been approved by our stockholders.  

Plan category   

Number of 
  securities to be 
  issued upon exercise 
  of outstanding 
  options, warrants 
  and rights 
  (a)   

Weighted-average 
  exercise price of 
  outstanding options, 
  warrants and rights 
  (b)   

Number of securities 
  remaining available for future 
  issuance under equity 
  compensation plans 
  (excluding securities reflected 
  in column (a)) 
  (c)(2)   

Equity
  compensation plans approved by security holders(1)  

662,400  

$  

29.92  

3,447,600  

Equity compensation
  plans not approved by security holders  

N/A  

N/A  

N/A  

(1)             Included
in this category are the following equity plans that have been approved by
Cabot s stockholders:  2006 Long-Term
Incentive Plan, 1999 Equity Incentive Plan and 1996 Equity Incentive Plan. 

  (2)             The
number in this column of the table represents the securities remaining
available for future issuance under the 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. No new
awards may be made under either the 1996 Equity Incentive Plan or the
1999 Equity Incentive Plan although there remain outstanding awards
previously granted under these plans. 

  The other information
required by this item will be included in our Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.  

   Item 13.                      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions    

  The information required
by this item will be included in our Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein
by reference.  

   Item
14.                      Principal Accounting Fees and Services    

  The information required
by this item will be included in our Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein
by reference.  

119     

PART IV     

   Item 15.                      Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    

  (a)              Financial
Statements.    See  Index to Financial Statements  under Item 8
on page 57 of this Form 10-K. 

  (b)             Exhibits.    (Certain
exhibits not included in copies of the Form 10-K sent to
stockholders.) 

120  

The
exhibit numbers in the following list correspond to the numbers assigned to
such exhibits in the Exhibit Table of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. Cabot
will furnish to any stockholder, upon written request, any exhibit listed
below, upon payment by such stockholder of the Company s reasonable expenses in
furnishing such exhibit.  

121     

122     

123     

31(ii)  

Certification of
  Principal Financial Officer required by Rule 13a-14(a) or
  Rule 15d-14(a) of the Exchange Act.  

32   

Certifications of the
  Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18
  U.S.C. Section 1350.  

*                       Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

                          Filed
herewith. 

  (c)    Schedules.    The Schedules have been omitted because
they are not required or are not applicable, or the required information is
shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.  

124  

SIGNATURES     

  Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

CABOT CORPORATION  

By:  

/s/ KENNETT F. BURNES  

Kennett F. Burnes  

Chairman of the Board, President   

and Chief Executive Officer   

Date: December 14, 2006  

  Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
the capacities and on the dates indicated.  

Signatures   

Title   

Date   

/s/ KENNETT F.
  BURNES  

Director, Chairman of the Board, President  

December 14, 2006  

Kennett
  F. Burnes  

and
  Chief Executive Officer  

/s/ JONATHAN  p .
  MASON  

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial  

December 14, 2006  

Jonathan
  P. Mason  

Officer
  (principal financial officer)  

/s/ JAMES P.
  KELLY  

Controller  

December 14, 2006  

James
  P. Kelly  

(principal
  accounting officer)  

/s/ DIRK L.
  BLEVI  

Director and Executive Vice President  

December 14, 2006  

Dirk
  L. Blevi  

/s/ JOHN S.
  CLARKESON  

Director  

December 14, 2006  

John
  S. Clarkeson  

/s/ JUAN
  ENRIQUEZ-CABOT  

Director  

December 14, 2006  

Juan
  Enriquez-Cabot  

/s/ ARTHUR L.
  GOLDSTEIN  

Director  

December 14, 2006  

Arthur
  L. Goldstein  

/s/ GAUTAM S.
  KAJI  

Director  

December 14, 2006  

Gautam
  S. Kaji  

/s/ RODERICK
  C.G. MACLEOD  

Director  

December 14, 2006  

Roderick
  C.G. MacLeod  

/s/ JOHN H.
  MCARTHUR  

Director  

December 14, 2006  

John
  H. McArthur  

/s/ HENRY F.
  MCCANCE  

Director  

December 14, 2006  

Henry
  F. McCance  

125     

126     

EXHIBIT
INDEX     

127     

128     

129     

31(ii)  

Certification of
  Principal Financial Officer required by Rule 13a-14(a) or
  Rule 15d-14(a) of the Exchange Act.  

32   

Certifications of the
  Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18
  U.S.C. Section 1350.  

*                       Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

                          Filed
herewith. 

130  

<EX-10.(D)(VIII)>
 2
 a06-25226_1ex10ddviii.htm
 EX-10

EXHIBIT 10(d)(viii)   

Cabot Corporation   

  Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan  

   Master Plan Document   

Table of Contents   

1     

2     

Cabot Corporation   

Amended and Restated
Deferred Compensation Plan   

1.              In General .  This document amends, restates and continues
the Cabot Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ), which was
originally established effective January 1, 1995 and amended effective June 1,
1997 by Amendment 1997-1.  The purpose of
the Plan is to further the business interests of Cabot Corporation (the  Company )
by providing eligible employees and non-employee directors an opportunity to
defer some or all of their compensation on an unfunded, nonqualified basis as
hereinafter provided.  The provisions of
this amended and restated Plan are effective as of January 1, 2005.  

  2.              Defined Terms .  As used in the Plan, the following terms have
the meanings associated with them below:  

  2.1.           Account .  A memorandum account maintained by the
Administrator to reflect the Employer s unfunded deferred compensation
obligation to a Participant hereunder, including where the context requires any
sub-account.  

  2.2.           Administrator .  The Benefits Committee of the Company, whose
members are appointed by the Compensation Committee of the Board and serve at
the Compensation Committee s pleasure, or such other committee, person or
persons as the Board may designate.  The
term  Administrator  shall also include delegates of any of the foregoing.  

  2.3.           Board .  The Board of Directors of the Company.  

  2.4.           Code .  The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended.  

  2.5.           Consultant .  An individual performing consulting services
for an Employer (other than as an employee) who is designated by the
Administrator as eligible to participate in the Plan, provided that such
designation has not been revoked by the Administrator.  

  2.6.           Director .  Any member of the Board other than an
employee of any Employer.  

  2.7.           Director Fees .  The cash annual retainer fees and any meeting
fees paid by the Company as compensation for services on the Board or any
committee thereof.  

  2.8.           Earnings Measure .  An interest rate, stock index, bond index,
mutual fund or other objective external measure of investment performance
specified by the Administrator for purposes of measuring and crediting notional
earnings under Section 4(b) below.  In
the case of Eligible Pay deferred by a Director, the Earnings Measure  

3     

applied under
Section 4(b) below shall be limited to one of the following:  (i) a notional interest rate equal (for each
year) to the Moody s Rate for such year, or (ii) deemed investment in (i.e.
phantom units of) common stock of the Company. 
If the Earnings Measure is based on the Moody s Rate, all Eligible Pay
deferred by a Director during a calendar year shall be credited to the Director s
Account as of the first day of such calendar year.  If the Earnings Measure is based on common
stock of the Company, all Eligible Pay deferred by a Director during a calendar
quarter shall be credited to the Director s Account in phantom stock units as
of, and based on the closing price for the Company common stock on the New York
Stock Exchange on, the last trading day of such quarter, and phantom dividends
on such Account (based on the balance of phantom stock units in such Account on
the record date for each dividend declared on shares of Company common stock)
shall be added to such Account in phantom stock units as of, and based on the
closing price for the common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on, the date
dividends are actually paid on the common stock.  

  2.9.           Eligible Employee .  An individual employed by an Employer who is
(i) determined by the Administrator to qualify as a  highly compensated or
management  employee for purposes of Sections 201(a)(2), 301(a)(3) and
401(a)(1) of ERISA, and (ii) designated by the Administrator as eligible to
participate in the Plan, provided that such designation has not been revoked by
the Administrator.  

  2.10.         Eligible Pay .  Except as otherwise determined by the
Administrator, Eligible Pay shall include (i) in the case of an Eligible
Employee:  base salary, amounts payable
under the Company s short-term incentive program, and sales incentive bonuses;
(ii) in the case of a Consultant:  the
consulting fees payable by the Employer; and (iii) in the case of a
Director:  Director Fees.  The Administrator in its discretion may
include other categories of remuneration in, or exclude categories of
remuneration from, the definition of  Eligible Pay,  either in general or in
particular cases; provided, that any such change affecting Director Fees shall
also require the approval of the Board.  

  2.11.         Employer .  The Company and its Subsidiaries, or any of
them.  Except as otherwise specified by
the Administrator, however, participation in the Plan shall be limited to
Eligible Employees employed by, or Consultants providing services to, the
Company or one of the Subsidiaries listed in Appendix A hereto, and to
Directors.  

  2.12.         ERISA .  The Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended.  

  2.13.         Moody s Rate .  For any calendar year, the interest rate
specified in Moody s Bond Record under the heading of  Moody s Corporate Bond
Yield Averages   Av. Corp.,  as published for the month of November preceding
the calendar year.  

  2.14.         Participant .  A Consultant, Eligible Employee or Director
who participates in the Plan.  

4     

2.15.         RSP .  The Cabot Retirement Savings Plan as from
time to time amended and in effect.  

  2.16.         Subsidiary .  A corporation in which the Company holds,
directly or indirectly, stock possessing at least 50% of the total voting
power, and any other corporation or unincorporated trade or business that the
Board designates as a Subsidiary for purposes of the Plan.  

  3.              Deferral Election .  

  (a)            In general .  Each Eligible Employee and Consultant may
elect to defer hereunder a specified portion or percentage of his or her
Eligible Pay to be earned for services performed in any calendar year.  Except as the Administrator may otherwise
determine, Eligible Pay is earned for services performed in a year if (i) in
the case of base salary or Consultant s fees paid on a periodic basis, it would
normally be paid with respect to services performed in that year; or (ii) in
the case of other Eligible Pay, it is neither vested nor determinable at the
beginning of the year but becomes determinable at some point during the
year.  Each such deferral election shall
be made by the Participant s delivery to the Administrator of a deferral
election form on or before the date specified by the Administrator, but in any
case (except as provided in (b) below) prior to the first day of the calendar
year to which the deferral election relates.  

  (b)            First year of
participation .  Notwithstanding (a)
above, an individual who first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan
during the course of a calendar year may elect to defer a specified portion or
percentage of his or her Eligible Pay for the remainder of the year by
delivering to the Administrator a deferral election form within 30 days of
becoming eligible to participate in the Plan, such election to take effect as
of the first day of the month next following receipt by the Administrator of
such form or forms (the  initial effective date ). An election under this
paragraph shall be effective only as to Eligible Pay earned for services
performed in the period commencing on the initial effective date and ending on
the last day of the year, as determined by the Administrator under principles
similar to those set forth in (a)(i) and (a)(ii) above.  

  (c)            Limits .  Except as otherwise determined by the Administrator,
the maximum amount of Eligible Pay that an Eligible Employee may elect to defer
for any year shall be 50% of his or her base salary plus 100% of any other
Eligible Pay.  An Eligible Employee who
elects to defer any Eligible Pay for a year must defer at least $2,000.  The $2,000 minimum shall apply on a prorated
basis with respect to a partial year election under (b) above.  A Consultant may defer any portion or all of
his or her consulting fees for any year.  

  (d)            Form of election;
irrevocability .  Each deferral
election shall be made in writing on a form prescribed by the
Administrator.  The Administrator may
condition the effectiveness of any election upon the delivery by the
Participant of such other form or  

5     

forms as the
Administrator may prescribe.  A deferral
election applicable to Eligible Pay to be earned for services performed in a
particular calendar year shall be irrevocable once that year has begun (or, in
the case of an initial year of participation described in (b) above, once the
30-day election period has expired).  

  (e)            Special rules for
Directors .  The provisions of this
Section 3(e) shall apply, in the case of a Director, in lieu of the provisions
of Sections 3(a) through (d) above.  A
Director may defer up to 100% of any Eligible Pay for services performed in any
calendar year by completing and delivering a deferral election in accordance
with Section 3(d) above not later than December 31 of the preceding year.  Any individual may elect within 30 days after
becoming a Director to defer up to 100% of any Eligible Pay earned for services
performed subsequent to such election by completing and delivering a deferral
election in accordance with Section 3(d) above within such 30-day period.  A Director s Eligible Pay shall be treated as
earned for services performed in a calendar year if paid with respect to
services performed in such year.  The
minimum amount that a Director may defer any calendar year shall be $2,000.  

  4.              Accounts; Credits .  For each Participant, the Administrator shall
maintain one or more Accounts reflecting deferrals and notional earnings as
hereinafter provided.  

  (a)            Deferral credits .  Each amount deferred by a Participant under
Section 3 above shall be credited to the Participant s Account in the year the
amount would have been paid absent the deferral.  In addition, there shall be credited to the
Account of each Participant who is an Eligible Employee:  (i) for the year to which the Participant s
deferral election relates, an amount equal to 10% of any base salary elected to
be deferred by the Participant from that year; provided, that Participants who
also participate in the Company s supplemental plans (or any of them) shall not
be eligible for the additional credit described in this clause; and (ii)
subject to Treas. Regs.   1.401(k)-1(e)(6), if the Participant is a participant
in the RSP, an additional credit equal to the amount, if any, of matching
contributions that would have been made for the benefit of such Participant
under the RSP but for a reduction thereunder attributable to the limitations of
Sections 401(k) and 401(m) of the Code, provided that the Participant has
elected to participate in RSP to the maximum extent permitted by Section 401(k)
of the Code.  Notional earnings under (b)
below shall be calculated as though all amounts deferred under the preceding
two sentences for a calendar year had been credited to the Participant s
Account as of the first day of such year (or as of the date participation in
the Plan commences, in the case of a Participant s first year of participation
described in Section 3(b) above).  

  (b)            Notional earnings .  Not less frequently than annually, the
Administrator shall adjust each Participant s Account to reflect notional
earnings.  Notional earnings shall be
based on one Earnings Measure selected by the Participant from such Earnings
Measures as the Administrator shall specify. 
Subject to Sections 5(e)(iii) and (iv) below, the next sentence and such
other rules and regulations as the Administrator may require, the Administrator
may, but need not, permit Participants to (i) select an Earnings  

6     

Measure that
will apply to their Accounts from among those specified by the Administrator,
and (ii) change such Earnings Measure to another specified Earnings
Measure.  Notwithstanding any provision
of this Plan to the contrary, (i) a Participant may only select one Earnings
Measure to apply to his or her entire Account at any one time, and (ii) the
effective date of any change in Earnings Measure must be a prospective
January 1.  The Administrator shall
have the absolute discretion at any time to alter or amend the Earnings
Measures used in valuing and adjusting Accounts; provided, that the
Administrator may not, without the written consent of the affected Participant,
alter any Earnings Measure retroactively to the extent that the effect of such
alteration would be to reduce the balance of the Participant s Account below
what it was immediately prior to such alteration.  Nothing herein shall be construed as
obligating the Administrator or any Employer to set aside assets or establish a
trust or other fund for purposes of the Plan.  

  (c)            FICA/Medicare
taxes, etc .  To the extent any amount
deferred or credited hereunder to the Account of a Participant is treated as  wages 
for FICA/Medicare or FUTA tax purposes on a current basis rather than when
distributed, all as determined by the Administrator, then the Administrator
shall require that the Participant either (i) timely pay such taxes in cash by
separate check to the Employer, or (ii) make other arrangements satisfactory to
the Employer (e.g., additional withholding from other wage payments) for the
payment of such taxes.  To the extent a
Participant fails to pay or provide for such taxes as required, the Administrator
may suspend the Participant s participation in the Plan or reduce amounts
credited or to be credited hereunder.  

  5.              Payment of Deferred Amounts .  The Participant s Employer shall make
distributions of Account balances as provided in this Section.  All distributions shall be in cash.  

  (a)            Form and timing
of distributions; in general . 
Amounts credited to a Participant s Account for any year under Section
4(a) above (the  deferral year ), adjusted for notional earnings under Section
4(b) above, shall be paid as the Participant elects either  

  (i)            upon the expiration
of a fixed period of years, but in no event earlier than the third anniversary
of the beginning of the deferral year (a  fixed-period election ), or  

  (ii)           upon the
Participant s separation from service with the Employer within the meaning of
Section 409A of the Code (a  separation-from-service election ).  

  Any election made under this Section 5(a) shall not be
effective for any deferral year unless made prior to the beginning of the
deferral year or within 30 days of the Participant s becoming eligible to
participate in the Plan, in the case of an initial year of participation
described in Section 3(b) above, and once made shall be irrevocable.  Amounts distributable pursuant to a
fixed-period election shall be paid in a lump sum no  

7     

later than January 31 of the year specified in a
fixed-period election (a  fixed-period payment date ).  If the Participant separates from service
prior to a fixed-period payment date, the amount that would otherwise have been
payable pursuant to such fixed-period election shall instead be paid in a lump
sum as soon as reasonably practicable, but no later than 60 days following such
termination.  

  Upon making a separation-from-service election, a
Participant may elect to have amounts distributable pursuant to such election
paid either in a lump sum or in 
installments over a period of five, ten or fifteen years (a  form-of-payment
election ).  If a Participant chooses a
lump sum form of payment, such lump sum shall be paid as soon as reasonably
practicable, but no later than 60 days following such termination .  If a Consultant or an Eligible Employee
chooses an installment form of payment, installment payments shall be paid
monthly and shall commence as of the first day of the calendar year following
the date such Participant separates from service.  If a Director chooses an installment form of
payment, installment payments shall be paid quarterly and shall commence as of
the last day of the quarter in which the Director separates from service.  Notwithstanding the above, if a Participant
terminates employment prior to age 55 or with less than 10 years of service
with all Employers, all amounts distributable to such Participant under (ii)
above shall be paid in a lump sum as soon as reasonably practicable, but no
later than 60 days following such termination.  

  A Participant may change a form-of-payment election,
provided, however, that such change (i) does not take effect until at least
twelve months after the date on which the election is made, (ii) except with
respect to payments upon the death of a Participant, does not take effect
unless made on or before the date that is one year prior to the Participant s
separation from service, and (iii) except with respect to payments upon the
death of a Participant, defers for a period of not less than five years the
payment of a lump sum or the commencement of installment payments from the date
a lump sum payment would otherwise have been made or installment payments would
otherwise have commenced.  However, a
Participant may have only one form of payment election in effect at any time,
and it shall control the manner in which the entirety of the Participant s
Account distributable under (ii) above will be paid.  

  (b)            Key Employees .  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section (a)
above, any lump sum payment distributable upon the separation from service of a
Participant who is a  specified employee  within the meaning of Section 409A of
the Code shall be paid as of the date that is six months after the date of the
Participant s separation from service . 
If a Participant who is a  specified employee  within the meaning of
Section 409A of the Code has elected an installment form of payment, any
installment payments otherwise payable under the terms of the Plan during the
first six months following the date of such Participant s separation from
service shall instead be paid as of the first day of the month after the date
that is six months after the date on which such participant separated from
service.  

8     

(c)            Distributions
upon death .  Each Participant shall
designate in writing, on such form as the Administrator shall prescribe, a
beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any amounts remaining to be paid
hereunder at the Participant s death; but if no such beneficiary designation is
in effect at the time of the Participant s death, or if the Participant s
beneficiary(ies) do(es) not survive the Participant, the Administrator shall
cause any such remaining benefits to be paid to the executor or administrator
of the Participant s estate.  If death
occurs prior to the commencement or completion of installment distributions to
the Participant, the Administrator shall distribute the remaining balance of
the decedent s Account to the designated beneficiary(ies), or to the decedent s
estate where applicable, in a lump sum as soon as reasonably practicable, but
no later than 60 days, following such Participant s death.  The spouse of a married Participant who has
not consented in writing, on such form as the Administrator may prescribe, to a
designation by the Participant of one or more non-spouse beneficiary(ies) shall
be treated as the designated primary beneficiary for 50% of any portion of the
Participant s Account remaining undistributed at the Participant s death (or
such larger amount as the Participant shall have specified in his or her
beneficiary designation, if any, in effect at the time of the Participant s
death).  If application of the preceding
sentence results in the Participant s spouse being treated as the designated
primary beneficiary for any portion of the Participant s Account which would
otherwise have been distributed to others, the Administrator shall reduce the
amount payable to the other designated beneficiary(ies), if any, in such
equitable manner as it deems appropriate under the circumstances.  

  (d)            Unforeseeable
Emergency .  If a Participant suffers
an unforeseeable emergency (as defined below) prior to the payment in full of
his or her Account, the Participant may apply in writing for an extraordinary
distribution under this paragraph.  If
the Administrator in its discretion determines that an unforeseeable emergency
has occurred, the Participant s Employer will pay the Participant an amount
equal to the lesser of (i) the then balance of the Participant s Account, or (ii)
the amount determined by the Administrator to be necessary to meet the
emergency (including applicable taxes).   Unforeseeable
emergency  shall mean an unforeseeable emergency within the meaning of Section
409A of the Code and shall include (i) a severe financial hardship to the
Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the
Participant s spouse, or a dependent (as defined in Section 152(a) of the Code)
of the Participant, (ii) loss of the Participant s property due to casualty, or
(iii) other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a
result of events beyond the control of the Participant.  

  (e)            Computation of
installment payments, etc .  If any
Account is to be distributed in installments, the amount of each such
installment shall be determined by applying the following special rules:  

  (i)            If the Earnings
Measure in effect for the Account when installments begin is the Moody s Rate,
the amount of each installment shall be  

9     

determined so
as to result in equal installments over the installment period, applying the
following special rules:  (x) the
Earnings Measure used to measure notional earnings with respect to the
declining Account balance over the course of the installment period shall be a
fixed rate equal to the average of the Moody s Rate for the year in which the
installment distributions commence and the preceding four calendar years, and
(y) notional earnings shall be determined by assuming that the Account is
reduced at the beginning of each year in the installment period by the
aggregate amount of the installment payments to be made for that year.  

  (ii)           If the Earnings
Measure in effect for the Account is not the Moody s Rate, the Account balance
of the Participant shall be calculated as of the close of business on the first
business day of each fiscal quarter of the Company during the installment
period, and the quarterly installment for that quarter shall be calculated by
dividing this balance by the remaining number of quarterly payments due the Participant.  By way of example, if the Participant elects
40 quarterly installments, the first payment shall be 1/40 of the account
balance, calculated as of the first business day of the first fiscal quarter of
the Company.  The following quarter, the
payment shall be 1/39 of the account balance calculated as of the first
business day of the second fiscal quarter of the Company  

  (iii)          If the Earnings
Measure in effect for the Account when installments begin is not the Moody s
Rate, the Participant, subject to Section 4(b) above, may at any time during
the installment period change the Earnings Measure in effect for the Account to
the Moody s Rate effective as of the next January 1.  The Account balance as of such January 1
shall be paid out in equal installments over the remainder of the installment
period, with the amount of the installments determined applying the following
special rules:  (x) the Earnings Measure
used to measure notional earnings with respect to the declining Account balance
over the remainder of the installment period shall be a fixed rate equal to the
average of the Moody s Rate for the calendar year in which the equal
installment distributions commence and the preceding four calendar years, and
(y) notional earnings shall be determined by assuming that the Account is
reduced at the beginning of each year in the remainder of the installment
period by the aggregate amount of the installment payments to be made for that
year.  

  (iv)          Notwithstanding any
provisions of this Plan to the contrary, if the Earnings Measure in effect for
an Account when installments begin is the Moody s Rate, or if the Participant
changes the Earnings Measure to the Moody s Rate during the course of the
installment period in accordance with Section 5(e)(iii) above, the Participant
may not subsequently change the Earnings Measure.  

10     

(f)             Section 162(m) .  Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Plan, prior to a Change in Control (as that term is defined in the RSP as in
effect immediately prior to such a Change) the Administrator may defer payment
of any portion of a distribution hereunder to the extent permitted by Section
409A of the Code if the Administrator reasonably determines that such deferral
is necessary to avoid disallowance of a deduction under Section 162(m) of the
Code.  Amounts so deferred shall continue
to be credited with notional earnings under Section 4(b) and shall be paid on
the earlier of (i) the date Section 162(m) would no longer limit the
deductibility of such payment, as reasonably determined by the Administrator,
or (ii) the date of Change in Control (as so defined).  

  (g)            Taxes .  All distributions under the Plan shall be
subject to reduction for applicable tax withholding.  

  6.              Assignment .  Each Employer s obligations under the Plan
shall be binding upon its successors and assigns.  The rights of Participants and beneficiaries
under the Plan are not subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale,
transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, attachment, or garnishment by
creditors of such Participants and beneficiaries.  Any attempt by any person other than
Participants or their beneficiaries to bring a claim under the Plan shall be
null and void.  

  7.              Plan To Be Unfunded, Etc .  The Plan is intended to be a  pension plan 
(within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA) that is unfunded for ERISA and
tax purposes and that qualifies for the exemptions described in ERISA Sections
201(a)(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1).  The
Administrator shall be the  plan administrator  of the Plan and shall have
discretion to construe its terms and determine each Eligible Employee s or
Participant s eligibility for deferrals or distributions hereunder.  If any person claims any benefit hereunder,
the Administrator shall make and communicate its decision with respect to the
claim within 90 days from the date the claim was received.  Where special circumstances require
additional time for processing the claim, the ninety-day response period may be
extended by the Administrator to 180 days. 
If the Administrator does not render a written determination prior to
the expiration of such 90-day (or 180-day) period, the claim will be deemed
denied.  If a claim hereunder is denied,
the claimant may, within 60 days of such denial, appeal the denial by written
request for review delivered to the Board or its designate, which request may
include a request to review pertinent documents and to submit issues and
comments in writing.  The Board or its
designate shall render a decision on the appeal within 60 days (or, if special
circumstances require an extension of the time for processing, 120 days) after
receipt of the request for review; but if no written decision is rendered
within such period(s), the appeal will be deemed denied.  

  Nothing in this Section or in Section 4(b) shall be
construed as prohibiting the Employer from establishing and maintaining a  rabbi
trust  or similar trust or account in connection with the Plan, so long as the
maintenance and funding of such a trust or account does not jeopardize the
unfunded status of the Plan under ERISA or effective tax deferral under the
Code.  

11     

8.              No Contract of Employment .  By participating in the Plan, each
Participant expressly acknowledges and agrees that (i) nothing in the Plan or
in its operation, including deferrals hereunder, limits the right of the
Company or any other Employer to terminate the employment or other services of
the Participant at any time, with or without cause, and that (ii) neither he or
she, nor his or her beneficiaries, will claim lost compensation or tax benefits
associated with discontinuance of participation in the Plan as damages or as a
measure of damages in connection with any termination of employment or other
services.  

  9.              Amendment and Termination .  The Board may terminate the Plan at any time
and may amend the Plan at any time and from time to time, including amendments
with retroactive effect;  provided ,
that no such action shall, without the consent of the affected Participant,
reduce the balance of any Participant s Account below what it was immediately
prior to the taking of such action;  and
further provided , that upon and following a Change in Control (as
defined in RSP as in effect immediately prior to such a Change), no amendment
shall result in the further deferral of payments that have been delayed by
reason of the operation of Section 5(f) above. 
If it determines such action to be necessary to preserve or reinstate
the Plan s status as a  top hat  plan under Sections 201(a)(2), 301(a)(3) or
401(a)(1) of ERISA, or to ensure effective tax deferral under the Plan, the
Administrator may at any time exclude any individual from Participation in the
Plan or may make such changes in the deferral or distribution rules hereunder
as are reasonably determined by the Administrator to be necessary to accomplish
such result or results, provided, however, that such changes must be consistent
with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.  Upon termination of the Plan in general or as
to any Participant or group of Participants, the Administrator may, but need
not, to the extent consistent with Section 409A of the Code, provide for
immediate distribution of Accounts to the affected Participants.  

  10.            Section 409A .  With respect to amounts deferred by a
Participant for services in calendar year 2005 and in subsequent years,
including all income, gains and losses credited or charged with respect
thereto, the Plan is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A
of the Code and shall be construed accordingly. 
With respect to amounts deferred (within the meaning of Section 409A) by
a Participant on or before December 31, 2004 (including all income, gains and
losses credited or charged with respect thereto) the Plan is intended to be
grandfathered for purposes of Section 409A and therefore exempt from Section 409A.  

  11.            Limitation of Liability .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
the Plan, no Employer, nor the Administrator, nor any person acting on behalf
of any Employer or the Administrator, shall be liable to any Participant or to
the estate or beneficiary of any Participant by reason of any acceleration of
income, or any additional tax, asserted by reason of the failure of any
deferral to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.  

  12.            Administration of the Plan .  The Administrator shall have full power to
interpret and administer the Plan and determine the eligibility of any person
for benefits hereunder and the amount of any such benefit, in its
discretion.  Without limiting the
foregoing, the Administrator shall have full discretionary power and authority,
not inconsistent with the express provisions of the Plan, to select those
individuals who may participate in the Plan; to determine their  

12     

remuneration eligible for
deferral under the Plan; to determine their eligibility to commence receipt of
benefits and the form of benefits (including, without limitation, any
determination as to the proper treatment of leaves of absence and other periods
of service to the Employer); to adopt, alter, and repeal such rules, guidelines
and procedures for administration of the Plan and for its own acts and
proceedings as it shall deem advisable; to prescribe the form of any election
under the Plan; and otherwise to supervise the administration of the Plan.  

  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has signed this Plan
Document as of the 8th day of September, 2006.  

By: 

/s/ Robby D. Sisco  

Its:  

Vice President for Human Resources  

13     

Appendix A  

   Employers Participating in the Plan     

  Cabot Corporation  

  Cabot Specialty Fluids,
Inc.  

14  

</EX-10.(D)(VIII)>

<EX-10.(F)>
 3
 a06-25226_1ex10df.htm
 EX-10

EXHIBIT 10(f)   

   Cabot
Corporation   

   Compensation
for Non-Employee Directors   

  On January 13, 2006, the
Board of Directors of Cabot Corporation ( Cabot ) approved the compensation
outlined below for Cabot s non-employee directors, effective January 1, 2006.  There have not been any changes in these
arrangements since that time.  

                                                 An annual retainer of $31,000 for each
non-employee director.  

                                                 An annual retainer of $21,000 for serving
on the Audit Committee.  

                                                 An annual retainer of $7,000 for serving
on each of the Compensation, Safety Health   Environmental Affairs, or
Governance and Nominating Committees.  

                                                 An annual retainer of $30,000 for serving
as lead director.  

                                                 An annual retainer of $40,000 for serving
as Chair of the Audit Committee.  

                                                 An annual retainer of $10,000 for serving
as Chair of the Compensation, Safety Health   Environmental Affairs, or
Governance and Nominating Committees.  

  The standard compensation
arrangements for non-employee directors also have included an annual grant of
shares of Cabot common stock.  On March
9, 2006, Cabot s stockholders approved a new Non-Employee Directors  Stock
Compensation Plan.  The Plan provides for
each of Cabot s non-employee directors to receive a grant of 2,500 shares of
Cabot common stock with respect to compensation for calendar year 2006.  For any given calendar year thereafter, the
Governance and Nominating Committee has the authority, in its sole discretion,
to increase or decrease the number of shares of Cabot common stock issuable to
non-employee directors. Cabot s Corporate Governance Guidelines require
non-employee directors to have equity ownership in Cabot in the range of three
times their annual cash retainers.  It is
expected that this ownership interest will generally be achieved within a three-to-five
year period beginning when a director is first elected to the Board.  In addition, where equity-based compensation
is a component of compensation, each non-employee director is required to
retain the shares granted in any given year for a period of three years from
the date of issuance or until the director s earlier retirement.  

  Directors also are
reimbursed for travel expenses incurred for attending Board and Committee
meetings and are covered by Cabot s travel accident insurance policy for such
travel.  

</EX-10.(F)>

<EX-12>
 4
 a06-25226_1ex12.htm
 EX-12

EXHIBIT
12   

  CABOT CORPORATION
AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES  

  STATEMENT REGARDING
COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS (LOSS) TO FIXED 
CHARGES 
(Amounts in millions, except ratios)  

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 5
 a06-25226_1ex21.htm
 EX-21

EXHIBIT 21   

   Subsidiaries
of Cabot Corporation   

Subsidiary   

State/Jurisdiction of Incorporation   

Cabot Argentina S.A.I.C.  

Argentina  

Cabot Specialty Fluids S.A.  

Argentina  

Cabot Australasia Pty. Ltd.  

Australia  

Cabot Australasia Investments Pty. Ltd.  

Australia  

Cabot Plastics Belgium S.A.  

Belgium  

Specialty Chemicals Coordination Center, S.A.  

Belgium  

Cabot (Bermuda) Ltd.  

Bermuda  

Cabot Brasil
  Industria e Com rcio Ltda.  

Brazil  

Tantalum Mining Corp. of Canada Ltd.  

Manitoba, Canada  

Coltan Mines Limited  

Manitoba, Canada  

Cabot Finance N.B. LP  

New Brunswick, Canada  

Cabot Canada Ltd.  

Ontario, Canada  

Cabot Plastics Hong Kong Limited  

China  

Shanghai Cabot Chemical Company Ltd.  

China  

Cabot Trading (Shanghai) Company Ltd.  

China  

Cabot (China) Limited  

China  

Cabot Bluestar Chemical (Jiangxi) Co., Ltd.  

China  

Cabot Chemical (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.  

China  

Cabot Performance Products (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.  

China  

Cabot Colombiana S.A.  

Colombia  

CS Cabot spol, s.r.o.  

Czech Republic  

Cabot France S.A.S.  

France  

United Chemical France S.A.S.  

France  

Cabot Europa, G.I.E.  

France  

Cabot GmbH  

Germany  

Cabot Holdings I GmbH  

Germany  

Cabot Holdings II GmbH  

Germany  

Cabot Nanogel GmbH  

Germany  

Cabot India Limited  

India  

P.T. Cabot Indonesia  

Indonesia  

Cabot Italiana S.p.A.  

Italy  

Aizu Holdings K.K.  

Japan  

Cabot Japan K.K.  

Japan  

Cabot Supermetals K.K.  

Japan  

Cabot Korea Y.H.  

Korea  

Cabot Luxembourg Holdings S.a.r.l.  

Luxembourg  

Cabot Luxembourg Investments S.a.r.l.  

Luxembourg  

Cabot Luxembourg
  Finance S.a.r.l.  

Luxembourg  

Cabot Elastomer Composites Sdn Bhd.  

Malaysia  

Cabot Materials Research Sdn Bhd.  

Malaysia  

CMHC, Inc.  

Mauritius  

Cabot S.A.  

Spain  

Cabot International GmbH  

Switzerland  

Cabot B.V.  

The Netherlands  

1     

Subsidiary   

State/Jurisdiction of Incorporation   

Cabot Finance B.V.  

The Netherlands  

Black Rose Investments Limited  

British Virgin Islands  

Drag n Verde Investments Limited  

British Virgin Islands  

AHB Investments Limited  

British Virgin Islands  

HDF Investments Limited  

British Virgin Islands  

Ramaai Holdings Limited  

British Virgin Islands  

Botsel Limited  

United Kingdom (England)  

Cabot Carbon Limited  

United Kingdom (England)  

Cabot G.B. Limited  

United Kingdom (England)  

Cabot Plastics Limited  

United Kingdom (England)  

Cabot U.K. Limited  

United Kingdom (England)  

Cabot UK Holdings Limited  

United Kingdom (England)  

Cabot UK Holdings II Limited  

United Kingdom (England)  

Cabot UK Holdings III Limited  

United Kingdom (England)  

Cabot Specialty Fluids Limited  

United Kingdom (Scotland)  

Cabot Specialty Fluids North Sea Limited  

United Kingdom (Scotland)  

BCB Company  

Delaware, United States  

Cabot Asia Investment Corporation  

Delaware, United States  

Cabot Ceramics, Inc.  

Delaware, United States  

Cabot Corporation Foundation, Inc.  

Massachusetts, United States  

Cabot CSC Corporation  

Delaware, United States  

Cabot Europe Limited  

Delaware, United States  

Cabot Holding LLC  

Delaware, United States  

Cabot Insurance Co. Ltd. (Vermont)  

Vermont, United States  

Cabot International Limited  

Delaware, United States  

Cabot International Capital Corporation  

Delaware, United States  

Cabot International Services Corporation  

Massachusetts, United States  

Cabot Specialty Chemicals, Inc.  

Delaware, United States  

Cabot Specialty Fluids, Inc.  

Delaware, United States  

CDE Company  

Delaware, United States  

Energy Transport Limited  

Delaware, United States  

Cabot US Finance LLC  

Delaware, United States  

Cabot US Investments LLC  

Delaware, United States  

Kawecki Chemicals, Inc.  

Delaware, United States  

Representaciones 1, 2 y 3 C.A.  

Venezuela  

Valores Ramaai C.A.  

Venezuela  

2  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 6
 a06-25226_1ex23.htm
 EX-23

EXHIBIT
23   

   CONSENT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  We hereby consent to the
incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3
(No. 333-64787) and on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-03683, 333-19103,
333-19099, 333-82353, 333-96879, 333-96881, 333-136484,
333-134134 and 333-134133) of Cabot Corporation of our report dated
December 14, 2006 relating to the financial statements, management s
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which
appears in this Form 10-K.  

  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP  

  Boston, Massachusetts 
December 14, 2006  

</EX-23>

<EX-31.I>
 7
 a06-25226_1ex31di.htm
 EX-31

EXHIBIT 31(i)     

   Principal Executive
Officer Certification     

  I, Kennett F. Burnes, certify that:  

  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K
of Cabot Corporation;  

  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain
any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were   made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements,
and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

  4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and
I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))
and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  

  a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures,
or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;  

  b) designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;  

  c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

  d) disclosed in this report any change in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and  

  5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and
I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):  

  a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses
in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which
are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and  

  b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: December 14, 2006 

/s/ Kennett F. Burnes  

Kennett F. Burnes  

Chairman of the Board, President  

and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.I>

<EX-31.II>
 8
 a06-25226_1ex31dii.htm
 EX-31

EXHIBIT 31  (ii)   

   Principal Financial
Officer Certification     

  I, Jonathan P. Mason certify that:  

  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K
of Cabot Corporation;  

  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain
any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were   made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements,
and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

  4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and
I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))
and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  

  a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures,
or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;  

  b) designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;  

  c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

  d) disclosed in this report any change in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and  

  5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and
I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):  

  a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses
in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which
are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and  

  b) any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.  

Date: December 14, 2006 

/s/ Jonathan P. Mason  

Jonathan P. Mason  

Executive Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.II>

<EX-32>
 9
 a06-25226_1ex32.htm
 EX-32

EXHIBIT 32     

   Certifications
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,   
as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

  In connection with
the filing of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30,
2006 (the  Report ) by Cabot Corporation (the  Company ), each of the
undersigned hereby certifies pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

  1.                   The Report fully
complies with the requirements of section 13 (a) or 15 (d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 

  2.                   The information
contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ Kennett F. Burnes  

Kennett F. Burnes  

Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
  Officer  

December 14, 2006  

/s/ Jonathan P. Mason  

Jonathan P. Mason  

Executive Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

December 14, 2006  

</EX-32>

