<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061227_10-K_edgar_data_106618_0000921895-06-002609_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1343839</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1308098</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3794</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>0</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>19</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000921895-06-002609.hdr.sgml : 20070126
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061227171510
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000921895-06-002609
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		20
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20070125

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WHX CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000106618
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COATING, ENGRAVING & ALLIED SERVICES [3470]
		IRS NUMBER:				133768097
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02394
		FILM NUMBER:		061301224

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		555 THEODORE FREMD AVENUE
		CITY:			RYE
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10580
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9149254413

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		555 THEODORE FREMD AVENUE
		CITY:			RYE
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10580

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	WHEELING PITTSBURGH CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	WHEELING PITTSBURGH STEEL CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19910130

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	WHEELING STEEL CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19690202

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 JY/O7mskVPjPqhmoI21X8B0MLNDvnKDYEmj9NVHqroRxKL3MdeEzxYb6zy4I045+
 /n3RIKG07yeJx1ssyODnlw==

 0000921895-06-002609.txt : 20070126

10-K
 1
 form10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                                  ANNUAL REPORT
                        PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(D)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

|X|   ANNUAL REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
      ACT OF 1934

      For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005

                                       OR

|_|   TRANSITION REPORT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
      1934

      For the transition period from __________ to __________

Commission file number 1-2394

                                 WHX CORPORATION
             ------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

           DELAWARE                                          13-3768097
- -------------------------------                           ----------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                           (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                           Identification No.)

        555 THEODORE FREMD AVENUE
              RYE, NEW YORK                                     10580
- ----------------------------------------                     ----------
(Address of principal executive offices)                     (Zip code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 914-925-4413

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                                        Name of each exchange on
           Title of each class                             which registered
           -------------------                             ----------------
Common Stock, $.01 par value

      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act: None

      Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known  seasoned issuer,
as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes |_| No |X|

      Indicate by check mark if the  Registrant  is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes |_| No |X|

      Indicate by check mark whether the  registrant:  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes |_| No |X|

      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. |X|

      Indicate  by check mark  whether  the  Registrant  is a large  accelerated
filer,  an accelerated  filer,  or a  non-accelerated  filer.  See definition of
"accelerated  filer and large  accelerated  filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act.  (Check  one):   Large   accelerated   filer  |_|  Accelerated   filer  |_|
Non-accelerated filer |X|

      Indicate  by check mark  whether  the  registrant  is a shell  company (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Yes |_| No |X|

      The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held
by  non-affiliates  of registrant as of November 30, 2006 totaled  approximately
$46.5 million based on the then-closing stock price.

      Indicate by check mark whether the  registrant has filed all documents and
reports  required  to be  filed by  Section  12,  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 subsequent to the  distribution of securities  under a plan
confirmed by a court. Yes |_| No |X|

      On November 30, 2006, there were approximately 10,000,000 shares of common
stock, par value $0.01 per share.

1

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 ITEM                                                                       PAGE

PART I

Item 1.    Business                                                            3
Item 1A.   Risk Factors                                                        6
Item 1B.   Unresolved Staff Comments                                          10
Item 2.    Properties                                                         10
Item 3.    Legal Proceedings                                                  10
Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders                14

PART II

Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Matters          14
Item 6.    Selected Financial Data                                            16
Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
             and Results of Operations                                        20
Item 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk         41
Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                        43
Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
             and Financial Disclosure                                         93
Item 9A.   Controls and Procedures                                            93

PART III

Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Company                    96
Item 11.   Executive Compensation                                            100
Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management    104
Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                    105
Item 14.   Principal Accountant Fees and Services                            106

PART IV

Item 15.   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules                        107

2

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

VOLUNTARY  PETITION  UNDER  CHAPTER 11 OF U.S.  BANKRUPTCY  CODE AND  SUBSEQUENT
EVENTS

      On March 7, 2005, WHX  Corporation,  the parent company  ("WHX"),  filed a
voluntary petition  ("Bankruptcy  Filing") to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the
United States  Bankruptcy Code with the United States  Bankruptcy  Court for the
Southern District of New York (the "Bankruptcy Court"). WHX continued to operate
its businesses and own and manage its properties as a debtor-in-possession  (the
"Debtor") under the  jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court and in accordance with
the  applicable  provisions  of  the  Bankruptcy  Code  until  it  emerged  from
protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on July 29, 2005 (see below).

      WHX's primary business is Handy   Harman (together with its  subsidiaries,
"H H"), a diversified manufacturing company. Neither H H, nor any of WHX's other
subsidiaries  or affiliates  were included in WHX's  Bankruptcy  Filing.  All of
H H's  operating  units  conducted  business in the ordinary  course  during the
bankruptcy. WHX's Bankruptcy Filing was primarily intended to reduce WHX's debt,
simplify its capital  structure,  reduce its overall cost of capital and provide
it with better access to capital markets.

      On March 7, 2005, WHX also filed a proposed Plan of  Reorganization of WHX
Corporation (as amended, the "Plan") and a related proposed disclosure statement
(as amended,  the "Disclosure  Statement") with the Bankruptcy Court. On June 7,
2005,  WHX filed its first amended  Chapter 11 Plan. On June 8, 2005,  WHX filed
its second amended Disclosure Statement.

      On July 21, 2005, WHX Corporation's  Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization was
confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court (the  "Confirmation  Order").  The Plan became
effective on July 29, 2005 ("Effective Date").

      The  Bankruptcy  Filing  created an event of default  under the  Indenture
governing  WHX's 10 1/2% Senior Notes (the  "Senior  Notes") due April 15, 2005.
Under the terms of the Senior Notes, as a result of the Bankruptcy  Filing,  the
entire unpaid principal and accrued interest (and any other additional  amounts)
became immediately due and payable without any action on the part of the trustee
or the note holders.  The principal amount outstanding under the Senior Notes at
March 7, 2005 was approximately $92.8 million. Accrued interest to March 7, 2005
was approximately $3.8 million.

      The  following is a summary of certain  material  features of the Plan and
the Confirmation Order. On the Effective Date:

o     All of WHX's outstanding securities, including WHX's pre-bankruptcy filing
      common stock,  Series A preferred  stock,  Series B preferred stock and 10
      1/2% Senior Notes were deemed  cancelled and annulled  without further act
      or action.

o     In full and complete satisfaction of all such claims,  holders of WHX's 10
      1/2% Senior Notes received  9,200,000 shares of common stock  representing
      their prorated share of the reorganized  company.  These shares  represent
      92% of the equity in the reorganized company.

o     In  full  and  complete  satisfaction  of all  such  interests,  Series  A
      preferred   stockholders   received   366,322   shares  of  common   stock
      representing  their prorated share of the reorganized  company and 344,658
      warrants to purchase common stock of the reorganized company,  exercisable
      at $11.20 per share and expiring on February 28, 2008.

o     In  full  and  complete  satisfaction  of all  such  interests,  Series  B
      preferred   stockholders   received   433,678   shares  of  common   stock
      representing  their prorated share of the reorganized  company and 408,030
      warrants to purchase common stock of the reorganized company,  exercisable
      at $11.20 per share and expiring on February 28, 2008.

o     Holders  of  WHX's   pre-bankruptcy   filing  common  stock   received  no
      distribution under the Plan.

      The  common  stock  received  by  the  Series  A and  Series  B  preferred
stockholders,  collectively,  represents  8% of the  equity  in the  reorganized
company.   The  warrants   issued  to  the  Series  A  and  Series  B  preferred
stockholders,  collectively, represent the right to purchase an additional 7% of
the equity of the reorganized company after giving effect to the exercise of the
warrants.

      On the  Effective  Date,  all of the  assets  of WHX  were  vested  in the
reorganized  company  free and clear of all liens,  causes of  actions,  claims,
encumbrances,  equity interests,  and interests against,  in, or on such assets,
except as explicitly provided in the Plan.

      Since the  Effective  Date,  the business  units of H H have  continued to
conduct their businesses in the ordinary course.

3

OVERVIEW

WHX CORPORATION

      WHX is a holding  company that  invests in and manages a diverse  group of
businesses.  WHX's primary business is H H, a diversified  manufacturing company
whose  strategic  business units  encompass  three  segments:  precious  metals,
tubing,  and engineered  materials.  H H is essentially a holding  company which
owns distinct operating  companies within its corporate  structure.  WHX's other
business  through August 1, 2003, (see below)  consisted of  Wheeling-Pittsburgh
Corporation  ("WPC") and six of its subsidiaries  including  Wheeling-Pittsburgh
Steel Corporation ("WPSC"), a vertically integrated  manufacturer of value-added
and  flat  rolled  steel  products  (see  Note 4 to the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements).  WPSC,  together  with  WPC and its  other  subsidiaries  shall  be
referred  to  herein  as  the  "WPC  Group."  WHX,  together  with  all  of  its
subsidiaries  other  than the WPC  Group,  shall be  referred  to  herein as the
"Company".

      On November  16,  2000,  the WPC Group filed  petitions  for relief  under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the United States  Bankruptcy Court for the
Northern  District of Ohio.  Subsequent to the  commencement  of the  Bankruptcy
Filing,  the WPC Group sought and obtained  several  orders from the  Bankruptcy
Court  that  enabled  the  WPC  Group  to  continue   business   operations   as
debtors-in-possession.  The WPC Plan of Reorganization ("WPC POR") was confirmed
by the Bankruptcy  Court on June 18, 2003 and was consummated on August 1, 2003.
Pursuant to the terms of the WPC POR,  among other things,  the WPC Group ceased
to be a subsidiary of WHX effective  August 1, 2003,  and from that date forward
has been an independent company.

      As a result of the WPC Group Bankruptcy Filing the Company, as of November
16, 2000, no longer  consolidates  WPC with WHX.  Accordingly,  the accompanying
consolidated  statements of operations and the  consolidated  statements of cash
flows  exclude the operating  results of WPC for the periods after  November 16,
2000.

      For additional  information  concerning these  developments,  see Item 3 -
Legal  Proceedings,  and  Item  7 -  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of
Financial  Condition  and Results of Operations  and Note 4 to the  Consolidated
Financial Statements.

                                   THE COMPANY

      WHX  acquired  H H in April  1998.  H H's  business  segments  are the (a)
manufacturing  and selling of tubing products  fabricated from stainless  steel,
carbon steel and specialty  alloys;  (b)  manufacturing  and selling of precious
metal brazing products and precision  electroplated materials and stamped parts;
and (c) manufacturing and selling of other engineered  materials supplied to the
roofing,  construction,  natural  gas,  electric,  and water  industries.  H H's
products  are sold to  industrial  users in a wide range of  applications  which
include the construction,  electric, electronic,  automotive original equipment,
computer equipment, oil, refrigeration, utility, telecommunications, medical and
energy related industries.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

      The Company's business strategy is to enhance the growth and profitability
of H H and to build upon the  strengths of certain of H H's  businesses  through
internal growth and strategic acquisitions.

      H H expects to continue to focus on high margin  products  and  innovative
technology,  while  limiting  its  exposure  to  low  margin,  capital-intensive
businesses.  As part of that  strategy,  in 2006 H H  announced  its decision to
close the  Norristown  Pa.  facility  of Handy   Harman Tube Co. and in 2005 H H
announced its decision to permanently close its wire and cable operations due to
continuing operating losses, deteriorating margins and rising raw material costs
experienced  by these  businesses.  In 2002,  H H exited certain of its precious
metal activities that had been part of its historical  business base. In the mid
1990s,  H H exited its  commodity  automotive  OEM and precious  metal  refining
businesses, and with its strong brand name and customer recognition, expanded in
specialty  metals and materials  product  markets.  H H focuses on its materials
engineering expertise to expand production of higher value-added  products.  H H
from time to time continues to evaluate the sale of non-core  assets and certain
underperforming businesses, as well as strategic acquisitions. WHX has provided,
and may  provide  from time to time in the  future,  information  to  interested
parties  regarding  portions  of its  non-core  assets and  businesses  for such
purposes.

PRODUCTS AND PRODUCT MIX

      TUBING SEGMENT

      H H manufactures a wide variety of steel tubing  products.  Small-diameter
precision-drawn  tubing fabricated from stainless steel, nickel alloy and carbon
and alloy steel is produced in many sizes and shapes to critical  specifications
for use in the semiconductor,

4

aircraft,    petrochemical,    automotive,    appliance,    refrigeration    and
instrumentation  industries.  Additionally,  tubular product is manufactured for
the medical industry for use as implants, surgical devices and instrumentation.

      PRECIOUS METALS SEGMENT

      H H's  precious  metals  activities  include the  fabrication  of precious
metals and their  alloys into  brazing  alloys and the  utilization  of precious
metals in precision  electroplating.  H H's profits from precious metal products
are derived from the "value added" of processing  and  fabricating  and not from
the purchase and resale of precious metals.  In accordance with general practice
in the  industry,  prices to customers  are a composite of two factors:  (1) the
value of the  precious  metal  content of the product  and (2) the  "fabrication
value", which includes the cost of base metals, labor,  overhead,  financing and
profit.  Fabricated  precious metal brazing  alloys are used in many  industries
including   automotive,   air   conditioning,   general   industrial  and  other
metal-joining industries.

      H H produces  precision-stamped,  electroplated  and molded  materials and
stamped  parts (often using gold,  silver,  palladium and various base metals on
such   materials   and   stamped   parts)   for   use  in   the   semiconductor,
telecommunications, automotive, electronics and computer industries.

      ENGINEERED MATERIALS SEGMENT

      H H manufactures fasteners,  fastening systems, plastic and steel fittings
and connectors,  non-ferrous  thermite welding powders,  and electro  galvanized
products for the roofing, construction, appliance, do-it-yourself,  natural gas,
electric and water distribution industries.

CUSTOMERS

      H H is diversified across both industrial markets and customers. H H sells
to the electronics, telecommunications, semiconductor, computer, aerospace, home
appliance  OEM,   automotive,   construction,   utility,   medical  and  general
manufacturing  industries. In 2004, one customer within our engineered materials
segment  accounted  for 7.1% of H H's  sales  while in years  2005 and 2003,  no
customers accounted for more than 5% of H H's sales.

RAW MATERIALS

      The raw materials  used by H H in its precious  metal  operations  consist
principally of silver,  gold, copper,  zinc, nickel, tin, and the platinum group
metals in various forms. H H purchases its precious metals at free market prices
from  primary  producers or bullion  dealers.  The prices of silver,  gold,  and
palladium  are  subject to  fluctuations  and are  expected  to  continue  to be
affected by world market  conditions.  Nonetheless,  H H has not experienced any
problem in obtaining  the  necessary  quantities  of raw  materials  and, in the
normal  course of business,  receives  precious  metals from  suppliers.  To the
extent that supplier or customer metals are used by H H, the amount of inventory
which H H must own is reduced.  All  precious  metal raw  materials  are readily
available from several sources. Precious metals are purchased at the same prices
and quantities as selling commitments to customers.

      The raw materials used by H H in its non-precious metal operations consist
principally of stainless, galvanized, and carbon steel, nickel alloys, a variety
of high-performance alloys, and various plastic compositions.  H H purchases all
such raw materials at open market  prices from  domestic and foreign  suppliers.
H H has not experienced any problem in obtaining the necessary quantities of raw
materials. Prices and availability, particularly of raw materials purchased from
foreign  suppliers,  are  affected by world  market  conditions  and  government
policies.

BACKLOG

      H H has no material backlog.

CAPITAL INVESTMENTS

      The Company believes that H H's business segments must continuously strive
to improve productivity and product quality, and control manufacturing costs, in
order to remain competitive.  Accordingly, H H's business segments are committed
to making necessary capital  investments with the objectives of reducing overall
manufacturing  costs,  improving the quality of products produced and broadening
the array of products  offered to H H's several  markets  served.  H H's capital
expenditures   for  2005  for   continuing   operations   were  $20.4   million.
Approximately $10.0 million of the 2005 expenditures relate to a plant expansion
at H H's fastener  facility in Agawam,  MA. The level of capital  expenditure in
2005 and prior were needed to expand and maintain productive  capacity,  improve
productivity  and upgrade selected  facilities to meet competitive  requirements
and maintain compliance with environmental laws and regulations. H H anticipates
funding its capital  expenditures in 2006, including the costs of establishing a
carbon tubing facility for the refrigeration  and automotive  markets in Mexico,
from cash on hand; funds generated by operations and

5

borrowed  funds.  H H  anticipates  its capital  expenditures  will  approximate
depreciation,  on  average,  over the next few  years.  Other  than at H H,  the
Company  did not make any  material  capital  expenditures  in 2005 and does not
anticipate any in 2006.

ENERGY REQUIREMENTS

      H H requires significant amounts of electricity and natural gas to operate
its facilities and is subject to price changes in these commodities.  A shortage
of electricity or natural gas, or a government  allocation of supplies resulting
in a general reduction in supplies, could increase costs of production and could
cause some curtailment of production.

EMPLOYMENT

      Total active  employment  of the Company at December  31, 2005  aggregated
1,640  employees.  Of these  employees,  519 were salaried  employees,  481 were
covered by collective  bargaining  agreements and 640 were  non-union  operating
employees.

COMPETITION

      There are many  companies,  both domestic and foreign,  which  manufacture
steel wire and tubing products,  and other specially  engineered products of the
type H H  manufactures.  There are also a number of  competitors  in each of the
classes of precious metal products we sell. Some of these competitors are larger
than we are and  have  financial  resources  greater  than we do.  Some of these
competitors enjoy certain other competitive  advantages,  including greater name
recognition;  greater  financial,  technical,  marketing and other resources;  a
larger  installed base of customers;  and  well-established  relationships  with
current and potential  customers.  Competition is based on quality,  technology,
service,  and price and in some industries,  new product  introduction,  each of
which is of equal importance.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

      This Report includes  "forward-looking  statements"  within the meaning of
Section 27A of the  Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the  "Securities  Act"),
and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, including,  in particular,  forward-looking
statements under the headings "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8. Financial Statements
and  Supplementary  Data." These statements appear in a number of places in this
Report  and  include  statements  regarding  WHX's  intent,  belief  or  current
expectations  with respect to (i) its financing plans, (ii) trends affecting its
financial  condition  or  results  of  operations,   and  (iii)  the  impact  of
competition.  The words "expect,"  "anticipate,"  "intend,"  "plan,"  "believe,"
"seek,"  "estimate,"  and similar  expressions  are  intended  to identify  such
forward-looking   statements;   however,   this  Report  also   contains   other
forward-looking statements in addition to historical information.

      Any  forward-looking  statements  made by WHX are not guarantees of future
performance  and there are various  important  factors  that could cause  actual
results  to  differ  materially  from  those  indicated  in the  forward-looking
statements. This means that indicated results may not be realized.

      Factors  that  could  cause the actual  results  of the  Company in future
periods to differ materially include, but are not limited to, the following:

RISKS RELATING TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RECENTLY COMPLETED REORGANIZATION

      THERE IS  SUBSTANTIAL  DOUBT AS TO THE COMPANY'S  ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A
GOING CONCERN.

      The  accompanying  financial  statements  have been prepared  assuming the
Company will  continue as a going  concern.  The Company  incurred net losses of
$34.7  million,  $140.4  million and $159.9 million for the years ended December
31,  2005,  2004  and  2003,  respectively  and had  negative  cash  flows  from
operations  of $5.0 million and $39.6  million for the years ended  December 31,
2005  and 2004  respectively.  As of  December  31,  2005,  the  Company  had an
accumulated  deficit of $394.0 million and a working  capital  deficit of $122.1
million as of December 31, 2005 and $172.7 million as of December 31, 2004. With
the exception of $4.9 million of Other H H debt, all debt has been classified as
current due to noncompliance with certain debt covenants.

      In March 2005, WHX filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the
United States Bankruptcy Code. Following WHX's emergence from bankruptcy in July
2005, the Company  continued to experience  liquidity  issues.  WHX is a holding
company and has as its sole source of cash flow distributions from its operating
subsidiary,  H H, or other discrete  transactions.  H H's bank credit facilities
and term loan  effectively do not permit it to transfer any cash or other assets
to WHX and are  collateralized by substantially all of H H's assets.  WHX has no
bank credit facility of its own. WHX's operating cash flow requirements  consist
of funding  the  supplemental  retirement  plan,  certain  employee-related  and
administrative costs and the

6

bankruptcy-related  expenses,  all of which were paid by March 31,  2006.  On an
ongoing basis, the Company is required to meet the funding  requirements for the
WHX Pension Plan and pay other administrative costs.

      Since  emerging from  bankruptcy,  due to covenant  restrictions  in H H's
credit  facilities,  there  have  been no  dividends  from H H to WHX and  WHX's
sources of cash flow have consisted of:

      o     The issuance of $5.1 million in preferred stock by a newly created
            subsidiary, which was invested in the equity of a small public
            company; and

      o     Partial payment of the H H subordinated debt to WHX of $9.0 million,
            which required the approval of the banks participating in the bank
            facility. Subsequent to this transaction in 2006, the remaining
            intercompany loan balance of the subordinated debt of $44.2 million
            was converted to equity.

      As of September 30, 2006, WHX had cash of  approximately  $1.6 million and
current  liabilities of  approximately  $6.9 million,  including $5.1 million of
mandatorily  redeemable preferred shares issued by a wholly-owned  subsidiary of
WHX and  payable to a related  party.  WHX also has  significant  2006 cash flow
obligations,  including without  limitation the minimum funding  requirement for
the WHX Pension  Plan,  which is estimated to be $20.6 million ($4.9 million was
paid in July  2006  and  $5.0  million  was  paid by H H in  October  2006)  and
estimated other administrative costs for 2006 of approximately $3.8 million. The
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") filed a lien against the assets of
H H to secure,  among other things, the funding deficiency  existing as a result
of WHX's failure to make required  contributions to the WHX Pension Plan, and on
October 20,  2006,  the PBGC entered into a lien  subordination  agreement  with
H H's revolving credit facility lender.  This  subordination  agreement provides
that the  subordination  provisions  shall not apply to any debt incurred  after
December 31, 2006. As previously indicated, there are no current sources of cash
available  to WHX to  satisfy  these  obligations,  other  than  the sale of its
subsidiary's equity investment  (estimated market value at September 30, 2006 of
$5.0 million),  possible insurance proceeds from current litigation, or the sale
of H H (which is not currently contemplated).  If WHX does not obtain additional
liquidity,  it is likely that WHX will not have  sufficient  cash to continue to
operate through the end of 2007.

      As of September 30, 2006,  H H's  availability  under its revolving credit
facility  was  $11.7  million;   however,  based  on  the  Company's  forecasted
borrowings,  these  available  funds may not be  sufficient to fund debt service
costs,  working  capital  demands  (especially in light of recent high commodity
prices,  primarily silver and gold), and environmental  remediation  costs. From
January 1, 2006  through  September  30,  2006,  H H spent  approximately  $12.2
million for the remediation of environmental  conditions at the site of a former
manufacturing  facility  which it had  previously  sold.  H H  expects  to spend
approximately   an  additional  $8.8  million  through  2007  to  complete  this
remediation.  In  addition,  H H may owe the buyer of the  property a penalty of
approximately  $3.8 million,  based on an estimated  completion date in February
2007,  which will increase if the  remediation is not completed by this date. An
arbitration  award,  which was  upheld by a court and is  currently  on  appeal,
concluded  that  H H will be  obligated  to pay this  penalty.  However,  H H is
awaiting a judicial  decision  as to the  enforceability  of this  penalty.  The
amount of availability  provided by H H's revolving credit facility limits H H's
borrowing  ability and is anticipated to continue to limit H H's liquidity until
it can refinance  this facility.  Additionally,  this credit  facility  contains
various financial covenants,  including minimum EBITDA, as defined, fixed charge
coverage  ratio and  limitations  on  capital  expenditures.  The  Company is in
violation of certain of these  covenants.  The facility  also  includes  certain
financial  reporting  requirements,  which the  Company has been unable to meet.
Historically, H H has been able to obtain amendments to financial covenants when
future  results  were not expected to comply with these  covenants.  H H has not
obtained an amendment for these  covenant  violations,  and, as a result,  is in
default of the  facility.  Accordingly,  the  Company  has  classified  all debt
subject to these covenants as current liabilities in these financial statements.
H H and its bank group have  amended  its  facility  as of October  30,  2006 to
provide,  among other  things,  an  additional  $7.0  million term loan upon the
filing of its 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K,  and an immediate $3.0 million of
borrowing  availability  under its revolving  credit  facility.  H H's revolving
credit facility  matures on March 31, 2007.  There can be no assurance that this
amendment  will  provide H H with the  liquidity  it  requires,  that current or
future  covenant  violations  will be waived by the banks,  or that  replacement
financing will be obtained upon commercially reasonable terms, if at all.

      The above conditions raise  substantial  doubt about the Company's ability
to continue as a going concern.  These  financial  statements do not include any
adjustments  to reflect the possible  future effects on the  recoverability  and
classification  of assets or amounts and  classification of liabilities that may
result from the outcome of this uncertainty.  See Item 7-Management's Discussion
and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operations  for further
information on management's plans and liquidity.

H H'S RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED BY VARIATIONS IN INTEREST
RATES.

      The H H credit  facilities  are  collateralized  by  accounts  receivable,
inventory,  and  property,  plant and  equipment.  These credit  facilities  are
variable rate obligations which expose H H to interest rate risks.

7

WARREN G. LICHTENSTEIN,  OUR CHAIRMAN, AND CERTAIN OTHER OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS,
THROUGH THEIR AFFILIATION WITH STEEL PARTNERS II, L.P., HAS THE ABILITY TO EXERT
SIGNIFICANT INFLUENCE OVER OUR OPERATIONS.

      Warren G. Lichtenstein,  our Chairman,  as the sole managing member of the
general  partner of Steel Partners II, L.P., is also deemed to own  beneficially
the shares of our common stock owned by Steel  Partners II, L.P.  Steel Partners
II, L.P.  beneficially  owns 5,029,793 shares of our common stock,  representing
approximately 50.3% of our outstanding common stock. Mr.  Lichtenstein,  as sole
managing  member of the general  partner of Steel  Partners II,  L.P.,  has sole
investment  and  voting  control  over the  shares  beneficially  owned by Steel
Partners II, L.P. and thus has the ability to exert  significant  influence over
our policies and affairs,  including  the election of our Board of Directors and
the approval of any action requiring stockholder vote, such as amendments to our
Certificate of Incorporation and approving mergers or sales of substantially all
of our assets,  as well as matters where the interests of Mr.  Lichtenstein  and
Steel Partners II, L.P. may differ from the interests of our other  stockholders
in some respects.  In addition,  employees of an affiliate of Steel Partners II,
L.P.  hold  positions  with WHX,  including  Glen M.  Kassan as Chief  Executive
Officer and John J. Quicke as Vice President, and as directors.

RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESSES

IN MANY CASES,  H H'S COMPETITORS ARE LARGER THAN US AND HAVE  MANUFACTURING AND
FINANCIAL  RESOURCES  GREATER  THAN WE DO,  WHICH MAY HAVE A NEGATIVE  IMPACT ON
H H'S BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION.

      There are many  companies,  both domestic and foreign,  which  manufacture
non-precious wire and tubing products,  and other specialty  engineered products
of the type H H manufactures.  There are also a number of competitors in each of
the classes of precious metals products H H sells. Some of these competitors are
larger than H H is and have financial  resources  greater than H H does. Some of
these competitors enjoy certain other competitive advantages,  including greater
name recognition; greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources; a
larger  installed base of customers;  and  well-established  relationships  with
current and potential customers. H H may not be able to compete successfully and
competition  may have a negative  impact on its business,  operating  results or
financial  condition by reducing  volume of products sold and/or selling prices,
and accordingly reducing its revenues and profits.

H H'S PROFITABILITY MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY FLUCTUATIONS IN THE COST OF RAW
MATERIALS.

      H H is  exposed  to  market  risk and  price  fluctuation  related  to the
purchase of natural  gas,  electricity,  precious  metals,  steel  products  and
certain non-ferrous metals used as raw materials.  Its results of operations may
be  adversely  affected  during  periods  in which  either  the  prices  of such
commodities are unusually high or their  availability  is restricted.  H H holds
precious metal positions that are subject to market fluctuations. Precious metal
inventory  is included  in  inventory  using the  last-in,  first-out  method of
inventory  accounting.  H H enters into forward or future  contracts  with major
financial institutions to reduce the economic risk of price fluctuations.

WE SPONSOR A DEFINED  BENEFIT PENSION PLAN WHICH COULD SUBJECT US TO SUBSTANTIAL
CASH FUNDING REQUIREMENTS IN THE FUTURE.

      In  2004  and  2005,  WHX  contributed  $6.0  million  and  $1.2  million,
respectively,   to  the  WHX  Pension  Plan.  The  estimated   minimum   funding
requirements  for the WHX Pension Plan in 2006,  2007, 2008 and through 2011 are
$20.6  million,  $2.7  million,  $0.0 million and $16.7 million  (which  amounts
reflect  the recent  passage of the Pension  Protection  Act of 2006 by Congress
which  had  the  effect  of   changing   the  minimum   funding   requirements),
respectively. Our pension benefit costs are developed from actuarial valuations.
Inherent  in these  valuations  are  assumptions  including  discount  rates and
expected  long-term  rates of return on plan  assets.  Material  changes  in our
pension  costs may occur in the future due to changes in market  conditions  not
consistent with the assumptions,  changes in assumptions,  or other changes such
as a plan  termination,  in which case there may be additional claims related to
payment  for  unfunded  liabilities.  We have  applied  to the IRS for a funding
waiver  for the 2005 and 2006 plan  years,  but the IRS has since  limited  this
request to the 2005 plan year. If granted,  this waiver would change our minimum
funding  requirements  to $9.9 million,  $10.0  million,  $7.9 million and $18.3
million (which amounts reflect the recent passage of the Pension  Protection Act
of 2006) in 2006, 2007, 2008, and through 2011, respectively. WHX is required to
make quarterly  funding payments for each plan year. In addition,  the remaining
minimum  required  contribution  for such earlier year is required to be made by
September 15 of the following  year. On September 15, 2006,  WHX was required to
make a  minimum  contribution  for the 2005  plan  year in the  amount  of $15.5
million. However, WHX did not make that contribution due to liquidity issues. If
the funding waiver  described above is granted,  such payment would no longer be
due. WHX has made  contributions in 2006 in the aggregate amount of $9.9 million
(including a payment of $5.0 million on October 30,  2006).  The  penalties  for
failure to make timely  payment of the 2005 minimum  funding  requirement  could
result in penalties of 10% of such deficiency,  as well as an additional penalty
of 100% of such amount under certain circumstances.  In addition, the failure to
make  timely  quarterly  funding  payments  could  result in the  assessment  of
interest. The PBGC filed a lien against the assets of H H to secure, among other
things,  the funding  deficiency,  and on October 20, 2006,  entered into a Lien
Subordination  Agreement with Wachovia Bank, N.A  ("Wachovia"),  H H's principal
lending  bank.  On October 26, 2006,  WHX entered into a  non-binding  letter of
intent  with the PBGC,  which  provides,  among  other  things,  for the PBGC to
recommend to the IRS that it approve the funding waiver  application for the WHX
Pension Plan for the 2005 plan year,  which amount would be amortized  over five
years,  and for the PBGC to receive certain  subordinate  liens on the assets of
H H and the  Company to secure  the  waiver  amount  and  certain  other  agreed
obligations.  WHX and the PBGC  are  presently  working  to  prepare  definitive
documentation  relating  to the letter of intent  with the PBGC.  If the funding
waiver is not granted, or definitive documentation is not

8

finalized  and  executed,  there is no  assurance  we will be able to obtain the
funds required to make the payments.  In such event,  there is substantial doubt
about the Company's  ability to continue as a going  concern.  See "Risk Factors
- -There is substantial  doubt as to the Company's  ability to continue as a going
concern"  and  Item  7  -"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial
Condition  and Results of  Operations - H H  Liquidity  and Capital  Resources -
Bankruptcy Filing and Plan of Reorganization of the WPC Group."

H H'S BUSINESSES ARE SUBJECT TO GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.

      H H operates in a wide range of  manufacturing  businesses  that serve the
construction,    electric,   electronic,   home   appliance   OEM,   automotive,
refrigeration,   utility,   telecommunications,   medical  and  energy   related
industries.   As  a  result,   H H's  results  of  operations  tend  not  to  be
disproportionately  affected  by any one  industry  or  segment,  but tend to be
affected by general economic  conditions and other factors worldwide,  including
fluctuations in interest rates,  customer demand,  labor costs and other factors
beyond its control.  The demand for H H's  customers'  products and,  therefore,
H H's products, is directly affected by such fluctuations.

THE LOSS OF ANY OF OUR MAJOR CUSTOMERS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT H H'S REVENUES AND
FINANCIAL HEALTH.

      In 2005, H H's 15 largest customers accounted for approximately 35% of its
consolidated net sales. If H H were to lose any of its relationships  with these
customers, its revenues and profitability could fall.

OUR STRATEGY INCLUDES  SELECTIVE  ACQUISITIONS AND ACQUISITIONS  ENTAIL NUMEROUS
RISKS.

      Our  strategy  includes,  among  other  things,  strategic  and  selective
acquisitions.  This element of our strategy entails several risks, including the
diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, whether or not
we are  successful in finding  acquisitions,  and the potential  need to finance
such acquisitions with additional debt.

      In addition,  once found,  acquisitions  entail further risks,  including:
unanticipated costs, including  environmental  liabilities that could materially
adversely  affect  our  results  of  operations;  difficulties  in  assimilating
acquired  businesses;  and negative effects on existing  business  relationships
with suppliers and customers.

H H'S  COMPETITIVE  ADVANTAGE COULD BE REDUCED IF ITS  INTELLECTUAL  PROPERTY OR
RELATED PROPRIETARY  MANUFACTURING  PROCESSES BECOME KNOWN BY ITS COMPETITORS OR
IF TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES REDUCE H H'S CUSTOMERS' NEED FOR ITS PRODUCTS.

      H H owns a number of  trademarks  and  patents  (in the United  States and
other  jurisdictions)  on its  products  and related  proprietary  manufacturing
processes.  In addition to trademark and patent protection,  H H relies on trade
secrets,  proprietary  know-how  and  technological  advances  that it  seeks to
protect.  If H H's  intellectual  property is not properly protected by it or is
independently  discovered by others or otherwise  becomes known,  its protection
against competitive products could be diminished.

H H COULD INCUR SIGNIFICANT COSTS,  INCLUDING  REMEDIATION COSTS, AS A RESULT OF
COMPLYING WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS.

      H H's  facilities and  operations  are subject to extensive  environmental
laws and regulations  imposed by federal,  state,  foreign and local authorities
relating to the protection of the environment. It could incur substantial costs,
including cleanup costs, fines or sanctions, and third-party claims for property
damage or personal  injury,  as a result of violations of or  liabilities  under
environmental  laws. H H has incurred,  and in the future may continue to incur,
liability  under  environmental  statutes  and  regulations  with respect to the
contamination detected at sites owned or operated by it (including contamination
caused by prior owners and operators of such sites,  abutters or other  persons)
and the sites at which H H disposed of hazardous substances. We have established
a reserve  totaling  $27.5 million with respect to certain  presently  estimated
environmental  remediation  costs.  As of  December  31,  2005,  the Company had
insurance   receivables  of  $2.0  million   relating  to  these   environmental
remediation  costs, which were recovered in 2006. This $27.5 million reserve may
not be adequate to cover the ultimate costs of remediation,  including discovery
of additional  contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup  obligations
which could result in significant  additional  costs.  In addition,  H H expects
that future  regulations,  and changes in the text or interpretation of existing
regulations, may subject it to increasingly stringent standards. Compliance with
such requirements may make it necessary for H H to retrofit existing  facilities
with  additional   pollution-control   equipment,   undertake  new  measures  in
connection  with  the  storage,   transportation,   treatment  and  disposal  of
by-products and wastes or take other steps,  which may be at a substantial  cost
to H H.

FACTORS   AFFECTING   THE  VALUE  OF   SECURITIES   ISSUED  UNDER  THE  PLAN  OF
REORGANIZATION

THERE IS NO ESTABLISHED MARKET FOR OUR NEW COMMON STOCK.

      No  established  market  exists for our new common  stock.  Our new common
stock is  presently  quoted on the pink  sheets.  Following  the  filing of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K and other  delinquent  periodic reports due under the
Securities Exchange Act of

9

1934, as amended,  we anticipate that our new common stock will be quoted on the
OTC Bulletin Board, and we expect to cooperate with any registered broker-dealer
who may seek to initiate  price  quotations  for our new common stock on the OTC
Bulletin Board.  Again,  however,  no assurance can be made that such securities
will be quoted on the OTC Bulletin  Board or that an active  trading market will
exist. Moreover, our new common stock was issued pursuant to the Plan to holders
of pre-petition  Senior Notes and Preferred Stock, and some of these holders may
prefer to  liquidate  their  investment  rather  than to hold it on a  long-term
basis. Accordingly, it is possible that the market for our new common stock will
be  volatile,  at least for an initial  period after the  Effective  Date of the
Plan.  In  addition,  there  can be no  assurance  as to  the  degree  of  price
volatility  in any market for our new common stock that does  develop.  Transfer
restrictions  contained in our new charter to help  preserve  our net  operating
loss carryovers will generally prevent any person from rapidly acquiring amounts
of our new common  stock such that such person  would hold 5% or more of our new
common  stock,  in each  case  for up to ten  years  after  July  29,  2005,  as
specifically  provided in our new charter.  These  transfer  restrictions  could
hinder development of an active market for our new common stock.

WE DO NOT  ANTICIPATE  PAYING  DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE  FORESEEABLE
FUTURE WHICH MAY LIMIT INVESTOR DEMAND.

      We do not  anticipate  paying any dividends on our new common stock in the
foreseeable  future.  Such lack of dividend prospects may have an adverse impact
on the market demand for our new common stock as certain institutional investors
may invest only in dividend-paying  equity securities or may operate under other
restrictions  that may  prohibit  or limit  their  ability  to invest in our new
common stock.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

      The Company  has an  outstanding  comment  letter  from the  Securities   
Exchange  Commission ("SEC") regarding its 2003 Report on Form 10-K and its 2004
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The Company has had certain discussions with the
SEC  concerning  the issues  raised in its  letter,  in  particular  whether the
Company's goodwill impairment test methodology  complied with generally accepted
accounting   principles.   The  Company  responded  to  the  SEC's  comments  in
conjunction  with the filing of this Form 10-K and has  addressed  the issues in
its current filing,  including a restatement  related to the Company's  goodwill
impairment.  As  of  the  filing  of  this  Form  10-K,  those  comments  remain
unresolved.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

      As of December 31, 2005, H H had 17 active  operating plants in the United
States, Canada, Denmark, France, Mexico, Malaysia and Singapore (50% owned) with
a total area of approximately 1,420,000 square feet, including warehouse, office
and  laboratory  space,  but not  including  the  plant  used  by the  Singapore
operation.  H H also owns or leases sales, service and warehouse facilities at 5
other locations in the United States (which, with H H's general offices,  have a
total area of  approximately  80,000  square feet) and owns 5  non-operating  or
discontinued  locations with a total area of approximately  400,000 square feet.
H H  considers  its  manufacturing  plants  and  service  facilities  to be well
maintained and efficiently  equipped,  and therefore suitable for the work being
done.  The  productive  capacity and extent of  utilization of its facilities is
dependent in some cases on general business conditions and in other cases on the
seasonality of the utilization of its products. Capacity can be expanded readily
to meet  additional  demands.  Manufacturing  facilities  of H H are located in:
Toronto,   Canada;   Camden,   Delaware;   Kolding,   Denmark;   Evansville  and
Indianapolis, Indiana; Agawam, Massachusetts;  Middlesex, New Jersey; Canastota,
New  York,  Canfield,  Ohio;  Tulsa  and  Broken  Arrow,  Oklahoma;  Norristown,
Pennsylvania; East Providence, Rhode Island; Cudahy, Wisconsin; Riberac, France;
Penang,  Malaysia;  and Singapore (50% owned). In 2006 H H sold its 50% interest
in Singapore and announced the closure of the Norristown, Pennsylvania facility.

      All plants are owned except for the  Canastota,  Middlesex,  Riberac,  and
Penang plants, which are leased.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

BANKRUPTCY FILING

      On March 7, 2005,  WHX filed a  voluntary  petition  to  reorganize  under
Chapter 11 of the United States  Bankruptcy Code with the Bankruptcy  Court. WHX
continued  to operate  its  businesses  and own and manage its  properties  as a
debtor-in-possession  under  the  jurisdiction  of the  Bankruptcy  Court and in
accordance  with the  applicable  provisions  of the  Bankruptcy  Code  until it
emerged from protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on July 29, 2005
(see below).

      WHX's  primary  business  is H H,  a  diversified  manufacturing  company.
Neither H H, nor any of WHX's other subsidiaries or affiliates, were included in
its Bankruptcy  Filing.  All of H H's operating units conducted  business in the
ordinary course during the  bankruptcy.  WHX's  Bankruptcy  Filing was primarily
intended to reduce its debt, simplify its capital structure,  reduce its overall
cost of capital and provide it with better access to capital markets.

10

On March 7, 2005, WHX also filed a proposed Plan of  Reorganization  and a
related  proposed  disclosure  statement with the Bankruptcy  Court.  On June 7,
2005,  WHX filed its first amended  Chapter 11 Plan. On June 8, 2005,  WHX filed
its second amended Disclosure Statement.

      On July 21, 2005, WHX Corporation's  Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization was
confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. The Plan became effective on July 29, 2005.

      See  Item  1  -Business  Voluntary  Petition  Under  Chapter  11  of  U.S.
Bankruptcy Code and Subsequent Events for further discussion.

SUMCO INC. V.  UNDERWRITERS AT LLOYD'S,  LONDON,  LEXINGTON  INSURANCE  COMPANY,
HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY, AND WURTTEMBERGISCHE VERSICHERUNG AG

      On July 7, 2004, Sumco Inc. ("Sumco"),  a wholly-owned  subsidiary of H H,
filed suit in the  Marion  County  Superior  Court of  Indiana  against  certain
underwriters  affiliated  with Lloyd's,  London,  Lexington  Insurance  Company,
Hartford Fire  Insurance  Company,  and  Wurttembergische  Versicherung  AG (the
defendants).  Sumco seeks to recover  monies from these  insurance  carriers for
losses  incurred  as a result of a January  20,  2002 fire at its metal  plating
facility  in  Indianapolis,  Indiana.  At the time of the fire,  Sumco's  parent
corporation,  WHX, had in place  layered fire  insurance  policies with combined
limits of $25 million and a deductible  of $100,000.  The  defendants  represent
carriers  who  provided  $15  million  in  insurance  coverage  in excess of two
underlying  policies of $5 million  each.  Defendants  have  previously  paid $5
million in claims.  Sumco  contends  that its losses are in excess of the policy
limits,  defendants  have acted in bad  faith,  and that it is  entitled  to the
payment of the remaining  approximate $10 million in insurance coverage provided
by the  defendants.  The defendants have denied the allegations of the complaint
and asserted  certain  defenses.  The matter is expected to go to trial in April
2007.

HANDY   HARMAN  REFINING  GROUP,  INC.,  DEBTOR  PLAINTIFFS  V.  HANDY   HARMAN,
DEFENDANT

      H H was a defendant in a lawsuit (the "Indemnity Action") filed by Handy  
Harman Refining Group, Inc. ("HHRG") (an unrelated party to H H) seeking a money
judgment in the amount of $8.5 million, plus interest,  which as of December 31,
2005 was alleged to be  approximately  $4.0  million,  for an alleged  breach of
contract in connection with H H's sale of its Precious Metals Refining  Division
to HHRG in 1996.  HHRG  subsequently  filed for  Chapter  11 and  commenced  the
Indemnity  Action in the  Bankruptcy  Court on or about August 14,  2002.  On or
about May 26, 2004,  the Indemnity  Action was  transferred to the United States
District  Court for the District of  Connecticut.  H H filed a proof of claim in
the HHRG  bankruptcy  which  had an  outstanding  amount of  approximately  $1.9
million and funds had been set aside in that amount by HHRG. The parties settled
this matter in June 2006 for the  surrender of the full amount of H H's proof of
claim of $1.9 million  plus a payment of $438,000 to HHRG.  The  settlement  was
approved by the Bankruptcy Court.

HH EAST PARCEL, LLC. V. HANDY   HARMAN

      This action  arises out of a purchase and sale  agreement  entered into in
2003  whereby  H H agreed to sell the  eastern  parcel of a  commercial  site in
Fairfield,  Connecticut to HH East Parcel, LLC ("HH East"). On or about April 5,
2005,  HH East  filed a Demand for  Arbitration  with the  American  Arbitration
Association  seeking  legal and  equitable  relief  including  completion of the
remediation of environmental conditions at the site in accordance with the terms
of  the  agreement.  An  arbitration  hearing  was  held  in  November  2005  in
Connecticut, pursuant to which HH East was awarded an amount equal to $5,000 per
day from January 1, 2005  through the date on which  remediation  is  completed.
This award would amount to  approximately  $3.8 million  through an  anticipated
completion  date  of  February  2007.  H H  applied  to the  Superior  Court  of
Connecticut,  Fairfield  County,  to have the  arbitration  award  vacated and a
decision  was  issued  on June  26,  2006,  denying  H H's  application.  H H is
appealing this decision. H H has been working cooperatively with the Connecticut
Department of Environmental Protection ("CTDEP") with respect to its obligations
under a consent  order entered into in 1989 that applies to both the eastern and
western  parcels  of  the  property.   H H  has   substantially   completed  the
investigation of the western parcel, and is continuing the process of evaluating
various options for its remediation.  The sale of the eastern parcel that is the
subject of this litigation triggered statutory obligations under Connecticut law
to investigate and remediate  pollution at or emanating from the eastern parcel.
H H completed the investigation and has been actively conducting  remediation of
all soil conditions on the eastern parcel for more than three years. Although no
groundwater  remediation  is  required,  there  will be  monitoring  of same for
several years. It is currently  expected that remediation of all soil conditions
on site will be completed by February 2007. The total remediation is expected to
exceed $27.0  million,  of which  approximately  $19.0 million had been expended
through October 2006. H H received  reimbursement of $2.0 million of these costs
from its carrier under a cost-cap insurance policy and is pursuing its potential
entitlement to additional coverage.

PAUL E. DIXON   DENNIS C. KELLY V. HANDY   HARMAN

      Two former  officers of H H filed a Statement  of Claim with the  American
Arbitration  Association  ("Arbitration") on or about January 3, 2006,  alleging
four claims  against H H. The Claimants  were  employees of H H until  September
2005 when their

11

employment  was  terminated  by  H H.  Their  claims  include  seeking  payments
allegedly  due  under  employment  contracts  and  allegedly  arising  from  the
terminations,  and seeking  recovery of benefits  under what they allege was the
Handy   Harman Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.

      The Statement of Claim recites that the  employment  agreements of each of
the  Claimants  provides that H H may  terminate  their  employment at any time,
without prior notice,  for any of the following  reasons:  "(i) [the  officer's]
engaging  in conduct  which is  materially  injurious  to [H H] or [WHX],  their
subsidiaries  or  affiliates,  or any of their  respective  customer or supplier
relationships, monetarily or otherwise; (ii) [the officer's] engaging in any act
of fraud,  misappropriation  or embezzlement or any act which would constitute a
felony (other than minor traffic violations);  or (iii) [the officer's] material
breach of the  agreement." The Statement of Claim further  alleges,  and H H has
not disputed,  that each Claimant's  employment was terminated in September 2005
pursuant to a letter,  which  stated in part,  that each  Claimant  had violated
provisions of such  officer's  employment  agreement,  contained in the previous
sentence,  "by, INTER ALIA, attempting to amend and put in place various benefit
plans to  personally  benefit  yourself,  without  notice to, or approval of the
Board of  Directors;  for  further  failing to  disclose  the  existence  of the
relevant  plan  documents  and other  information  to the Board;  for failing to
cooperate in the Company's investigation of these important issues; for material
losses to the Company in connection with these actions....".

      In the  Arbitration,  Claimants  sought an award in  excess of $4  million
each,  plus  interest,   costs  and  attorneys'  fees.   Claimants  also  sought
indemnification for certain matters and an injunction against H H with regard to
life insurance  policies.  H H brought a special proceeding on February 15, 2006
in the  Supreme  Court of the State of New York,  County of  Westchester,  for a
judgment staying the arbitration of three of the four claims. On March 10, 2006,
all of the parties filed a stipulation with the court,  discontinuing  the court
proceeding and agreeing therein, among other things, that all claims asserted by
the  Claimants in the  Arbitration  (which was also  discontinued  at that time)
would be asserted in Supreme Court, Westchester County.

      In April 2006,  Claimants  served a request for  benefits,  severance  and
other  amounts,  similar  to those  described  above,  on H H and  various  plan
administrators and fiduciaries  thereof.  The request was reviewed in accordance
with the  procedures  of the plans at issue and by letter  dated  September  27,
2006,  Claimants were notified that their request was largely denied;  they have
served H H with a demand for  documents  in order to prepare  their  appeal,  to
which demand the company is preparing its  response.  While no action is pending
in any court,  H H does not  believe  that it is liable to  Claimants  under the
claims  that  have been  asserted  to date,  and it  intends  to  defend  itself
vigorously against any claims that may be asserted by Claimants. There can be no
assurance that H H will be successful in defending  against any such claims,  or
that H H will not have any  liability  on account of claims that may be asserted
by Claimants, and such liability, if any, cannot be reasonably estimated at this
time.. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the resolution of this matter
will not be material to the financial  position,  results of operations and cash
flow of the Company.

ARISTA DEVELOPMENT LLC V. HANDY   HARMAN ELECTRONIC MATERIALS CORPORATION

      In  2004,  a  subsidiary  of H H  entered  into  an  agreement  to  sell a
commercial/industrial  property  in  North  Attleboro,  Massachusetts.  Disputes
between  the  parties  led to suit being  brought in Bristol  Superior  Court in
Massachusetts.  The plaintiff  alleges that H H is liable for breach of contract
and  certain  consequential  damages  as a result  of H H's  termination  of the
agreement in 2005, although H H subsequently  revoked its notice of termination.
H H has denied  liability and has been vigorously  defending the case. The court
entered a preliminary  injunction  enjoining H H from  conveying the property to
anyone other than the  plaintiff  during the pendency of the case.  Discovery on
liability and damages has been stayed while the parties are actively  engaged in
settlement  discussions.  Concurrently  with these  settlement  efforts,  H H is
continuing to comply with a 1987 consent order from the Massachusetts Department
of Environmental  Protection ("MADEP") to investigate and remediate the soil and
groundwater  conditions.  H H is in discussions  with the EPA, the MADEP and the
plaintiff in connection  with the remedial  activities.  Since  discovery is not
completed, it cannot be known at this time whether it is foreseeable or probable
that  plaintiff  would  prevail in the  litigation or whether H H would have any
liability to the plaintiff.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

      H H entered into an administrative  consent order (the "ACO") in 1986 with
the New Jersey Department of Environmental  Protection  ("NJDEP") with regard to
certain  property  that it  purchased  in 1984 in New Jersey.  The ACO  involves
remediation  to be performed with regard to soil and  groundwater  contamination
allegedly  from TCE.  H H settled a case  brought by the local  municipality  in
regard to this site in 1998 and also settled with its insurance carriers. H H is
actively  remediating  the  property  and  continuing  to  investigate  the most
effective   methods  for   achieving   compliance   with  the  ACO.  A  remedial
investigation  report  was  filed  with  the  NJDEP  in May of  2006.  Once  the
investigation has been completed, it will be followed by a feasibility study and
a remedial  action work plan that will be  submitted to NJDEP.  H H  anticipates
entering into discussions in the near future with NJDEP to address that agency's
natural  resource damage claims,  the ultimate scope and cost of which cannot be
estimated at this time. The ongoing cost of  remediation is presently  estimated
at approximately  $450,000 per year, plus anticipated  additional costs in early
2007 of  approximately  $700,000.  Pursuant to a settlement  agreement  with the
former operator of this facility,  the responsibility for site investigation and
remediation  costs have been  allocated,  75% to the former  operator and 25% to
H H. To date, total investigation and remediation costs

12

of  $237,000  and  $79,000  have been  settled by the former  operator  and H H,
respectively, in accordance with this agreement. Additionally, H H has insurance
coverage for a portion of those costs for which the company is responsible.

      H H has been identified as a potentially  responsible  party ("PRP") under
the  Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,   Compensation  and  Liability  Act
("CERCLA") or similar state statutes at several sites and is a party to ACO's in
connection  with  certain  properties.  H H may be subject to joint and  several
liability  imposed  by CERCLA on  potentially  responsible  parties.  Due to the
technical and regulatory  complexity of remedial activities and the difficulties
attendant in  identifying  potentially  responsible  parties and  allocating  or
determining  liability  among them,  H H is unable to  reasonably  estimate  the
ultimate cost of compliance with such laws.

      In a case entitled AGERE SYSTEMS,  INC., ET AL. V. ADVANCED  ENVIRONMENTAL
TECHNOLOGY CORP., ET AL. (U.S.  District Court,  EDPA),  five companies,  all of
which are PRPs for the Boarhead Farm site in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, brought
CERCLA contribution and similar claims under  Pennsylvania's  environmental laws
against a number of companies in 2002,  including a subsidiary of H H, which the
plaintiffs claim  contributed to the  contamination of the Boarhead Farm site. A
number of the  plaintiffs  entered  into  settlements  with several of the named
defendants and consent decrees with the Environmental  Protection Agency ("EPA")
regarding the remediation of groundwater and soil  contamination at the Boarhead
Farm site.  There are currently  nine  non-settling  defendants,  including H H,
against which the plaintiffs are pursuing their claims.  Fact discovery has been
concluded and the parties are engaged in expert  discovery.  The plaintiffs have
already made  substantial  payments to the EPA in past  response  costs and have
themselves   incurred  costs  for  groundwater  and  soil   remediation,   which
remediation is continuing.  Plaintiffs are seeking reimbursement of a portion of
amounts  incurred  and an  allocation  of future  amounts from H H and the other
non-settling defendants. H H has been advised by counsel that its responsibility
for this site,  if any,  should be minimal and has  demanded  coverage  from its
insurance  carrier for any claims for which it could be held  liable.  It is not
possible to reasonably  estimate the cost of remediation or H H's share, if any,
of the liability at this time.

      H H received a notice letter from the EPA in August 2006  formally  naming
H H as a PRP at the Shpack landfill superfund site in Attleboro,  Massachusetts.
H H then voluntarily joined a group of ten (10) other PRPs to work cooperatively
to present to the EPA a good faith  offer  regarding  remediation  of this site.
Investigative  work is ongoing to determine whether there are other parties that
sent hazardous  substances to the Shpack site but that have not received  notice
letters  nor been named as PRPs to date.  No  allocation  as to  percentages  of
responsibility  for any of the PRPs has been assigned or accepted;  H H has been
advised by counsel that its  responsibility,  if any, is extremely  low. The PRP
group  submitted its good faith offer to the EPA in late October 2006. It is not
anticipated  that the EPA will accept or reject the PRPs'  offer until 2007.  If
accepted,  it is not anticipated  that PRP remedial  activities at the site will
begin  until  2008 or after.  The  remediation  of a  significant  amount of the
contamination  at the  site is the  responsibility  of the  U.S.  Army  Corps of
Engineers.  That  portion  of the  work  has  begun  but is not  expected  to be
completed  until 2008 or after,  at which time the  remaining  work will be more
clearly  defined.  Accordingly,  it is not  possible at this time to  reasonably
estimate the scope or cost of remediation at the site, nor the portion,  if any,
to be allocated to H H.

      As discussed above, H H has existing and contingent  liabilities  relating
to environmental matters,  including capital expenditures,  costs of remediation
and potential  fines and penalties  relating to possible  violations of national
and state  environmental  laws. H H has substantial  remediation  expenses on an
ongoing basis,  although such costs are continually  being readjusted based upon
the  emergence of new  techniques  and  alternative  methods.  In addition,  the
Company has insurance  coverage  available for several of these  matters.  Based
upon   information   currently   available,   including   H H's  prior   capital
expenditures, anticipated capital expenditures, and information available to H H
on pending  judicial  and  administrative  proceedings.  H H does not expect its
environmental compliance costs, including the incurrence of additional fines and
penalties,  if  any,  relating  to the  operation  of its  facilities  to have a
material  adverse  effect on the  financial  position,  but there can be no such
assurances. Such costs could be material to H H's results of operations and cash
flows. We anticipate that H H will pay such amounts out of its working  capital,
although there is no assurance that H H will have  sufficient  funds to pay such
amounts. In the event that H H is unable to fund these liabilities, claims could
be made  against WHX for  payment of such  liabilities.  As further  information
comes  into  the  Company's  possession,  it  will  continue  to  reassess  such
evaluations.

OTHER LITIGATION

      H H or its  subsidiaries  are a defendant in numerous  cases  pending in a
variety of jurisdictions relating to welding emissions.  Generally,  the factual
underpinning of the plaintiffs'  claims is that the use of welding  products for
their ordinary and intended  purposes in the welding process causes emissions of
fumes  that  contain  manganese,  which is toxic to the  human  central  nervous
system.  The  plaintiffs  assert that they were  over-exposed  to welding  fumes
emitted  by  welding  products  manufactured  and  supplied  by  H H  and  other
co-defendants.  H H denies  liability and is defending these actions.  It is not
possible  to  reasonably  estimate  H H's  exposure  or  share,  if any,  of the
liability at this time.

      In addition to the  foregoing  cases,  there are a number of other product
liability,  exposure,  accident,  casualty and other  claims  against H H or its
subsidiaries in connection with a variety of products sold by its divisions over
many  years,  as well as  litigation  related to  employment  matters,  contract
matters,  sales and purchase  transactions and general liability claims, many of
which arise in the ordinary course of business. It is not possible to reasonably
estimate H H's exposure or share, if any, of the liability at this time.

13

There is insurance coverage available for many of these actions, which are
being litigated in a variety of jurisdictions. To date, H H has not incurred and
does not believe it will incur any  significant  liability with respect to these
claims, which it contests vigorously in most cases. However, it is possible that
the  ultimate  resolution  of such  litigation  and claims could have a material
adverse effect on quarterly or annual results of operations,  financial position
and cash flows when they are resolved in future periods.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

      None.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON  STOCK,  RELATED  SECURITY  HOLDER
MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

      WHX's old common  stock was traded on the New York Stock  Exchange  during
2004.  The number of shares of common stock issued and  outstanding  as of March
31, 2005 was  5,485,856.  There were  approximately  10,923 holders of record of
common stock as of March 31, 2005.  WHX's shares were  delisted  from trading on
the New York Stock  Exchange,  effective  at the opening of business on March 7,
2005,  as a result of WHX's Chapter 11 bankruptcy  filing.  Thereafter,  the old
common stock was quoted on the over the counter  "Pink  Sheets" under the symbol
WHXCQ.PK until WHX's old common stock was cancelled on July 29, 2005. There were
no purchases of common stock made by WHX in 2005, 2004 and 2003.

      WHX emerged from  bankruptcy on July 29, 2005. The new common stock trades
on the over the counter "Pink Sheets" under the symbol WXCP.PK.

      The prices set forth in the  following  table  represent  the high and low
sales  prices of WHX's old common stock on the New York Stock  Exchange  through
July 29, 2005 and the new common stock on the over the counter "Pink Sheets":

            2005                             HIGH          LOW

Old Common Stock

First Quarter                              $  1.37       $ 0.07
Second Quarter                                0.09         0.03
Third Quarter (through July 29, 2005)         0.10         0.01

New Common Stock

Third Quarter (from July 30, 2005)         $ 12.20       $ 9.22
Fourth Quarter                               11.55        10.00

            2004                             HIGH          LOW

Old Common Stock

First Quarter                               $ 4.39       $ 2.59
Second Quarter                                3.00         1.40
Third Quarter                                 1.68         1.02
Fourth Quarter                                3.50         2.20

      The  historical  prices of the old common stock are not  indicative of the
future trading price of or trading market for the new common stock.

      WHX presently has no plans or  intentions to pay  dividends.  Prior to the
Effective  Date,  pursuant  to  the  terms  of  the  then-existing  Supplemental
Indenture  to  WHX's  10 1/2%  Senior  Notes  (see  Note 12 to the  Consolidated
Financial  Statements),  WHX was prohibited from paying  dividends on its common
stock or  preferred  stock until after  October 1, 2002,  at the  earliest,  and
thereafter  only  in the  event  that  it  satisfies  certain  conditions.  Such
conditions  were not  satisfied  as of December  31,  2004.  (See Note 13 to the
consolidated  financial  statements).  WHX was  further  prohibited  from paying
dividends on its common stock during such time as the full cumulative  dividends
on the preferred stock had not been paid.

14

As part of the  Plan of  Reorganization,  on July  29,  2005  all of WHX's
outstanding  securities,  including  WHX's  pre-bankruptcy  filing common stock,
Series A preferred stock,  Series B preferred stock and 10 1/2% senior notes due
2005 were cancelled and annulled.  In full and complete satisfaction of all such
claims, holders of WHX's 10 1/2% senior notes due 2005 received 9,200,000 shares
of the new common  stock  representing  their pro rata share of the  reorganized
company. These shares represent 92% of the equity in the reorganized company. In
full and complete  satisfaction  of all such interests,  preferred  stockholders
received  800,000  shares of the new common  stock  representing  their pro rata
share of the reorganized  company and 752,688  warrants to purchase common stock
of the  reorganized  company,  exercisable  at $11.20  per  share  and  expiring
February 28,  2008.  The common stock  received by the  preferred  stockholders,
collectively,  represents  8% of the  equity  in the  reorganized  company.  The
warrants issued to the preferred stockholders, collectively, represent the right
to purchase an  additional  7% of the equity of the  reorganized  company  after
giving  effect to the  exercise of the  warrants.  Holders of WHX's common stock
received no distributions under the Plan.

15

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

FIVE-YEAR STATISTICAL                                                        WHX CORPORATION
(THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
                                              2005              2004               2003               2002               2001
                                         --------------    --------------     --------------     --------------     --------------
                                                                            (AS RESTATED (C))  (AS RESTATED (D))   (AS RESTATED (D))
PROFIT AND LOSS (A)
Net sales                                $      403,815    $      371,961     $      289,890     $      338,223     $      339,946
Pre-tax income (loss) from continuing
  operations                                    (28,108)         (119,774)          (138,041)           (30,858)            73,324

Dividend requirement for preferred
  shareholders                                    3,561            19,424             19,424             19,224             19,329
Net income (loss) applicable to common
  stock (B)                              $      219,564    $     (159,868)    $     (179,348)    $      (67,125)    $       82,473
BASIC INCOME (LOSS)  PER SHARE:
Net income (loss)  per share
  applicable to common shares            $        30.36    $       (29.38)    $       (33.35)    $       (12.61)    $        16.48
DILUTED INCOME (LOSS)  PER SHARE:
Net income (loss)  per share
  applicable to common shares            $        30.36    $       (29.38)    $       (33.35)    $       (12.61)    $         9.69

Total assets - continuing operations            293,223           292,732            383,324            781,040            799,041
Net assets of discontinued operations             2,394            14,329             24,543             18,135            130,707
Short-term debt                                 144,834           224,027             40,056                 --                 --
Long-term debt                                    4,889             6,027            189,344            249,706            432,454
Equity                                          (55,704)          (96,929)            63,680            204,110            285,519

(a)  Years  2001-2004  have  been  revised  to  present  the  Wire  Group  as  a
discontinued operation.

(b) For purposes of  calculating  the 2005  Earnings Per Share,  the Company has
included the gain on the extinguishment of the preferred stock of $257.8 million
(representing  the  difference  between  the fair value of the common  stock and
warrants  issued upon emergence to the preferred  stockholders  and the carrying
value of the preferred  stock) as an increase in net income  available to common
shareholders  in accordance with EITF Topic D-42, "The Effect on the Calculation
of Earnings  per Share for the  Redemption  or Induced  Conversion  of Preferred
Stock".  See Note 13 to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  discussion on
earnings per share.

(c) See Note 1b to the Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in this Form
10-K.

(d) As more fully  described in Item 7, the Company has restated its fiscal 2002
and 2001 financial data as follows:

o     For goodwill  impairment matters in 2002, the Company recorded an increase
      to loss from continuing  operations  before tax and net loss applicable to
      common stock of $18.7 million and $15.8 million,  respectively.  The above
      adjustments decreased total assets in 2002 by $15.8 million.

o     For tax matters in 2002,  the Company  recorded a decrease to the net loss
      applicable to common stock of $1.3 million. As of December 31, 2002, these
      tax  matters  resulted  in an  increase  in  deferred  tax  assets of $4.6
      million, a decrease in accrued expenses of $3.3 million, and a decrease to
      goodwill of $1.7 million. In 2001, the Company recorded an increase to the
      net  income  applicable  to  common  stock of $0.7  million.  The  Company
      recorded a decrease  to the opening  accumulated  deficit as of January 1,
      2001 of $4.3 million.  As of December 31, 2001, these tax matters resulted
      in an  increase  to  deferred  tax assets of $4.7  million,  a decrease in
      accrued  expenses  of $1.9  million,  and a decrease  to  goodwill of $1.7
      million.

o     For hedge  accounting/inventory  matters in 2002,  the Company  recorded a
      decrease  to loss  from  continuing  operations  before  tax and net  loss
      applicable to common stock of $0.3 million.  In 2001, the Company recorded
      an increase to the net income from  continuing  operations  before tax and
      net  income  applicable  to  common  stock  of  $0.2  million.  The  above
      adjustments  decreased  total assets in 2002 by $5.3 million and increased
      total assets in 2001 by $0.6 million.

o     For life  insurance  accrual  matters in 2002,  the  Company  recorded  an
      increase  to loss  from  continuing  operations  before  tax and net  loss
      applicable to common stock of $0.2 million.  In 2001, the Company recorded
      a decrease to net income  from  continuing  operations  before tax and net
      income applicable to common stock of $0.2 million. The Company recorded an
      increase to the opening accumulated deficit of $0.4 million.

16

NOTES TO FIVE-YEAR SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

      On March 7, 2005,  WHX filed a  voluntary  petition  to  reorganize  under
Chapter 11 of the United States  Bankruptcy Code with the Bankruptcy  Court. WHX
continued  to operate  its  businesses  and own and manage its  properties  as a
debtor-in-possession  under  the  jurisdiction  of the  Bankruptcy  Court and in
accordance  with the  applicable  provisions  of the  Bankruptcy  Code  until it
emerged from protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on July 29, 2005
(see below).

      WHX's  primary  business  is H H,  a  diversified  manufacturing  company.
Neither H H nor any of WHX's other  subsidiaries  or affiliates were included in
WHX's Bankruptcy  Filing. All of H H's operating units conducted business in the
ordinary course during the  bankruptcy.  WHX's  Bankruptcy  Filing was primarily
intended  to reduce  WHX's debt,  simplify  its  capital  structure,  reduce its
overall cost of capital and provide it with better access to capital markets.

      On March 7, 2005, WHX also filed a proposed Plan of  Reorganization of WHX
Corporation (as amended, the "Plan") and a related proposed Disclosure Statement
with the Bankruptcy  Court. On June 7, 2005, WHX filed its first amended Chapter
11 Plan. On June 8, 2005, WHX filed its second amended Disclosure Statement.

      On July 21, 2005, WHX's Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization was confirmed by
the U. S.  Bankruptcy  Court for the  Southern  District  of New York.  The Plan
became effective on July 29, 2005.

      The  Bankruptcy  Filing  created an event of default  under the  Indenture
governing WHX's 10 1/2% Senior Notes due April 15, 2005.  Under the terms of the
Senior Notes, as a result of the Bankruptcy  Filing, the entire unpaid principal
and accrued interest (and any other additional  amounts) became  immediately due
and payable  without any action on the part of the trustee or the note  holders.
The  principal  amount  outstanding  under the Senior Notes at March 7, 2005 was
approximately $92.8 million. Accrued interest to March 7, 2005 was approximately
$3.8 million.

      The  following is a summary of certain  material  features of the Plan and
the Confirmation Order. On the Effective Date:

o     All of WHX's outstanding securities, including WHX's pre-bankruptcy filing
      common stock,  Series A preferred  stock,  Series B preferred stock and 10
      1/2% Senior Notes were deemed  cancelled and annulled  without further act
      or action.

o     In full and complete satisfaction of all such claims,  holders of WHX's 10
      1/2% Senior Notes received  9,200,000 shares of common stock  representing
      their prorated share of the reorganized  company.  These shares  represent
      92% of the equity in the reorganized company.

o     In  full  and  complete  satisfaction  of all  such  interests,  Series  A
      preferred   stockholders   received   366,322   shares  of  common   stock
      representing  their prorated share of the reorganized  company and 344,658
      warrants to purchase common stock of the reorganized company,  exercisable
      at $11.20 per share and expiring on February 28, 2008.

o     In  full  and  complete  satisfaction  of all  such  interests,  Series  B
      preferred   stockholders   received   433,678   shares  of  common   stock
      representing  their prorated share of the reorganized  company and 408,030
      warrants to purchase common stock of the reorganized company,  exercisable
      at $11.20 per share and expiring on February 28, 2008.

o     Holders  of  WHX's   pre-bankruptcy   filing  common  stock   received  no
      distribution under the Plan.

      The  common  stock  received  by  the  Series  A and  Series  B  preferred
stockholders,  collectively,  represents  8% of the  equity  in the  reorganized
company.   The  warrants   issued  to  the  Series  A  and  Series  B  preferred
stockholders,  collectively, represent the right to purchase an additional 7% of
the equity of the reorganized company after giving effect to the exercise of the
warrants.

      On the  Effective  Date,  all of the  assets  of WHX  were  vested  in the
reorganized  company  free and clear of all liens,  causes of  actions,  claims,
encumbrances,  equity interests,  and interests against,  in, or on such assets,
except as explicitly provided in the Plan.

      Since the Effective  Date,  the business units of H H continued to conduct
their businesses in the ordinary course.

      Included in continuing  operations for 2005 are $9.5 million in Chapter 11
and related  expenses.  The 2005 period also  includes  $4.1 million in expenses
related to change in control and termination benefits for three WHX executives.

      On November 16, 2000, the WPC Group filed petitions seeking reorganization
under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States  Bankruptcy  Code. As a result
of the Bankruptcy Filing (see Note 4 to the Consolidated  Financial Statements),
the Company,  as of November 16, 2000,  deconsolidated the balance sheet of WPC.
As a result of such  deconsolidation,  the accompanying  selected financial data
does not  include  any of the  assets  or  liabilities  of WPC or the  operating
results of WPC. As more fully discussed in Item 7 - Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operations  and Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, WHX agreed to provide additional funds to the
WPC Group amounting to $20.0 million. As a result, the Company recorded

17

for the year ended  December 31, 2002,  an equity loss in WPC. A Chapter 11 Plan
of Reorganization was confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court on June 18, 2003 and was
consummated on August 1, 2003. Pursuant to the terms of the WPC POR, among other
things, the WPC Group ceased to be a subsidiary of WHX effective August 1, 2003,
and from that date forward has been an independent company.

      WHX  had  received  a $10.0  million  subordinated  note  from  WPSC  upon
consummation  of the WPC POR, which had been fully  reserved.  In July 2004, WHX
realized  $5.6  million  upon  the  sale  of the  note  to a  third  party  and,
accordingly,  $5.6 million was recorded in other income in the second quarter of
2004.

      In the five year period  ended  December  31,  2005,  WHX did not make any
purchases of common or preferred stock.

      In  connection  with the  refinancing  of the H H  Senior  Secured  Credit
Facilities  (see  discussion in Item 7 - "Liquidity  and Capital  Resources") in
March 2004, WHX wrote off deferred  financing fees of $1.2 million.  This charge
is classified as loss on early retirement of debt.

      Environmental remediation expenses of $29.0 million were recorded in 2004.
Included in this amount is $26.3 million  related to Fairfield  East (see below)
and $1.1 million for a location in North Attleboro,  Massachusetts.  The balance
of the expense relates to several other locations.

      In  2003,  H H  sold  a  portion  of its  former  Fairfield,  CT  facility
("Fairfield  East") for $8.0  million.  In  connection  with this sale,  H H was
responsible  for  demolition  and  environmental  remediation  of the site,  the
estimated  cost of which was included in the loss on sale  recorded in 2003.  In
2004,  H H  determined  that  an  increase  in  the  reserve  for  environmental
remediation was needed for Fairfield East, in the amount of $28.3 million.  This
increase in the reserve was caused by the  discovery of  underground  debris and
soil  contaminants  that had not been  anticipated.  The Company  has  recovered
insurance in the amount of $2.0 million in 2006 related to this site; therefore,
the net  expense  included  in  environmental  remediation  expense  in the 2004
financial  statements  related to the Fairfield East site is $26.3  million.  An
insurance  receivable  of $2.0 million is included on the  consolidated  balance
sheet.  An  additional  $3.8  million  was  recorded  in  selling,  general  and
administrative expenses as a penalty related to the Fairfield facility.

      During 2003,  2002,  and 2001 WHX  purchased  and retired  $17.7  million,
$134.6 million, and $36.4 million, respectively,  aggregate principal amounts of
10 1/2% Senior  Notes in the open market,  resulting  in gains of $3.0  million,
$42.5 million, and $19.0 million, respectively.

      In accordance  with Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 144,
"Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets" (SFAS 144), the
Company has  evaluated  fixed assets  associated  with its HHEM  facility.  This
evaluation  has resulted in the recording of  accelerated  depreciation  of $0.2
million in 2004, and $0.8 million in 2005.  This  accelerated  depreciation is a
charge to cost of goods sold in the applicable  period. The Company is currently
reviewing its options regarding the HHEM operating unit.

      On May 9, 2006,  the  Company  announced  the  closing of the  Norristown,
Pennsylvania  facility of Handy   Harman Tube Co. ("HHT"). The decision to close
the  Norristown  facility was  principally  based on the  economics of operating
HHT's business at the facility.  HHT manufactured stainless steel tubing that is
supplied in various lengths and forms in both coil and straight  lengths.  HHT's
coil  business  was  relocated  to H H's Camdel  Metals  Corporation  ("Camdel")
facility located in Camden,  Delaware.  HHT's non-coil business is being offered
for sale and the real  property at the site is also being  offered,  separately,
for sale.

      The decision to close the  Norristown  facility will result in a charge of
up to $1.6 million for termination  benefits for up to 84 union employees and 35
salaried  employees in 2006.  H H estimates  that  operating  losses and closure
costs will  approximate $1.5 million and are expected to be incurred through the
end of the year.  Accordingly,  the estimated  total cost including  termination
benefits, operating losses and closure costs will be approximately $3.1 million.
In addition, the Company expects to incur approximately $0.9 million in expenses
to relocate  aspects of the HHT  business to Camdel.  Loss and cash  expenditure
estimates could vary based upon actual timing of closure and other factors.  HHT
expects  that the  closing of  Norristown  and the sale of certain of its assets
will be completed by the end of 2006,  with most of the  remaining  assets being
sold in 2007.

      On June 30, 2004, the Company  evaluated the current  operating  plans and
current  and  forecasted  operating  results  of H H wire   cable  business.  In
accordance  with SFAS 144, the Company  determined that there were indicators of
impairment   as  of  June  30,  2004  based  on  continued   operating   losses,
deteriorating margins, and rising raw material costs. An estimate of future cash
flows  indicated that as of June 30, 2004,  cash flows would be  insufficient to
support the carrying value of the long-term assets of the business. Accordingly,
these  assets were  written  down to their  estimated  fair value by recording a
non-cash  asset  impairment  charge of $3.9  million in the second  quarter.  In
November 2004,  H H announced that it had signed a non-binding  letter of intent
to sell its wire  business  and that it was  negotiating  the sale of its  steel
cable business.  The decision to sell was based on continued  operating  losses,
deteriorating  margins  and  rising  raw  material  costs  experienced  by these
businesses.  Based on the  proposed  terms of these  transactions,  the  Company
recorded an additional asset impairment charge of $4.3 million. At that time H H
stated that if it were

18

unable  to  complete  these  sales  it  would  consider  the  closure  of  these
operations.  On January 13, 2005, H H determined that a sale of these operations
could not be completed on terms satisfactory to it. Accordingly,  H H decided to
permanently  close the wire   cable  businesses.  The  affected  operations  are
located in Cockeysville, Maryland and Oriskany, New York.

      In the fourth quarter of 2004, H H communicated to its 146 union employees
its plan to either  sell or close the wire and cable  business  and  recorded  a
restructuring charge of $1.2 million for termination benefits and related costs.
These  termination  benefits were paid in 2005.  Additionally,  $0.4 million was
recorded  as  a  restructuring   charge  for  clean  up  costs  related  to  the
Cockeysville, Maryland facility. These restructuring charges are included within
selling and administrative  expenses. The Company operated these facilities on a
limited  basis  in the  first  quarter  of 2005 in  order  to  fulfill  customer
commitments.  Operating  losses and closure  costs  incurred in 2005 amounted to
$4.2 million  including  both a $0.7  million gain on the sale of certain  fixed
assets and $0.9 million charge for additional termination benefits. Accordingly,
the  estimated  total cost  including  termination  benefits,  operating  losses
(excluding  fixed asset  gains) and  closure  costs will be  approximately  $6.5
million.  These costs will be funded  from  realization  of working  capital and
proceeds  from the sale of fixed  assets  of  these  businesses.  In the  second
quarter  of 2005 H H  concluded  all  operations  of the wire   cable  business.
Accordingly,  these businesses are reported as discontinued operations beginning
in the  second  quarter  of  2005.  The  sale of land,  buildings,  and  certain
machinery   equipment relating to these businesses was not completed until 2006.

      In 2003, the Company recorded a $67.3 million non-cash goodwill impairment
charge relating to the following businesses: $29.0 million for specialty tubing,
and $38.3 million for precious metal plating. The Company recorded these charges
because the implied  value of goodwill,  as  determined  by estimated  cash flow
projections, was less than the reporting units' carrying value. For the Precious
Metals Plating business, the primary reason for the impairment charge related to
a facility  that had  experienced  a fire in 2002 and was not  expected to fully
recover for several years. As a result of unanticipated  competitor  discounting
and ongoing competitive pressures in the U.S. automotive industry,  the dynamics
of this business  changed,  resulting in a further  reduction in forecasted cash
flows for the future,  at the end of 2003. With respect to the Tubing  reporting
unit, there was a general decline in business,  led by the semiconductor market,
combined with operational issues related to new processes.

      The Company  conducted the required annual goodwill  impairment review for
2004,  and with the  assistance  of a third party  specialist  computed  updated
valuations  for  each  reporting  unit as  determined  by  estimated  cash  flow
projections  and market  comparables.  Based on the  results of this  review the
Company recorded a $79.8 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge relating to
the following businesses:  $34.2 million for specialty tubing, $19.0 million for
precious metal plating,  and $26.6 million for precious metal  fabrication.  The
Company  recorded  these  charges  because the  implied  value of  goodwill,  as
determined by estimated cash flow  projections  and data on market  comparables,
was less than the reporting  units'  carrying  value.  The decrease in value was
related to a reduction  in the  projection  of future  profitability,  increased
working  capital  requirements,  an  increase  in the  discount  rate,  and  the
identification  of  previously  unrecognized  intangibles.  The precious  metals
fabrication reporting unit experienced a substantial increase in working capital
requirements  as a  result  of the  unanticipated  loss of the  precious  metals
consignment  facility.  Consequently,  the overall  value of this  business  was
diminished  and the goodwill  attributable  to the precious  metals  fabrication
reporting  unit was  impaired  in  2004.  Within  the  precious  metals  plating
reporting unit, one of the business components started experiencing  significant
operational  issues in 2003.  In addition,  this  business  component  failed to
achieve forecasted  profitability from new programs.  Another business component
continued to struggle  beyond  expectations  in its efforts to  reestablish  its
customer  base and  historical  profitability.  As a result of these  additional
unanticipated  changes in this  business,  the forecast  for the precious  metal
plating business was revised and the remaining  goodwill was impaired at the end
of 2004. The Tubing business also had an unexpected and  significant  decline in
the gross  profit of one of its business  components  in 2004 as a result of the
loss of a significant  customer to a competitor and delays in launching  certain
new products.  As a result,  the forecast for this reporting unit declined,  and
additional goodwill was impaired.

      A pre-tax,  non-cash charge for the cost of early retirement incentives of
$11.5  million  was  recognized  in the  third  quarter  of  2003  as a  special
termination  benefit  in  accordance  with  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 88,  "Employers'  Accounting for Settlement  and  Curtailments  of
Defined  Benefit  Pension Plans and for  Termination  Benefits"  ("SFAS 88"). In
addition,  a  curtailment  occurred  as a result of the break in service for WPC
Group employees that resulted in a pre-tax,  non-cash charge of $36.6 million in
the third quarter of 2003, pursuant to SFAS 88.

      In the first quarter of 2002,  WHX adopted the  provisions of Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."
("SFAS  142") As a  result,  WHX  recorded  a $41.1  million  non-cash  goodwill
impairment charge.  This charge is shown as a cumulative effect of an accounting
change. In addition, as required by SFAS 142, as of January 1, 2002, goodwill is
no longer  amortized.  The impairment  charge of $41.1 million  consisted of the
impairment of all goodwill  attributable  to the Wire group and a portion of the
goodwill  attributable to a reporting unit in the Engineered  Materials segment.
In the case of the Wire group the  Company  had  impaired  all of the Wire group
goodwill  of $32.5  million  on the  basis  that  this  reporting  unit had been
experiencing  negative  gross  profit  and  negative  operating  income  with no
long-term projections of significant improvement.

19

In the fourth  quarter of 2002,  the  Company  recorded  an $18.7  million
non-cash  goodwill  impairment  charge  relating to the precious  metal  plating
business.  The Company  recorded this charge because the fair value of goodwill,
as determined by estimated  cash flow  projections,  was less than the reporting
units' carrying value.  This was principally  attributed to a fire at one of its
facilities,  which  resulted  in the  loss of  business  and  profitability.  In
developing the cash flow projections for the reporting unit, the Company reduced
its  forecast  with  respect to this  particular  business  and  projected  that
recovery to historical  profitability  would take several years.  As a result of
this change caused by the fire, as well as other less significant  factors,  the
Company's valuation for this reporting unit was negatively  impacted,  resulting
in the impairment charge of $18.7 million.

      In July 2002, WHX sold the stock of Unimast Incorporated, its wholly owned
subsidiary,  for $95.0 million and  recognized a gain of $11.9  million,  net of
tax.

      During 2002, the Company recorded  restructuring  charges of $20.0 million
relating to the closure of certain  Handy   Harman  operations.  Of this charge,
$8.0 million  related to the Wire Group and is accordingly  included in the loss
from discontinued operations in 2002.

      In  December  2001,  WHX  sold  its  interest  in  Wheeling-Downs   Racing
Association,  Inc.  for $105.0  million in cash and  recognized  a gain of $88.5
million.   Also   included  in  2001  is  WHX's  equity  share  in  earnings  of
Wheeling-Downs in the amount of $15.0 million.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

MANAGEMENT'S PLANS AND LIQUIDITY

      The  accompanying  financial  statements  have been prepared  assuming the
Company will  continue as a going  concern.  The Company  incurred net losses of
$34.7  million,  $140.4  million and $159.9 million for the years ended December
31,  2005,  2004  and  2003,  respectively  and had  negative  cash  flows  from
operations of $5.0 million and,  $39.6 million for the years ended  December 31,
2005,  and 2004,  respectively.  As of  December  31,  2005,  the Company had an
accumulated  deficit of $394.0 million and a working  capital  deficit of $122.1
million as of December 31, 2005 and $172.7 million as of December 31, 2004. With
the exception of $4.9 million of other H H debt, all debt has been  reclassified
as current due to noncompliance with certain debt covenants.

      In March 2005, WHX filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the
United States Bankruptcy Code. Following WHX's emergence from bankruptcy in July
2005, the Company  continued to experience  liquidity  issues.  WHX is a holding
company and has as its sole source of cash flow distributions from its operating
subsidiary,  H H, or other discrete  transactions.  H H's bank credit facilities
and term loan  effectively do not permit it to transfer any cash or other assets
to WHX and are  collateralized by substantially all of H H's assets.  WHX has no
bank credit facility of its own. WHX's operating cash flow requirements  consist
of funding  the  supplemental  retirement  plan,  certain  employee-related  and
administrative costs and the bankruptcy-related expenses, all of which were paid
by March 31,  2006.  On an ongoing  basis,  the  Company is required to meet the
funding  requirements  for the WHX  Pension  Plan and pay  other  administrative
costs.

      Since  emerging from  bankruptcy,  due to covenant  restrictions  in H H's
credit  facilities,  there  have  been no  dividends  from H H to WHX and  WHX's
sources of cash flow have consisted of:

      o     The issuance of $5.1 million in preferred stock by a newly created
            subsidiary, which was invested in the equity of a small public
            company; and

      o     Partial payment of the H H subordinated debt to WHX of $9.0 million,
            which required the approval of the banks participating in the bank
            facility. Subsequent to this transaction in 2006, the remaining
            intercompany loan balance of the subordinated debt of $44.2 million
            was converted to equity.

      As of September 30, 2006, WHX had cash of  approximately  $1.6 million and
current  liabilities of  approximately  $6.9 million,  including $5.1 million of
mandatorily  redeemable preferred shares issued by a wholly-owned  subsidiary of
WHX and  payable to a related  party.  WHX also has  significant  2006 cash flow
obligations,  including without  limitation the minimum funding  requirement for
the WHX Pension  Plan,  which is estimated to be $20.6 million ($4.9 million was
paid as of July 14, 2006 and $5.0  million was paid by H H in October  2006) and
estimated other administrative costs for 2006 of approximately $3.8 million. The
PBGC filed a lien against the assets of H H to secure,  among other things,  the
funding deficiency existing as a result of WHX's

20

failure to make required  contributions  to the WHX Pension Plan, and on October
20,  2006  the PBGC  entered  into a lien  subordination  agreement  with  H H's
revolving credit facility lender. This subordination agreement provides that the
subordination provisions shall not apply to any debt incurred after December 31,
2006. As previously indicated, there are no current sources of cash available to
WHX to satisfy these obligations, other than the sale of its subsidiary's equity
investment  (estimated  market  value at  September  30, 2006 of $5.0  million),
possible insurance proceeds from current  litigation,  or the sale of H H (which
is not currently contemplated).  If WHX does not obtain additional liquidity, it
is likely that WHX will not have  sufficient cash to continue to operate through
the end of 2007.

      In 2006, WHX applied to the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for a funding
waiver for the WHX  Pension  Plan  contributions  for the 2005 and the 2006 plan
years,  but the IRS has since  limited  this  request to the 2005 plan year.  If
granted,  this waiver  would  change the minimum  funding  requirements  to $9.9
million,  $10.0 million,  $7.9 million and $18.3 million (which amounts  reflect
the recent  passage of the Pension  Protection Act of 2006 by Congress which had
the effect of changing the minimum funding requirements) in 2006, 2007, 2008 and
through 2011 respectively,  from $20.6 million,  $2.7 million, $0.0 million, and
$16.7  million  (which  amounts  reflect  the  recent  passage  of  the  Pension
Protection  Act of 2006 by  Congress) in such years  without the waiver.  WHX is
required to make quarterly funding payments for each plan year. In addition, the
remaining minimum required  contribution for such earlier year is required to be
made by September 15 of the  following  year.  On  September  15, 2006,  WHX was
required to make a minimum  contribution for the 2005 plan year in the amount of
$15.5 million.  However, WHX did not make that contribution due to its liquidity
issues. If the funding waiver described above is granted,  such payment would no
longer be due. WHX has made  contributions  in 2006 in the  aggregate  amount of
$9.9 million (including a payment of $5.0 million on or about October 30, 2006).
The  penalties  for failure to make timely  payment of the 2005 minimum  funding
requirement  could result in penalties of 10% of such deficiency,  as well as an
additional  penalty  of 100% of such  amount  under  certain  circumstances.  In
addition,  the failure to make timely quarterly funding payments could result in
the  assessment of interest.  The PBGC filed a lien against the assets of H H to
secure,  among other  things,  the funding  deficiency,  and on October 20, 2006
entered into a Lien  Subordination  Agreement  with  Wachovia , H H's  principal
lending  bank..  On October 26, 2006,  WHX entered into a non-binding  letter of
intent with the PBGC ("PBGC LOI"),  which provides,  among other things, for the
PBGC to recommend to the IRS that it approve the funding waiver  application for
the WHX Pension  Plan for the 2005 plan year,  which  amount  would be amortized
over five years,  and for the PBGC to receive certain  subordinate  liens on the
assets of H H and the  Company  to secure the waiver  amount and  certain  other
agreed obligations. WHX and the PBGC are presently working to prepare definitive
documentation  relating  to the letter of intent  with the PBGC.  If the funding
waiver  is  not  granted,  or  definitive  documentation  is not  finalized  and
executed,  there  is no  assurance  that WHX will be able to  obtain  the  funds
required  to make the  payments.  H H is jointly  and  severally  liable for the
funding of the WHX Pension Plan.

      The Company intends to attempt to refinance the H H bank credit facilities
and to restructure  the Term B Loan,  which is held by a related  party,  and is
contemplating  other financing options.  As part of any such refinancing,  it is
possible that additional  liquidity will be provided and that the restriction on
distributions  from H H to WHX will be modified.  There can be no assurance that
any refinancing  will be completed in a timely manner,  if at all. If WHX cannot
obtain additional debt or equity  financing,  or liquidity upon a refinancing of
the H H bank credit  facilities,  there can be no  assurance  that WHX will have
sufficient funds to continue to operate.

      As of September 30, 2006,  H H's  availability  under its revolving credit
facility  was  $11.7  million;   however,  based  on  the  Company's  forecasted
borrowings,  these  available  funds may not be  sufficient to fund debt service
costs,  working  capital  demands  (especially in light of recent high commodity
prices,  primarily silver and gold), and environmental  remediation  costs. From
January 1, 2006  through  September  30,  2006,  H H spent  approximately  $12.2
million for the remediation of environmental  conditions at the site of a former
manufacturing  facility  which it had  previously  sold.  H H  expects  to spend
approximately   an  additional  $8.8  million  through  2007  to  complete  this
remediation.  In  addition,  H H may owe the buyer of the  property a penalty of
approximately  $3.8 million,  based on an estimated  completion date in February
2007,  which will increase if the  remediation is not completed by this date. An
arbitration  award,  which was  upheld by a court and is  currently  on  appeal,
concluded  that  H H will be  obligated  to pay this  penalty.  However,  H H is
awaiting a judicial  decision  as to the  enforceability  of this  penalty.  The
amount of availability  provided by H H's revolving credit facility limits H H's
borrowing  ability and is anticipated to continue to limit H H's liquidity until
it can refinance  this facility.  Additionally,  this credit  facility  contains
various financial covenants,  including minimum EBITDA, as defined, fixed charge
coverage  ratio and  limitations  on  capital  expenditures.  The  Company is in
violation of certain of these  covenants.  The facility  also  includes  certain
financial  reporting  requirements,  which the  Company has been unable to meet.
Historically, H H has been able to obtain amendments to financial covenants when
future  results  were not expected to comply with these  covenants.  H H has not
obtained an amendment for these  covenant  violations,  and, as a result,  is in
default of the  facility.  Accordingly,  the  Company  has  classified  all debt
subject to these covenants as current liabilities in these financial statements.
H H and its bank group have  amended  its  facility  as of October  30,  2006 to
provide,  among other  things,  an  additional  $7.0  million term loan upon the
filing of its 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K,  and an immediate $3.0 million of
borrowing  availability  under its revolving  credit  facility.  H H's revolving
credit  facility also matures on March 31, 2007.  There can be no assurance that
this amendment will provide H H with the liquidity it requires,  that current or
future  covenant  violations  will be waived by the banks,  or that  replacement
financing will be obtained upon commercially reasonable terms, if at all.

21

The above conditions raise  substantial  doubt about the Company's ability
to continue as a going concern.  These  financial  statements do not include any
adjustments  to reflect the possible  future effects on the  recoverability  and
classification  of assets or amounts and  classification of liabilities that may
result from the outcome of this uncertainty.

RESTATEMENT OF PREVIOUSLY ISSUED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

      The Company has restated its 2003 and prior years' financial statements to
correct its  accounting for goodwill  impairment,  certain tax matters and other
corrections,  including its accounting for derivative instruments  (specifically
future  contracts on precious  metals) and related  impact on inventory  and its
accounting for an executive life insurance program as described below.

GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT

      In fiscal  2003,  the Company  previously  recorded a goodwill  impairment
charge  of  $89.0  million  relating  to  several  of its  reporting  units.  In
connection  with the preparation of its 2004 financial  statements,  the Company
identified several errors in its assessment of goodwill impairment  resulting in
the  need to  restate  its  2002 and  2003  consolidated  financial  statements,
including:  (1) the reallocation of goodwill,  upon the date of adoption of SFAS
142, 'Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets',  to the applicable  reporting units
of the Company  based on a more  reasonable  and  supportable  methodology;  (2)
identification of additional reporting units not previously considered;  (3) use
of a different  discount rate that more  appropriately  considered the different
risks  associated  with the  individual  reporting  units rather than an overall
consolidated rate; (4) identification of certain intangible assets that were not
previously  considered in determining the implied  goodwill as of the assessment
date;  and (5) use of a  growth  rate in  determining  the  terminal  value of a
reporting unit, which the Company did not consider in its original valuations.

      The  effect  of  correcting  these  errors  was  to  reduce  the  goodwill
impairment charge, loss from continuing operations and net loss by $21.7 million
for the year ended December 31, 2003. The effect of correcting  these errors for
the year ended December 31, 2002 was to increase the goodwill  impairment charge
and loss from  continuing  operations by $18.7 million,  decrease the cumulative
effect of an  accounting  change by $2.9  million,  and to increase  net loss by
$15.8 million.

TAX MATTERS

      As of December  31,  2002,  the Company had  included  $5.3 million in its
deferred tax assets  related to the recording of an additional  minimum  pension
liability.  As of  December  31,  2003,  the  Company  established  a  valuation
allowance for all deferred tax assets,  and incorrectly  charged $5.3 million to
other comprehensive loss for the valuation allowance related to the deferred tax
asset  associated with the minimum pension  liability.  The Company now believes
that in  accordance  with the  provisions  of SFAS 109,  "Accounting  for Income
Taxes",  the charge to other  comprehensive  loss  should  have been a charge to
income tax  expense.  Accordingly,  the net loss for 2003 has been  increased by
$5.3 million and accumulated other comprehensive loss and accumulated deficit as
of  December  31,  2003  were  decreased  and  increased  by  the  same  amount,
respectively.

      As a result of the  Company's  review of deferred  taxes,  federal  taxes,
state taxes payable and tax reserves  (federal and state),  certain  errors were
identified related to 2003 and prior periods. The effect of these errors on 2003
is an increase  in tax  expense of $12.0  million,  including  the $5.3  million
adjustment to comprehensive  loss discussed above. The Company had established a
valuation  allowance against its net deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2003.
As part of the 2003 restatement,  the Company increased its valuation  allowance
to reflect $1.1 million of deferred tax  liabilities  that can not be considered
when   assessing   the   realizability   of  deferred   tax  assets  in  certain
jurisdictions.  These  deferred tax  liabilities  primarily  relate to temporary
differences for the tax  amortization of tax deductible  goodwill.  In addition,
the Company  increased  its valuation  allowance by $4.6 million for  additional
federal  deferred tax assets that were recorded as part of the  restatement  for
2002 and prior  periods but  required a valuation  allowance  as of December 31,
2003. The Company also increased its valuation allowance to reflect $0.6 million
and $0.1 million of state and foreign  deferred tax  liabilities,  respectively,
that it had  inappropriately  netted against federal  deferred tax assets in its
previously issued 2003 financial statements.  The balance of the restatement for
2003 tax matters relates primarily to state tax issues.

      The effect of tax errors on 2002 and 2001 is a tax benefit of $1.3 million
and $0.7  million  respectively.  These tax  benefits  relate  primarily  to the
reversal of federal and state reserves. As of December 31, 2001, tax restatement
matters resulted in a $5.0 million decrease to accumulated deficit. The decrease
to accumulated  deficit relates primarily to additional deferred tax assets that
should have been recorded in periods prior to 2001.

      Deferred  taxes  relating  to  hedge  accounting  and  related   inventory
accounts, and executive life restatements were also recorded and are included in
the  adjustments   discussed   above.   The  goodwill   restatement   items  are
non-deductible and accordingly have no impact on tax matters.

22

As of  December  31,  2003,  tax  restatement  matters  resulted in a $3.0
million decrease to accrued liabilities, a $1.9 million increase to net deferred
tax liabilities, a $5.3 million decrease to other comprehensive loss, and a $1.7
million decrease to goodwill.  The reduction in accrued liabilities includes the
reversal  of a  $1.7  million  tax  reserve  attributable  to H H  prior  to its
acquisition by the Company. The reversal of this reserve reduced goodwill by the
same amount.

INVESTMENT BORROWINGS

      During  fiscal  2003 and  2002,  the  Company  frequently  traded  in U.S.
Treasury  securities  which were  classified as short term  investments and were
considered   trading   securities  under  SFAS  115,   "Accounting  for  Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity  Securities".  Accordingly,  the Company recorded
the  activity in these  trading  investments  as  operating  cash  flows.  As of
December 31, 2002, the Company had  short-term  margin  borrowings,  aggregating
$107.9 million,  which were borrowed to fund these short-term  investments.  The
Company has determined that it incorrectly  recorded  changes in such borrowings
as cash flows from operating  activities when such  borrowings  should have been
reported as cash flows from  financing  activities in  accordance  with SFAS 95,
"Statement of Cash Flows".

      The effect of  correcting  these  errors in 2003 was an  increase  in cash
flows  provided by operating  activities of $107.9  million,  and an increase in
cash flows used in financing  activities for the same amount.  This  restatement
had no effect on the 2003 net change in cash for the period.

OTHER CORRECTIONS

HEDGE ACCOUNTING/INVENTORY

      In order to  produce  certain  of its  products,  the  Company  purchases,
maintains and utilizes precious metals inventory. The Company maintains policies
consistent with economically hedging its precious metals inventory against price
fluctuations. Hedge accounting under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133,  "Accounting for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging  Activities" (SFAS
133), requires contemporaneous  documentation at the inception of the applicable
hedging   relationship,   including   the  method  for   assessing  the  hedging
instrument's  effectiveness  as well as the method  that will be used to measure
hedge  ineffectiveness.  The  Company  did not meet the  documentation  criteria
necessary to apply hedge accounting.  Accordingly,  the Company has restated its
financial  statements  to mark to market the  derivative  financial  instruments
related to precious  metals.  Such mark to market  adjustments,  including  both
realized  and  unrealized  gains and  losses,  are  recorded  in current  period
earnings as other income or expense in the Company's  consolidated  statement of
operations.  In addition,  the Company has restated its financial  statements to
record its  precious  metal  inventory  at LIFO cost subject to lower of cost or
market with any adjustments  recorded through cost of goods sold. The correction
of this error  results in an  increase to fiscal 2003 cost of goods sold of $0.3
million and other expense of $0.2 million for an aggregate increase to loss from
continuing  operations before taxes of $0.5 million.  There was no impact on the
2003 balance sheet as all precious metal and hedges were liquidated during 2003.
In fiscal 2002 the  correction  of this error  results in an increase to cost of
goods sold of $1.0  million and other  income of $1.3 million for a net decrease
to loss from continuing  operations before taxes of $0.3 million.  Inventory was
reduced by $5.8 million, other current assets were increased by $0.5 million and
accounts payable were decreased by $5.8 million.  In 2001 the correction of this
error  results in a decrease  to cost of goods  sold of $0.4  million  and other
income of $0.2 million for a net decrease  from loss from  continuing  operation
before  taxes of $0.2  million.  In 2001  inventory  and  accounts  payable were
increased by $0.4 million, other current assets increased by $0.2 million.

LIFE INSURANCE ACCRUAL

      The Company has an Executive  Post-Retirement Life Insurance Program which
provides for life insurance  benefits for certain Company  executives upon their
retirement.  The insurance premium is paid by the Company. The Company accounted
for the cost of this  program  since  its  inception  in 1998 on a pay as you go
basis and did not follow the  guidance  as required by  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards  No.  106 -  "Employers'  Accounting  for  Post-Retirement
Benefits  Other  Than  Pensions"  (SFAS  106).  Under SFAS 106,  the  Company is
required to recognize  in its  financial  statements  an annual cost and benefit
obligation  related  to  estimated  future  benefit  payments  to be made to its
current and retired executives. Accordingly, the Company recorded an increase in
operating  expenses  for years ended  December 31, 2002 and 2001 of $0.2 million
and $0.2 million, respectively, and a decrease in operating expenses in the year
ended  December 31, 2003 of $0.1 million to reflect a partial  curtailment  with
respect to the plans.  Long-term  liabilities increased as of December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001 in the amount of $0.6  million,  $0.7  million  and $0.6  million,
respectively,  to give  effect  to the  proper  accounting  for  this  plan.  An
adjustment to decrease opening retained earnings by $0.4 million was recorded in
2001 for the correction of errors prior to 2001.

23

RESTATEMENT OF UNAUDITED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      The Company has  restated its  previously  issued  unaudited  consolidated
financial  statements for the quarters  ended March 31, 2004,  June 30, 2004 and
September 30, 2004 (the "Interim Restatement").  The Interim Restatement will be
given full effect in the  financial  statements  to be included in the Company's
Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters  ended March 31, 2005,  June 30,
2005 and September 30, 2005,  when they are filed.  See Note 19 to  Consolidated
Financial  Statements for details of the  restatements in each of the respective
2004 quarters.

OVERVIEW

      WHX is a holding  company that  invests in and manages a diverse  group of
businesses. WHX's primary business currently is H H, a diversified manufacturing
company whose  strategic  business units encompass  three  reportable  segments:
precious  metal  plating  and  fabrication,  specialty  tubing,  and  engineered
materials.

      H H from time to time  continues to evaluate  the sale of non-core  assets
and certain underperforming  businesses, as well as strategic acquisitions.  WHX
has provided,  and may provide from time to time in the future,  information  to
interested  parties regarding portions of its non-core assets and businesses for
such purposes.

24

The following table presents  information  about reported segments for the years
ended December 31:

(in thousands)                                              2005             2004             2003
                                                        ------------     ------------     ------------
                                                                                          (AS RESTATED)
Net Sales

   Precious Metal                                       $    116,958     $    105,289     $     84,572
   Tubing                                                    114,355          104,019           85,533
   Engineered Materials                                      172,502          162,653          119,785
                                                        ------------     ------------     ------------

          Net sales                                     $    403,815     $    371,961     $    289,890
                                                        ============     ============     ============

Segment operating income (loss)
   Precious Metal (a)                                   $     (1,644)    $    (44,828)    $    (36,155)
   Tubing (b)                                                   (446)         (30,793)         (27,442)
   Engineered Materials                                       13,462           16,367            8,423
                                                        ------------     ------------     ------------
          Subtotal                                            11,372          (59,254)         (55,174)

Unallocated corporate expenses                                 8,575            8,214           15,743
Environmental remediation expense (c)                             --           28,971              502
Fairfield penalty (c)                                             --            3,845               --
Pension - curtailment   special termination benefits              --               --           48,102
Loss (gain) on disposal of assets (d)                            103             (592)           4,803
                                                        ------------     ------------     ------------

          Income (loss) from operations                        2,694          (99,692)        (124,324)

Interest expense                                              17,236           25,486           19,005
Chapter 11 and related reorganization expenses                 9,454               --               --
Gain on disposition of WPC                                        --               --              534
Gain (loss) on early retirement of debt                           --           (1,161)           2,999
Other income (loss)                                           (4,112)           6,565            1,755
                                                        ------------     ------------     ------------

          Loss from continuing operations before taxes       (28,108)        (119,774)        (138,041)

Tax provision                                                  2,342            2,172           13,208

          Loss from continuing operations, net               (30,450)        (121,946)        (151,249)

Loss from discontinued operations, net                        (4,207)         (18,498)          (8,675)
                                                        ------------     ------------     ------------
          Net loss                                      $    (34,657)    $   (140,444)    $   (159,924)
                                                        ============     ============     ============

(a)   Includes a goodwill  impairment  charge of $45.6 million in 2004 and $38.4
      million in 2003.
(b)   Includes a goodwill  impairment  charge of $34.2 million in 2004 and $29.0
      million in 2003.
(c)   Environmental  remediation  expense and  Fairfield  penalty  have not been
      allocated to the reporting segments since the related facilities have been
      closed for  several  years and are not  indicative  of  current  operating
      results.
(d)   Loss  (gain) on  disposal  of assets  includes  the  following  amounts by
      segment for 2005,  2004 and 2003  respectively.  Precious Metal - $9, $101
      and $4,557;  Tubing - ($5),  ($13),and  $2 ;  Engineered  Materials - $99,
      ($4), and ($23); Corporate $0, ($676), and $267.

2005 COMPARED TO 2004

      Sales in 2005 were $403.8  million  compared with $372.0  million in 2004.
Sales increased by $11.7 million at the Precious Metal Segment, $10.3 million at
the Tubing  Segment and by $9.8  million at the  Engineered  Materials  Segment.
Gross  profit  percentage  decreased  in the 2005  period to 18.0% from 19.6% in
2004.  Gross profit  percentage  in 2005 was  negatively  impacted by higher raw
material costs.

      Selling,  general and administrative  expenses increased $5.4 million from
$64.4  million in 2004 to $69.8 million in 2005.  The 2005 period  includes $4.1
million in  unallocated  corporate  expenses  related  to change in control  and
termination  payments for three WHX executives,  and $2.4 million related to the
acquisition of Protechno division in the fourth quarter of 2004. The 2004 period
includes $3.8 million recorded in Selling,  General and Administrative  Expenses
for an  arbitration  award  against the Company  for failure to  remediate  in a
timely manner the environmental  conditions at the Fairfield East location.  The
2004 period also includes a $1.2 million reserve for a receivable from HHRG, the
reversal of a $1.3 million reserve for a legal proceeding that was settled in

25

the Company's favor and $1.8 million of expenses incurred in connection with the
pursuit of various recapitalization options. The balance of the increase of $4.4
million is due to increased sales levels and increased legal and medical costs.

      There  were  no  material   environmental  expenses  recognized  in  2005.
Environmental  remediation  expenses  of $29.0  million  were  recorded in 2004.
Included in this amount is $26.3 million  related to a facility in Fairfield CT.
In 2003,  the  Company  sold a portion  of its  former  Fairfield,  CT  facility
("Fairfield  East") for $8.0 million.  In connection  with this sale the Company
was  responsible for demolition and  environmental  remediation of the site, the
estimated  cost of which was included in the loss on sale recorded in 2003.  H H
determined  that an increase in the reserve for  environmental  remediation  was
needed for Fairfield  East, in the amount of $28.3 million which was recorded in
the fourth  quarter of 2004.  This  increase  in the  reserve  was caused by the
discovery  of  underground  debris  and  soil  contaminants  that  had not  been
anticipated.  The Company has recovered  insurance in the amount of $2.0 million
in 2006  related to this site;  therefore  the net expense  included in the 2004
financial  statements is $26.3 million. An insurance  receivable of $2.0 million
is included on the  consolidated  balance  sheet.  Additionally  $1.1 million in
environmental remediation expenses were recorded in 2004 for a location in North
Attleboro,  Massachusetts.  The balance of the expense  relates to several other
locations.

      Loss on  disposal  of assets  amounted  to $0.1  million in 2005.  Gain on
disposal of assets amounted to $0.6 million in 2004. Included is the gain on the
sale of an aircraft of $1.7  million  offset by the write off of the balance due
related to the sale of a property in the amount of $1.0 million.

      The Company  conducted the required annual goodwill  impairment review for
2004,  and with the  assistance  of a third party  specialist  computed  updated
valuations  for each  reporting  unit using a discounted  cash flow and a market
approach.  Based on the  results  of this  review the  Company  recorded a $79.8
million  non-cash   goodwill   impairment   charge  relating  to  the  following
businesses: $34.2 million for specialty tubing, $19.0 million for precious metal
plating, and $26.6 million for precious metal fabrication.  The Company recorded
these  charges  because the fair value of goodwill,  as  determined by estimated
cash  flow  projections  and  data on  market  comparables,  was  less  than the
reporting  units'  carrying  value.  The  decrease  in value  and the  resulting
impairment  charge  were  related to a  reduction  in the  projection  of future
profitability,  increased  working  capital  requirements,  an  increase  in the
discount rate and the identification of previously unrecognized intangibles. The
precious metals fabrication reporting unit experienced a substantial increase in
working  capital  requirements  as a  result  of the  unanticipated  loss of the
precious metals consignment  facility.  Consequently,  the overall value of this
business was diminished  and the goodwill  attributable  to the precious  metals
fabrication  reporting  unit was  impaired in 2004.  Within the  precious  metal
plating  reporting  unit, one of the business  components  started  experiencing
significant  operational  issues in 2003. In addition,  this business  component
failed to achieve forecasted  profitability from new programs.  Another business
component   continued  to  struggle  beyond   expectations  in  its  efforts  to
reestablish its customer base and historical profitability. As a result of these
additional unanticipated changes in this business, the forecast for the precious
metal plating  business was revised and the  remaining  goodwill was impaired at
the end of 2004.  The Tubing  business  also had an unexpected  and  significant
decline  in the gross  profit  of one of its  business  components  in 2004 as a
result of the loss of a  significant  customer  to a  competitor  and  delays in
launching certain new products. As a result the forecast for this reporting unit
declined, and additional goodwill was impaired.

      Operating  income from  continuing  operations  for 2005 was $2.7  million
compared to a $99.7 million operating loss for 2004.

      Interest  expense in 2005  decreased  $8.3 million,  to $17.2 million from
$25.5  million  in 2004.  As a result  of the  Bankruptcy  Filing,  WHX  stopped
accruing interest on its 10 1/2% Senior Notes as of March 7, 2005. This resulted
in a savings of approximately $8.0 million in the 12 month period ended December
31, 2005 compared to the comparable 2004 period. Included in interest expense in
2004 is a $1.8  million fee in  connection  with the  assignment  of an H H term
loan. The assignment will result in an annual interest  savings of $2.8 million.
These decreases in interest expense were partially offset by increased  interest
rates on increased  borrowings  at H H.  The  increased  borrowings  at H H were
primarily  a result of $20.4  million  in  capital  expenditures  and  increased
working capital requirements.

      Other expense in 2005 was $4.1 million.  This includes a $4.3 million loss
on derivatives due to increased  precious metal prices,  $0.6 million in foreign
transaction  losses offset by $0.2 in equity earnings on a subsidiary  accounted
for under the  equity  method of  accounting  and $0.2  million in  earnings  on
investments.

      As part of the  amended  Chapter  11  Plan of  Reorganization  for the WPC
Group,  WHX  had  agreed  conditionally  to  provide  additional  funds  to WPSC
amounting  to $20.0  million.  As a result  of WHX's  obligation  to fund  $20.0
million to WPC, WHX had recorded a $20.0 million charge as an equity loss in WPC
for the year ended December 31, 2002. On August 1, 2003,  upon  consummation  of
the WPC POR, WHX contributed  $20.0 million in cash to the  reorganized  company
and received a $10.0 million  subordinated  note from WPSC.  This note was fully
reserved in 2003.  In July 2004,  WHX realized $5.6 million upon the sale of the
note to a third  party and,  accordingly,  the  reserve  was  reversed  and $5.6
million  was  recorded  in other  income in the  second  quarter  of 2004.  Also
included in other income in 2004 are $0.4 million of net investment earnings.

26

In  connection  with the  refinancing  of the H H  Senior  Secured  Credit
Facility in March 2004,  the Company wrote off deferred  financing  fees of $1.2
million. This charge is classified as loss on early retirement of debt.

      Loss  from  discontinued  operations  was $4.2  million  in 2005 and $18.5
million in 2004. In 2004, the Company  evaluated the current operating plans and
current and  forecasted  operating  results of H H's wire   cable  business.  In
accordance  with SFAS 144, the Company  determined that there were indicators of
impairment   as  of  June  30,  2004  based  on  continued   operating   losses,
deteriorating margins, and rising raw material costs. An estimate of future cash
flows  indicated that as of June 30, 2004,  cash flows would be  insufficient to
support the carrying value of the long-term assets of the business. Accordingly,
these  assets were  written  down to their  estimated  fair value by recording a
non-cash  asset  impairment  charge of $3.9  million in the second  quarter.  In
November 2004,  H H announced that it had signed a non-binding  letter of intent
to sell its wire  business  and that it was  negotiating  the sale of its  steel
cable business.  The decision to sell was based on continued  operating  losses,
deteriorating  margins  and  rising  raw  material  costs  experienced  by these
businesses.  Based on the  proposed  terms of these  transactions,  the  Company
recorded an additional asset impairment charge of $4.3 million. At that time H H
stated  that if it were unable to complete  these  sales it would  consider  the
closure of these operations.  On January 13, 2005, H H determined that a sale of
these  operations  could  not  be  completed  on  terms   satisfactory  to  H H.
Accordingly,  H H decided to permanently close the wire   cable businesses.  The
affected  operations  are located in  Cockeysville,  Maryland and Oriskany,  New
York.

      In the fourth quarter of 2004, H H communicated to its 146 union employees
its plan to either  sell or close the wire and cable  business  and  recorded  a
restructuring charge of $1.2 million for termination benefits and related costs.
These  termination  benefits were paid in 2005.  Additionally,  $0.4 million was
recorded  as  a  restructuring   charge  for  clean  up  costs  related  to  the
Cockeysville,  Maryland  facility The Company  operated  these  facilities  on a
limited  basis  in the  first  quarter  of 2005 in  order  to  fulfill  customer
commitments.  Operating  losses and closure  costs  incurred in 2005 amounted to
$4.2 million  including  both a $0.7  million gain on the sale of certain  fixed
assets and $0.9 million charge for additional termination benefits. Accordingly,
the  estimated  total cost  including  termination  benefits,  operating  losses
(excluding  fixed asset  gains) and  closure  costs will be  approximately  $6.5
million.  These costs will be funded  from  realization  of working  capital and
proceeds  from the sale of fixed  assets  of  these  businesses.  In the  second
quarter of 2005,  H H  concluded all  operations  of the wire   cable  business.
Accordingly,  these businesses are reported as discontinued  operations The sale
of  land,  buildings,  and  certain  machinery     equipment  relating  to these
businesses was not completed until 2006.

      The Company has recorded a valuation allowance relating to the Federal net
deferred tax assets since it is the opinion of management that it is more likely
than not that such tax benefits will not be realized in future periods.  In 2005
a tax  provision of $2.3  million was  recorded for foreign and state taxes,  as
well as  additional  Federal  deferred tax  liabilities  relating to  intangible
assets with an  indefinite  life.  In 2004 a tax  provision  of $2.2 million was
recorded for foreign and state taxes, as well as additional Federal deferred tax
liabilities relating to intangible assets with an indefinite life.

      Income  applicable to common stock for 2005 amounted to $219.6  million or
$30.36 per share of common stock after  adjusting for preferred  stock dividends
and the  extinguishment of preferred stock as of March 7, 2005, as compared to a
net loss applicable to common stock of $159.9 million, or $29.38 per basic share
of common stock after adjusting for preferred stock dividends.

The comments  that follow  compare  revenues and  operating  income by operating
segment for the years ended 2005 and 2004:

PRECIOUS METALS

      Sales for the Precious Metals Segment  increased $11.7 million from $105.3
million in 2004 to $117.0 million in 2005. Of the $11.7 million  increase,  $8.4
million was due to gains in market share for both new and existing  customers in
the precious metal markets and $6.1 million accounted for the acquisition of the
Protechno  division in the fourth quarter of 2004.  Partially  offsetting  these
increases  were lower sales of $2.7 million at the precious  metal plating units
due to decreased volume to its automotive and electronics customers.

      Operating  loss for the Precious  Metals  segment was $1.6 million in 2005
compared to an operating loss of $44.8 million in 2004. The 2004 period includes
a $45.6 million  non-cash charge for goodwill  impairment.  The Company recorded
this charge because the fair value of goodwill in this segment, as determined by
estimated  cash  flow  projections  and  market  comparables,  was less than the
reporting units' carrying value. The goodwill  impairment  charge includes $26.6
million  related to the precious metal  fabrication  unit.  This change resulted
from greater than projected uses of working  capital  related to higher precious
metal prices and the elimination of the precious metal consignment facility. The
remaining  $19.0  million  of the  goodwill  impairment  charge  related to this
segment's  precious  metal plating  unit.  The decrease in value of goodwill was
related  to a  reduction  in the  projection  of  future  profitability,  and an
increase in the discount  rate from 15.5% to 16.8%  representing  an increase in
the  perceived  risk  of  the  business.   The  decrease  in  estimated   future
profitability  was  primarily  related to a reduction in unit  pricing,  and the
failure  to  achieve  anticipated  manufacturing  efficiencies  along  with  the
inability to achieve forecasted profitability from new programs. Excluding the

27

non-cash charge for goodwill,  operating income  decreased  primarily due to the
lower sales of the precious metals plating units described above.

TUBING

      Sales for the Tubing Segment  increased  $10.3 million from $104.0 million
in 2004 to $114.3 million in 2005. Of the $10.3 million  increase,  $6.6 million
was due to increased prices to offset the higher cost of steel, $2.6 million due
to  market  share  gains  at  the  refrigeration   units.   Stronger  demand  in
petrochemical,  military,  aircraft  markets  accounted  for $2.5 million of the
increase offset by reduced sales of $1.3 million to the medical industry.

      Operating loss for the Tubing segment was $0.4 million in 2005.  Operating
loss for 2004 was  $30.8  million.  The 2004  period  includes  a $34.2  million
non-cash  charge for  goodwill  impairment.  The  Company  recorded  this charge
because  the fair  value of  goodwill,  as  determined  by  estimated  cash flow
projections and market comparables,  was less than the reporting unit's carrying
value.  The  decrease in value was related to a reduction in the  projection  of
future  profitability,  an  increase  in the  discount  rate from 11.4% to 12.0%
representing an increase in the perceived risk of the business. The reduction in
future  profitability  was primarily related to several factors including higher
raw  material  costs  which  could not be  passed  along to  customers,  pricing
degradation in the appliance market, and the loss of a key customer. Included in
2005 are start up costs of  approximately  $1.7 million  associated with our new
refrigeration  tubing  unit  in  Mexico.  Our  other  refrigeration  units  were
negatively  impacted by the  reduced  volume  noted above and high steel  costs.
Partially offsetting these reductions in operating income is the stronger demand
in  petrochemical,  military,  aircraft  and  medical  markets as they relate to
certain of H H's tubing businesses.

ENGINEERED MATERIALS

      Sales for the  Engineered  Materials  segment  increased $9.8 million from
$162.7  million in 2004 to $172.5 in 2005.  This increase in sales was primarily
due to stronger  commercial roofing and home center markets,  market share gains
accounted for $7.3 million,  while  increased sales prices for both new and core
products  accounted for $4.7  million.  These  increases  were offset by reduced
volume at H H's electro-galvanizing facility.

      Operating  income  decreased by $2.9 million from $16.4 million in 2004 to
$13.5 million in 2005. This decrease in operating income is primarily due to the
decreased volume and increased steel costs at our electro-galvanizing  facility,
partially  offset  by  increased  operating  income  resulting  from  the  sales
increases mentioned above.

Unallocated Corporate Expenses

      Unallocated corporate expenses increased from $8.2 million in 2004 to $8.6
million  in 2005.  Non-recurring  items in each year were as  follows:  the 2005
period  included  $4.1  million  of expense  related  to change in  control  and
termination  payments for three WHX executives.  The 2004 period included a $1.2
million reserve for a receivable from HHRG, $1.8 million of expenses incurred in
connection  with the  pursuit  of  various  recapitalization  options,  and $0.4
million of  depreciation  expense  related to the aircraft owned and sold by the
Company in 2004,  partially offset by the reversal of a $1.3 million reserve for
a legal proceeding that was settled in the Company's favor. In addition to these
non-recurring  items,  there  were  lower  costs  in 2005  for  salaries,  legal
expenses,  directors  and  stockholders  expenses,  partially  offset by a lower
pension credit in 2005.

2004 COMPARED TO 2003

      Sales in 2004 were $ 372.0 million  compared with $ 289.9 million in 2003.
Sales increased by $20.7 million at the Precious Metal Segment, $18.5 million at
the Tubing Segment,  and by $42.9 million at the Engineered  Materials  Segment.
Gross  profit  percentage  decreased  in the 2004  period to 19.6% from 20.6% in
2003.  Gross profit  percentage  in 2004 was  negatively  impacted by higher raw
material costs, primarily steel and precious metal.

      Selling,  general and  administrative  expenses  ("SG A")  increased  $1.1
million from $63.3 million in 2003 to $64.4 million in 2004.  This resulted from
decreased  pension  expense of $7.7  million,  lower  professional  fees and the
termination of the WPN management  agreement.  The 2004 period also includes the
reversal of a $1.3 million  reserve for a legal  proceeding  that was settled in
WHX's favor,  offset by $1.8 million of expenses incurred in connection with the
pursuit of various recapitalization options. In 2004 the Company recognized $3.8
million in expenses  relating to an  arbitration  award  against the Company for
failure to remediate in a timely manner  environmental  conditions at a property
that H H sold in 2003  (Fairfield  East).  Also recorded in 2004 is a reserve of
$1.2 million related to a receivable  from HHRG. The 2003 results  included $4.1
million  associated  with the shut down of certain  H H  operations,  and a $3.5
million charge for employee separation and related expenses in the first quarter
of  2003.  This  $3.5  million  charge  related  to a  reduction  in  executive,
administrative and information technology personnel at H H. The 2003 period also
includes  a  $2.2  million  gain  on  insurance  proceeds.  The  balance  of the
fluctuation in selling, general and administrative expenses is increased selling
expenses associated with the increased sales levels noted above.

28

Operating  loss from  continuing  operations  for 2004 was $121.9  million
compared to a $151.2  million  operating loss for 2003. In the fourth quarter of
2004, the Company conducted the required annual goodwill  impairment review, and
with the assistance of a third party specialist, computed updated valuations for
each reporting unit using a discounted  cash flow approach and market  approach.
Based on the  results of this  review,  the  Company  recorded  a $79.8  million
non-cash goodwill impairment charge relating to the following businesses:  $34.2
million for specialty  tubing,  $19.0 million for precious  metal  plating,  and
$26.6 million for precious metal fabrication. The Company recorded these charges
because  the fair  value of  goodwill,  as  determined  by  estimated  cash flow
projections and data on market  comparables,  was less than the reporting units'
carrying  value.  The  decrease  in value  was  related  to a  reduction  in the
projection of future profitability,  increased working capital requirements,  an
increase in the discount rate, and the identification of previously unrecognized
intangibles.  The precious  metals  fabrication  reporting  unit  experienced  a
substantial  increase  in  working  capital  requirements  as a  result  of  the
unanticipated  loss of the precious metals consignment  facility.  Consequently,
the overall value of this business was diminished and the goodwill  attributable
to the precious metals  fabrication  reporting unit was impaired in 2004. Within
the precious  metal  plating  reporting  unit,  one of the  business  components
started experiencing  significant  operational issues in 2003. In addition, this
business component failed to achieve forecasted profitability from new programs.
Another  business  component  continued to struggle  beyond  expectations in its
efforts to  reestablish  its customer base and  historical  profitability.  As a
result of these additional  unanticipated changes in this business, the forecast
for the precious metal plating  business was revised and the remaining  goodwill
was impaired at the end of 2004. The Tubing  business also had an unexpected and
significant  decline in the gross  profit of one of its business  components  in
2004 as a result  of the loss of a  significant  customer  to a  competitor  and
delays in  launching  certain new  products.  As a result the  forecast for this
reporting unit declined, and additional goodwill was impaired.

      Also  included  in the 2004  operating  loss are $1.8  million of expenses
incurred in  connection  with the pursuit of various  recapitalization  options.
Such  expenses  represent  professional  fees  paid to  financial  advisors  and
attorneys  for  both WHX and the  preferred  stockholders'  committee.  The 2004
period was favorably  impacted by decreased  pension expense of $7.7 million and
the reversal of a $1.3 million  reserve for a legal  proceeding that was settled
in WHX's favor.

      The 2003  operating  results  include  a $48.1  million  non-cash  pension
curtailment and special  termination  benefit charge related to the consummation
of the WPC Group  Plan of  Reorganization  and a  non-cash  goodwill  impairment
charge of $67.3 million relating to the following segments: $29.0 for the tubing
segment and $38.3 million for precious metal plating. The Company recorded these
charges  because  the  fair  value of the  reporting  units  was  less  than the
reporting units' carrying value. For the Precious Metals Plating  business,  the
primary  reason  for the  impairment  charge  related  to a  facility  that  had
experienced  a fire in 2002 and was not  expected  to fully  recover for several
years.  As  a  result  of  unanticipated   competitor  discounting  and  ongoing
competitive  pressure  in the U.S.  automotive  industry,  the  dynamics of this
business changed,  resulting in a further reduction in forecasted cash flows for
the future, at the end of 2003. With respect to the Tubing reporting unit, there
was a general decline in business,  led by the  semiconductor  market,  combined
with  operational  issues  related to new  processes.  Also included in the 2003
operating  results is a $3.5 million charge for employee  separation and related
expenses  discussed  above,  a $2.2 million gain on insurance  proceeds,  a $3.2
million gain on the liquidation of certain precious metal inventories and a $1.3
million lower of cost or market charge related to precious metals inventory. The
balance  of the  increase  in  operating  income  is due to the  above-mentioned
increased  sales  levels  partially  offset by  production  inefficiencies  at a
stainless tubing group facility.

      There  were  no  material   environmental  expenses  recognized  in  2003.
Environmental  remediation  expenses  of $29.0  million  were  recorded in 2004.
Included in this amount is $26.3 million related to a facility in Fairfield CT..
In 2003,  the  Company  sold a portion  of its  former  Fairfield,  CT  facility
("Fairfield  East) for $8.0 million.  In connection  with this sale, the Company
was  responsible for demolition and  environmental  remediation of the site, the
estimated  cost of which was included in the loss on sale recorded in 2003.  H H
determined  that an increase in the reserve for  environmental  remediation  was
needed for Fairfield  East, in the amount of $28.3 million which was recorded in
the fourth  quarter of 2004.  This  increase  in the  reserve  was caused by the
discovery  of  underground  debris  and  soil  contaminants  that  had not  been
anticipated.  The Company has recovered  insurance in the amount of $2.0 million
in 2006  related to this site;  therefore  the net expense  included in the 2004
financial  statements is $26.3 million. An insurance  receivable of $2.0 million
is included on the  consolidated  balance  sheet.  Additionally  $1.1 million in
environmental remediation expenses were recorded in 2004 for a location in North
Attleboro,  Massachusetts.  The balance of the expense  relates to several other
locations.

      Gain on disposal of assets  amounted to $0.6 million in 2004. A balance of
$1.0 million owed for the sale of the  Fairfield,  CT (Fairfield  East) property
was fully  reserved and is included as a loss on  disposition of assets in 2004.
Offsetting  this  loss on  disposal  of  assets  is the  gain on the  sale of an
aircraft of $1.7 million. In 2003, H H sold its former Fairfield,  CT (Fairfield
East) facility for $8.0 million resulting in a loss on the sale of $3.9 million.
Refer to Item 3 - Legal  Proceedings  for  discussion of  environmental  matters
arising subsequent to the sale of this property.

      Interest  expense in 2004  increased  $6.5 million,  to $25.5 million from
$19.0  million  in 2003.  This  increase  was due to  increased  interest  rates
partially offset by lower borrowings.  Also included in interest expense in 2004
is a $1.8 million fee in

29

connection  with  the  assignment  of  an  H H  term  loan.  The  assignment  is
anticipated to result in an annual interest savings of $2.8 million.

      As part of the  amended  Chapter  11  Plan of  Reorganization  for the WPC
Group,  WHX  had  agreed  conditionally  to  provide  additional  funds  to WPSC
amounting  to $20.0  million.  As a result  of WHX's  obligation  to fund  $20.0
million to WPC, WHX had recorded a $20.0 million charge as an equity loss in WPC
in the  consolidated  statement of  operations  for the year ended  December 31,
2002. On August 1, 2003, upon consummation of the WPC POR, WHX contributed $20.0
million  in  cash to the  reorganized  company  and  received  a  $10.0  million
subordinated note from WPSC. This note was fully reserved in 2003. In July 2004,
WHX  realized  $5.6  million  upon the sale of the  note to a third  party  and,
accordingly,  the reserve was  reversed  and $5.6  million was recorded in other
income in the second  quarter of 2004.  Also  included in other  income are $0.4
million of net investment earnings.

      In 2003 other  income  was $1.8  million.  This  included  net  investment
earnings of $6.5 million, partially offset by a $0.6 million loss on an interest
rate swap, and other expenses of $4.1million.

      In  connection  with the  refinancing  of the H H  Senior  Secured  Credit
Facility in March 2004,  the Company wrote off deferred  financing  fees of $1.2
million.  This charge is classified as loss on early retirement of debt. In 2003
WHX  recognized  a $3.0 million gain on the early  retirement  of $17.7  million
principal amount of 10 1/2% Senior Notes.

      Loss  from  discontinued  operations  was $18.5  million  in 2004 and $8.7
million in 2003. In 2004 the Company  evaluated the current  operating plans and
current and  forecasted  operating  results of H H's wire   cable  business.  In
accordance  with  Statement  of  Financial   Accounting  Standards  Number  144,
"Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived  Assets" ("SFAS 144"),  the
Company  determined that there were indicators of impairment as of June 30, 2004
based on  continued  operating  losses,  deteriorating  margins,  and rising raw
material  costs.  An estimate of future cash flows indicated that as of June 30,
2004 cash flows  would be  insufficient  to support  the  carrying  value of the
long-term assets of the business. Accordingly, these assets were written down to
their  estimated fair value by recording a non-cash asset  impairment  charge of
$3.9 million in the second quarter.  In November 2004, H H announced that it had
signed a non-binding  letter of intent to sell its wire business and that it was
negotiating the sale of its steel cable business. The decision to sell was based
on continued  operating  losses,  deteriorating  margins and rising raw material
costs  experienced  by these  businesses.  Based on the proposed  terms of these
transactions the Company recorded an additional asset impairment  charge of $4.3
million.  At that time H H stated that if it were unable to complete these sales
it would  consider the closure of these  operations.  On January 13,  2005,  H H
determined  that a sale of these  operations  could  not be  completed  on terms
satisfactory to H H.  Accordingly,  H H decided to permanently  close the wire  
cable businesses. The affected operations are located in Cockeysville,  Maryland
and Oriskany, New York.

      The  Company  recorded a valuation  allowance  relating to the Federal net
deferred tax assets since it is the opinion of management that it is more likely
than not that such tax benefits will not be realized in future periods. In 2004,
a tax  provision of $2.2  million was  recorded for foreign and state taxes,  as
well as  additional  Federal  deferred tax  liabilities  relating to  intangible
assets with an indefinite life.

      In 2003 a tax  provision  of  $13.2  million  was  recorded.  The  Company
recorded a valuation  allowance  related to the Federal net  deferred tax assets
since it is the opinion of management  that it is more likely than not that such
tax  benefits  will not be  realized  in future  periods.  The  charge  for this
valuation  allowance was $11.6 million.  The balance of the provision relates to
foreign and state taxes.

      Net loss applicable to common stock for 2004 amounted to $159.9 million or
$29.38 per share of common stock after adjusting for preferred stock  dividends,
as compared  to a net loss  applicable  to common  stock of $179.3  million,  or
$33.35 per basic  share of common  stock after  adjusting  for  preferred  stock
dividends.

      The  comments  that  follow  compare  revenues  and  operating  income  by
operating segment for the years ended 2004 and 2003:

PRECIOUS METALS

      Sales for the Precious  Metals segment  increased $20.7 million from $84.6
million  in 2003 to $105.3  million  in 2004.  Our  precious  metal  fabrication
business  accounted for $12.7  million of the increase.  While 12% of the growth
was from higher metal prices,  the balance was due to growth at current accounts
and increased market share.  The Precious Metal Plating  business  accounted for
$8.0 million of the increase primarily from the growth in automotive sensors.

      Operating  loss for the Precious  Metals segment was $44.8 million in 2004
compared to an operating loss of $36.2 million in 2003. The 2004 period includes
a $45.6 million  non-cash charge for goodwill  impairment.  The Company recorded
these  charges  because the fair value of goodwill,  as  determined by estimated
cash flow  projections,  was less than the reporting  units' carrying value. The
decrease  in value  was  related  to a  reduction  in the  projection  of future
profitability, increased working capital

30

requirements  and an increase in the discount rate.  The 2003 period  includes a
$38.4 million  non-cash charge for goodwill  impairment,  a $3.2 million gain on
the liquidation of certain precious metal inventories and a $2.2 million gain on
insurance proceeds.  Also included in 2003 is a non cash lower of cost or market
charge of $1.3 million  related to precious metal  inventory and $1.1 million of
severance  related  expenses  allocated to this  segment  from the  reduction in
salaried staff at H H. The 2003 period also includes  approximately $2.9 million
of costs  associated with the  restructuring  program  announced in 2002.  These
costs were not  included in the  restructuring  charge  recorded in 2002.  After
considering  the above,  the balance of the  improvement in operating  income in
2004 is related to the  above-mentioned  increase in sales  partially  offset by
higher raw material costs.

TUBING

      Sales for the Tubing segment increased $18.5 million from $85.5 million in
2003 to $104.0 million in 2004. Of the $18.5 million  increase,  $7.7 million is
related to market  share  gains $2.9  million is related to  increased  price of
steel in the appliance  segment.  Stronger  demand in  petrochemical,  military,
aircraft  markets  as they  relate to H H's  Tubing  businesses  increased  $5.5
million,  and price  increases  to offset  higher  steel costs  account for $2.1
million.

      Operating loss for the Tubing segment was $30.8 million in 2004. Operating
loss for 2003 was  $27.4  million.  The 2004  period  includes  a $34.2  million
non-cash  charge for  goodwill  impairment.  The  Company  recorded  this charge
because  the fair  value of  goodwill,  as  determined  by  estimated  cash flow
projections,  was less than the reporting unit's carrying value. The decrease in
value was  related to a reduction  in the  projection  of future  profitability,
increased  working capital  requirements,  and an increase in the discount rate.
The 2003 period includes a non-cash goodwill  impairment charge of $29.0 million
and $1.5 million of severance  related  expenses  allocated to this segment from
the reduction in salaried staff at H H. Excluding goodwill  impairment  charges,
2004  had a  $1.8  million  improvement  in  operating  income  over  2003.  The
improvements  experienced  by this  segment  are  directly  related to the sales
improvements   discussed  above.  The  improvements  were  partially  offset  by
production inefficiencies and the loss of a major customer at a stainless tubing
group facility. These declines were offset by the improved operating performance
at the Company's other tubing facilities.

ENGINEERED MATERIALS

      Sales for the Engineered  Materials  segment  increased $42.9 million from
$119.8  million in 2003 to $162.7  million in 2004.  This  increase in sales was
primarily due to increased  sales prices of $15.0 million to offset rising steel
prices, a stronger  commercial  construction market of $14.3 million and, market
share gains of $14.1 million.

      Operating  income  increased  by $8.0 million from $8.4 million in 2003 to
$16.4 million in 2004. The increase in operating  income is primarily due to the
increase  in sales noted  above,  partially  offset by  increased  steel  costs.
Included in 2003 is $0.9 million of severance related expenses allocated to this
segment from the reduction in salaried staff at H H.

UNALLOCATED CORPORATE EXPENSES

      Unallocated  corporate  expenses  decreased  from $15.7 million in 2003 to
$8.2 million in 2004.  This decrease is primarily  related to decreased  pension
expense of $7.7 million,  lower  professional  fees, the  termination of the WPN
management  agreement  in January of 2004,  and the  reversal of a $1.3  million
reserve for a legal proceeding.  These  improvements were partially offset by an
increase in salary and  benefits,  insurance  costs and $1.8 million of expenses
incurred in connection with the pursuit of various recapitalization options.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

BANKRUPTCY FILING AND PLAN OF REORGANIZATION OF WHX

      On March 7, 2005,  WHX filed a  voluntary  petition  to  reorganize  under
Chapter 11 of the United States  Bankruptcy Code with the Bankruptcy  Court. WHX
continued  to operate  its  businesses  and own and manage its  properties  as a
debtor-in-possession  under  the  jurisdiction  of the  Bankruptcy  Court and in
accordance  with the  applicable  provisions  of the  Bankruptcy  Code  until it
emerged from protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on July 29, 2005
(see below).

      WHX's  primary  business  is H H,  a  diversified  manufacturing  company.
Neither H H, nor any of WHX's other  subsidiaries or affiliates were included in
WHX's bankruptcy  filing. All of H H's operating units conducted business in the
ordinary course during the  bankruptcy.  WHX's  bankruptcy  filing was primarily
intended  to reduce  WHX's debt,  simplify  its  capital  structure,  reduce its
overall cost of capital and provide it with better access to capital markets.

31

On March 7, 2005, WHX also filed a proposed Plan of  Reorganization of WHX
Corporation  and a related  proposed  disclosure  statement  with the Bankruptcy
Court.  On June 7, 2005, WHX filed its first amended Chapter 11 Plan. On June 8,
2005 WHX filed its second amended Disclosure Statement.

      On July 21, 2005, WHX's Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization was confirmed by
the Bankruptcy Court. The Plan became effective on July 29, 2005.

      The  bankruptcy  filing  created an event of default  under the  Indenture
governing  WHX's Senior Notes.  Under the terms of the Senior Notes, as a result
of the bankruptcy  filing, the entire unpaid principal and accrued interest (and
any other  additional  amounts)  became  immediately due and payable without any
action on the part of the  trustee or the note  holders.  The  principal  amount
outstanding  under the  Senior  Notes at March 7, 2005 was  approximately  $92.8
million. Accrued interest to March 7, 2005 was approximately $3.8 million.

      The  following is a summary of certain  material  features of the Plan and
the Confirmation Order. On the Effective Date:

o     All of WHX's outstanding securities, including WHX's pre-bankruptcy filing
      common stock,  Series A preferred  stock,  Series B preferred stock and 10
      1/2% Senior Notes were deemed  cancelled and annulled  without further act
      or action.

o     In full and complete satisfaction of all such claims,  holders of WHX's 10
      1/2% Senior Notes received  9,200,000 shares of common stock  representing
      their prorated share of the reorganized  company.  These shares  represent
      92% of the equity in the reorganized company.

o     In  full  and  complete  satisfaction  of all  such  interests,  Series  A
      preferred   stockholders   received   366,322   shares  of  common   stock
      representing  their prorated share of the reorganized  company and 344,658
      warrants to purchase common stock of the reorganized company,  exercisable
      at $11.20 per share and expiring on February 28, 2008.

o     In  full  and  complete  satisfaction  of all  such  interests,  Series  B
      preferred   stockholders   received   433,678   shares  of  common   stock
      representing  their prorated share of the reorganized  company and 408,030
      warrants to purchase common stock of the reorganized company,  exercisable
      at $11.20 per share and expiring on February 28, 2008.

o     Holders  of  WHX's   pre-bankruptcy   filing  common  stock   received  no
      distribution under the Plan.

      The  common  stock  received  by  the  Series  A and  Series  B  preferred
stockholders,  collectively,  represents  8% of the  equity  in the  reorganized
company.   The  warrants   issued  to  the  Series  A  and  Series  B  preferred
stockholders,  collectively, represent the right to purchase an additional 7% of
the equity of the reorganized company after giving effect to the exercise of the
warrants.

      On the  Effective  Date,  all of the  assets  of WHX  were  vested  in the
reorganized  company  free and clear of all liens,  causes of  actions,  claims,
encumbrances,  equity interests,  and interests against,  in, or on such assets,
except as explicitly provided in the Plan.

      The reorganization  value of the assets of WHX immediately before the date
of  confirmation  of the Plan was  greater  than the total of all  post-petition
liabilities and allowed claims.  Despite the ownership change,  the Company does
not qualify for Fresh-Start  reporting in accordance with the American Institute
of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 90-7, "Financial Reporting
by  Entities  in  Reorganization   Under  the  Bankruptcy  Code"  ("SOP  90-7").
Accordingly,  the  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  reorganized  company  upon
emergence from bankruptcy are stated at their historical values.

      Upon its emergence from  bankruptcy on July 29, 2005,  WHX  experienced an
ownership  change as defined by Section 382 of the Internal  Revenue Code, which
imposes   annual   limitations   on  the   utilization  of  net  operating  loss
carryforwards  post ownership change.  The Company believes it qualifies for the
bankruptcy  exception  to  the  general  Section  382  limitations.  Under  this
exception,  the  annual  limitation  imposed by Section  382  resulting  from an
ownership  change will not apply,  instead the net operating loss  carryforwards
must be  reduced  by  certain  interest  expense  paid to  creditors  who became
stockholders  as a result  of the  bankruptcy  reorganization.  Thus,  WHX's net
operating loss  carryforwards  of $116.0 million as of December 31, 2004 will be
reduced  by  approximately   $31.0  million  to  approximately   $85.0  million.
Additionally,  if WHX should undergo a second  ownership change within two years
of the date of change  as a result  of the  reorganization,  its  remaining  net
operating losses would be effectively reduced to zero. Accordingly,  in order to
avoid subsequent  ownership  changes,  WHX's new charter contains a 5% ownership
limit pursuant to which certain transfers of WHX's shares will be limited.

      Since the Effective  Date,  H H has continued to conduct its businesses in
the ordinary course.

32

BANKRUPTCY FILING AND PLAN OF REORGANIZATION OF THE WPC GROUP

      A Chapter  11 Plan of  Reorganization  ("WPC  POR") was  confirmed  by the
Bankruptcy  Court on June 18,  2003  and was  consummated  on  August  1,  2003.
Pursuant to the terms of the WPC POR,  among other things,  the WPC Group ceased
to be a subsidiary of WHX effective  August 1, 2003,  and from that date forward
has been an independent company.

      As part of the WPC POR, WHX agreed to make certain contributions (the "WHX
Contributions") to the WPC Group.  Under the WHX Contributions,  WHX forgave the
repayment of its claims  against the WPC Group of  approximately  $39.0  million
and,  additionally,  contributed to the WPC Group $20 million of cash, for which
WHX received a note in the amount of $10.0 million.  The note was fully reserved
upon  receipt.  In July 2004 WHX realized $5.6 million upon the sale of the note
to a third party and, accordingly, the reserve was reversed and $5.6 million was
recorded in other income.

      On  March  6,  2003,  the  PBGC  published  its  Notice  of  Determination
("Notice") and on March 7, 2003 filed a Summons and Complaint  ("Complaint")  in
United States  District Court for the Southern  District of New York seeking the
involuntary   termination   of  the  WHX  Pension  Plan  (the  "WHX  Plan"),   a
defined-benefit  pension plan  sponsored by the Company  that  provides  pension
benefits to active and retired  employees of WHX and H H and certain benefits to
active and retired employees or members of the WPC Group. WHX filed an answer to
this  complaint on March 27, 2003,  contesting  the PBGC's  action.  On July 24,
2003, the Company entered into an agreement among the PBGC,  Wheeling-Pittsburgh
Corporation ("WPC"),  Wheeling-Pittsburgh  Steel Corporation  ("WPSC"),  and the
United  Steelworkers of America,  AFL-CIO-CLC  ("USWA") in settlement of matters
relating to the PBGC V. WHX  CORPORATION,  Civil Action No.  03-CV-1553,  in the
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York ("Termination
Litigation"), in which the PBGC was seeking to terminate the WHX Plan. Under the
settlement,  among  other  things,  WHX agreed  (a) that the WHX Plan,  as it is
currently  constituted,  is a single  employer  pension plan,  (b) to contribute
funds to the WHX Plan equal to moneys spent (if any) by WHX or its affiliates to
purchase  WHX  10.5%  Senior  Notes  ("Senior  Notes")  in  future  open  market
transactions,  and (c) to grant to the PBGC a pari passu security interest of up
to $50.0  million in the event WHX  obtained  any future  financing on a secured
basis or provided any security or collateral for the Senior Notes.

      Also under the  settlement,  all parties  agreed that as of the  effective
date of the WPC POR,  (a) no shutdowns  had occurred at any WPC Group  facility,
(b) no member of the WPC Group is a  participating  employer under the WHX Plan,
(c)  continuous  service for WPC Group  employees  was broken,  (d) no WPC Group
employees will become  entitled to "Rule of 65" or "70/80"  Retirement  Benefits
(collectively,  "Shutdown  Benefits")  by reason of events  occurring  after the
effective  date of the WPC POR, and (e) the WHX Plan would provide for a limited
early retirement option to allow up to 650 WPSC  USWA-represented  employees the
right to receive retirement benefits based on the employee's years of service as
of  July  31,  2003  with a  monthly  benefit  equal  to $40  multiplied  by the
employee's years of service.

      Finally,  under  the  settlement,  the PBGC  agreed  (a)  that,  after the
effective  date of the WPC POR, if it  terminates  the WHX Plan at least one day
prior  to a WPC  Group  facility  shutdown,  WHX  shall  be  released  from  any
additional  liability to the PBGC resulting  from the shutdown,  (b) to withdraw
its claims in the WPC Bankruptcy Proceedings, and (c) to dismiss the Termination
Litigation.

      A pre-tax,  non-cash charge for the cost of early retirement incentives of
$11.5  million  was  recognized  in the  third  quarter  of  2003  as a  special
termination  benefit  in  accordance  with  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 88,  "Employers'  Accounting for Settlement  and  Curtailments  of
Defined  Benefit  Pension Plans and for  Termination  Benefits"  ("SFAS 88"). In
addition,  a  curtailment  occurred  as a result of the break in service for WPC
Group employees that resulted in a pre-tax,  non-cash charge of $36.6 million in
the third quarter of 2003, also pursuant to SFAS 88.

      For  WHX  Plan  funding  purposes,  the  impact  of the  changes  was  not
recognized  until the next actuarial  valuation  which occurred as of January 1,
2004. The funding requirements depend on many factors including those identified
above as well as future investment  returns on WHX Plan assets. WHX was required
to make a  contribution  to the WHX Plan of $1.2 and  $6.0  million  in 2005 and
2004, respectively.

      The agreement  with the PBGC also contains the provision that WHX will not
contest a future action by the PBGC to terminate the WHX Plan in connection with
a future WPC Group facility shutdown.  In the event that such a plan termination
occurs,  the PBGC has agreed to  release  WHX from any  claims  relating  to the
shutdown. However, there may be PBGC claims related to unfunded liabilities that
may exist as a result of a termination of the WHX Plan.

      As a  result  of the  consummation  of the WPC POR  and  the  related  WHX
Contributions, the remaining balance in the loss in excess of investment account
of $0.5 million was reversed into income in the third quarter of 2003.

OVERVIEW

      For 2005,  cash  flows  provided  by (used in)  operating,  investing  and
financing activities for 2005 totaled ($5.0) million,  ($26.7) million and $14.9
million,  respectively.  Losses from  operations  adjusted  for non cash and non
operating items were a use of $15.2 million.

33

Working capital  accounts  (excluding  cash,  short-term  borrowings and current
maturities  of long term debt) used $1.2 million of funds.  Accounts  receivable
used $9.7  million,  inventories  used $2.8  million,  trade  payables and other
liabilities provided $11.7 million.  Other current assets provided $1.5 million.
WHX paid $1.2 million in pension contributions.  Other non working capital items
used $1.8 million.

      At December 31, 2005 accounts receivable totaled $57.2 million compared to
$48.0 million at December 31, 2004, an increase of $9.2 million. The increase in
accounts  receivable reflects the strong sales levels for the three-month period
ended December 31, 2005 when compared to the fourth  quarter of 2004.  Sales for
the fourth  quarter of 2005 were $99.2  million as compared to $84.2 million for
the fourth quarter of 2004.

      At December 31, 2005  inventory  totaled $61.0  million  compared to $58.3
million at December  31,  2004,  an increase of $2.7  million.  The  increase in
inventory is primarily  related to increased  prices and  quantities of precious
metals.

      H H's revolving credit  facilities  existing at December 31, 2003 ("Senior
Secured Credit  Facilities") were scheduled to mature on July 31, 2004. On March
31, 2004, H H obtained new financing  agreements to replace and repay the Senior
Secured Credit Facilities. The new financing agreements included a $70.0 million
(subsequently  reduced to $62.9 million)  revolving  credit facility and a $22.2
million Term A Loan with Wachovia Capital Finance,  formerly Congress  Financial
Corporation,  as agent and a lender ("Wachovia  Facilities") and a $71.0 million
Term B Loan  with  Ableco  Finance  LLP  ("Ableco").  Concurrently  with the new
financing  agreements,  WHX loaned $43.5 million to H H to repay,  in part,  the
Senior Secured Credit  Facilities.  Such loan is  subordinated to the loans from
Wachovia  and  Canpartners.  On  October  29,  2004 the  Ableco  Term B Loan was
assigned to Canpartners  Investments  IV, LLC  ("Canpartners").  On September 8,
2005, the Term B Loan was assigned to Steel Partners II, L.P. ("Steel").

      The new  revolving  credit  facility  provided for up to $62.9  million of
borrowings  dependent on the levels of and  collateralized  by eligible accounts
receivable  and  inventory.  The new  revolving  credit  facility  provided  for
interest at LIBOR plus 2.75% or the U.S.  Base rate plus 1.00%.  An amendment to
the facility on December  29, 2004  lowered the margins on the revolver  loan to
LIBOR plus 2.25% or the U.S. Base Rate plus 0.5%. The Wachovia Facilities mature
on March 31, 2007. The Term A Loan is collateralized  by eligible  equipment and
real  estate,  and  provided  for interest at LIBOR plus 3.25% or the prime rate
plus 1.5%. An amendment to the facility on December 29, 2004 lowered the margins
on the  Term A Loan to  LIBOR  plus  2.5%  or the  U.S.  Base  Rate  plus  .75%.
Borrowings under the Wachovia  Facilities are  collateralized  by first priority
security  interests in and liens upon all present and future stock and assets of
H H and its  subsidiaries,  including  all contract  rights,  deposit  accounts,
investment property,  inventory,  equipment, real property, and all products and
proceeds  thereof.  The  principal  of the  Term A Loan is  payable  in  monthly
installments  of $0.3  million.  The Wachovia  Facilities  contain  affirmative,
negative,  and financial covenants (including minimum EBITDA,  maximum leverage,
and fixed charge coverage,  and restrictions on cash  distributions  that can be
made to WHX).  On May 20,  2005,  H H entered  into an amendment to the Loan and
Security Agreement with Wachovia ("Wachovia Amendment").  The Wachovia Amendment
provided for amendments to certain financial covenants,  an additional equipment
loan of up to $3  million,  as well as certain  other terms and  conditions.  On
September 8, 2005,  H H entered  into an  amendment to the Wachovia  Facilities.
This  amendment  provides  for,  among  other  things,  (i) the  revision of the
calculation  of components of the borrowing base which results in an increase in
availability and (ii) the increase of the current outstanding amount of the term
loan to $22.2 million from $16.0 million. On December 31, 2005 and September 30,
2006, H H had  approximately  $7.7 million and $11.7 million,  respectively,  of
funds available under the revolving credit facility.

      On December  29,  2005,  H H entered  into an  amendment  to the  Wachovia
Facilities. This amendment provides for, among other things, (i) the increase of
the borrowing base by $3.5 million  through January 31, 2006, (ii) the waiver of
certain  defaults and (iii)  certain  related  amendments to the  covenants.  On
January 24,  2006,  H H entered  into a consent and  amendment  to the  Wachovia
Facilities.  This  consent  and  amendment  was made in  connection  with a loan
agreement entered by H H's  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  OMG, Inc., with Sovereign
Bank dated as of January 24, 2006  collateralized  by a mortgage on OMG,  Inc.'s
real property  pursuant to which an $8.0 million term loan was made available to
OMG, Inc. This consent and amendment provides for, among other things,  amending
certain  definitions to reflect the loan agreement  entered into by OMG, Inc. On
March 31, 2006, H H entered into an amendment to the Wachovia  Facilities.  This
amendment provided for, among other things,  consent to the increase of the Term
B Loan on the  same  date  in the  principal  amount  of  $9.0  million  and the
prepayment of a portion of H H's subordinated promissory note issued to WHX (the
"WHX Note") in the principal amount of $9.0 million.

      The Term B Loan matures on March 31, 2007 and provides for annual payments
based on 40% of excess  cash  flow as  defined  in the  agreement.  Interest  is
payable  monthly at the Prime Rate plus 4.0%. At no time shall the Prime Rate of
interest  be below  4.0%.  The Term B Facility  has a second  priority  security
interest in and lien on all assets of H H, subject only to the prior lien of the
Wachovia Facilities.  The Term B facility contains  affirmative,  negative,  and
financial covenants (including minimum EBITDA, maximum leverage and fixed charge
coverage,  restrictions  on  cash  distributions  that  can be  made  to WHX and
cross-default provisions with the Wachovia Facilities). At December 31, 2005 the
net liabilities of H H amounted to $33.5 million, all of which was restricted as
to the  payment  of  dividends  to WHX.  In the  second  quarter  of  2005,  H H
determined that it would not have

34

been compliant with certain financial  covenants at June 30, 2005.  Accordingly,
on May 20,  2005,  H H  entered  into an  amendment  to the  Loan  and  Security
Agreement with Canpartners ("Canpartners Amendment").  The Canpartners Amendment
provided for amendments to certain financial  covenants as well as certain other
terms and conditions.  On September 8, 2005, H H completed the assignment of its
Term B Loan from Canpartners,  to Steel, as agent and lender.  Substantially all
of the terms and conditions of the Term B Loan continue without amendment. Steel
is the beneficial holder of 5,029,793 shares of WHX's common stock, representing
approximately  50% of the  outstanding  shares.  Warren  Lichtenstein,  the sole
executive  officer and managing  member of Steel Partners,  L.L.C.,  the general
partner of Steel Partners II, L.P., is the Chairman of the Board of WHX.

      On December  29,  2005,  H H entered  into an amendment to its Term B Loan
with Steel. This amendment provides for, among other things, (i) the increase of
the Term B Loan by $10  million,  to $81  million,  (ii) the  waiver of  certain
defaults and (iii) certain related  amendments to the covenants.  On January 24,
2006, H H entered into a consent and amendment to its Term B Loan.  This consent
and  amendment  was  made in  connection  with a  five-year  loan  and  security
agreement entered by H H's  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  OMG, Inc., with Sovereign
Bank dated as of January 24, 2006  collateralized  by a mortgage on OMG,  Inc.'s
real property  pursuant to which an $8.0 million term loan was made available to
OMG, Inc. This consent and amendment  provides for, among other things,  (i) the
amendment of certain  definitions to reflect the loan agreement  entered into by
OMG, Inc. and (ii) the increase of the  indebtedness  covenant,  each to reflect
the loan agreement entered into by OMG, Inc.

      On March 31, 2006, H H entered into an amendment to the Term B Loan.  This
amendment  provided for, among other things,  an additional loan of $9.0 million
to H H and its  subsidiaries  to be used to make a prepayment on the WHX Note of
up to such amount, which prepayments and additional loans were made at March 31,
2006.

      In March 2004,  H H's  wholly  owned  Danish  subsidiary  entered into new
financing  agreements  to replace and repay  existing  debt that had been issued
under a  multi-currency  facility  within the then  existing H H Senior  Secured
Credit Facilities.  The new Danish facilities are with a Danish bank and include
a  revolving  credit  facility  and term loans.  At December  31, 2005 there was
approximately $5.4 million outstanding under the term loans.

      On October 26, 2005, WHX CS Corp.  ("CS"),  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary of
WHX, entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the "Stock Purchase Agreement") by
and between CS and Steel.  Pursuant to the  Agreement,  CS sold 1,000  shares of
Series A Preferred  Stock,  par value $0.01 per share (the "Steel  Shares"),  to
Steel.  Steel paid a purchase price of $5,100 per share or an aggregate purchase
price of $5.1 million.  The Steel Shares accrue dividends at 6.0% per annum. The
Steel  Shares  were  required to be  redeemed  by CS for $5.1  million  plus all
accrued and unpaid  dividends  on October 26, 2006 or, at the sole option of the
Board of  Directors  of CS,  on any  earlier  date.  However,  there was no such
redemption  on that date.  The  proceeds of the sale were used by CS to purchase
1,898,337 shares of Cosine Communications, Inc.

      In the Fourth Quarter of 2004 H H acquired  Protechno s.a., a manufacturer
of brazing alloys and fluxes, located in Riberac, France, for $2.4 million. This
operating entity is included in the Precious Metals segment.

      In 2005, 2004, and 2003, $20.4, $9.4 and $9.8 million, respectively,  were
spent on capital  improvements in H H.  Approximately  $10.0 million of the 2005
expenditures relate to a plant expansion at our fastener facility in Agawam, MA.

      In 2003 WHX purchased an aircraft for $19.3 million,  which it sold in the
first  quarter of 2004 for $19.3  million.  The  aircraft  was included in other
current  assets  on WHX's  consolidated  balance  sheet at  December  31,  2003.
Additionally,  WHX sold another aircraft in the second quarter of 2004. The sale
of this aircraft provided $7.0 million in cash and resulted in a pre-tax gain of
$1.7 million.

      WHX  had  received  a $10.0  million  subordinated  note  from  WPSC  upon
consummation  of the WHX POR, which had been fully  reserved.  In July 2004, WHX
realized  $5.6  million  upon  the  sale  of the  note  to a  third  party  and,
accordingly,  the reserve was  reversed  and $5.6  million was recorded in other
income in the second quarter of 2004.

      The estimated  minimum  funding  requirements  for the WHX Pension Plan in
2006,  2007,  2008,  and through  2011 are $20.6  million,  $2.7  million,  $0.0
million,  and $16.7 million  (which  amounts  reflect the recent  passage of the
Pension  Protection Act of 2006 by Congress which had the effect of changing the
minimum funding requirements),  respectively. At the present time we do not have
funds available to make the 2006 minimum funding  requirements.  We have applied
to the IRS for a funding  waiver for the 2005 and 2006 plan  years,  but the IRS
has since  limited this request to the 2005 plan year.  If granted,  this waiver
would change our minimum funding  requirements  to $9.9 million,  $10.0 million,
$7.9 million and $18.3 million (which amounts  reflect the recent passage of the
Pension  Protection  Act of 2006 by  Congress) in 2006,  2007,  2008 and through
2011, respectively.  WHX is required to make quarterly funding payments for each
plan year. In addition,  the remaining  minimum  required  contribution for such
earlier year is required to be made by September 15 of the  following  year.  On
September 15, 2006, WHX was required to make a minimum contribution for the 2005
plan  year in the  amount  of $15.5  million.  However,  WHX did not  make  that
contribution due to liquidity  issues.  If the funding waiver described above is
granted, such payment would no longer be due. WHX has made contributions in 2006
in the aggregate amount of $9.9 million  (including a payment of $5.0 million on
or about October 30, 2006). The penalties for

35

failure to make timely  payment of the 2005 minimum  funding  requirement  could
result in penalties of 10% of such deficiency,  as well as an additional penalty
of 100% of such amount under certain circumstances.  In addition, the failure to
make  timely  quarterly  funding  payments  could  result in the  assessment  of
interest. The PBGC filed a lien against the assets of H H to secure, among other
things,  the funding  deficiency,  and on October 20, 2006  entered  into a Lien
Subordination  Agreement with Wachovia.  On October 26, 2006, WHX entered into a
non-binding letter of intent with the PBGC, which provides,  among other things,
for the  PBGC  to  recommend  to the IRS  that it  approve  the  funding  waiver
application for the WHX Pension Plan for the 2005 plan year,  which amount would
be amortized over five years,  and for the PBGC to receive  certain  subordinate
liens on the  assets of H H and the  Company  to secure  the  waiver  amount and
certain  other agreed  obligations.  WHX and the PBGC are  presently  working to
prepare definitive documentation relating to the PBGC LOI. If the funding waiver
is not granted, or definitive documentation is not finalized and executed, there
is no  assurance  we will be able to  obtain  the  funds  required  to make  the
payments.

      As of  December  31,  2005,  the  Company  had  consolidated  cash of $4.1
million, as compared to $20.8 million of consolidated cash at December 31, 2004.

      As a  result  of  the  termination  of a tax  sharing  agreement  and  the
settlement of certain  inter-company  claims between WHX and the WPC Group,  WHX
was able to utilize  significant  income tax loss carry forwards to minimize its
actual income tax payments, so long as the WPC Group remained as a member of the
WHX  consolidated  tax  return.  The WPC group  ceased to be a member of the WHX
consolidated  tax return effective August 1, 2003. In fiscal years 2004 and 2003
the Company  recorded a valuation  allowance  related to the Federal tax benefit
associated  with the net deferred tax asset due to the  uncertainty of realizing
these benefits in the future.

      As of December 31, 2005,  the total of the  Company's  future  contractual
commitments,  including  the  repayment of debt  obligations  is  summarized  as
follows (in thousands):

                                                                                   Payments Due by Period
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Contractual                                                                                       2011 and
                       Obligations                            Total           2006       2007 - 2008    2009 - 2010     thereafter
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Long-term debt (1),(2)                                     $    98,643    $    93,754    $       935    $       927    $     3,027
Short-term debt (1)                                             45,980         45,980             --             --             --
Mandatory redeemable preferred stock                             5,100          5,100             --             --             --
Expected interest payments                                      17,524         11,395          3,980            475          1,674
Operating leases                                                 6,653          2,361          2,786          1,506             --
Pension and other retirement benefits contributions (3)         46,378         21,650          4,635         16,351          3,742

      (1)   Interest  on  variable-rate  debt is  based  on  current  prevailing
            interest rates.

      (2)   See Note 12 to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in
            this Form 10-K.  With the exception of Other H H debt,  all debt has
            been  classified as current due to  noncompliance  with certain debt
            covenants.  Should the debt holders choose not to demand payments as
            a result of  noncompliance  with certain  covenants,  long term debt
            maturing in each of the next five years is as follows:  2006 $4,458;
            2007 and 2008 $90,231; 2009 and 2010 $927; and thereafter $3,027.

      (3)   Pension  contributions  include all plans as  discussed in Note 6 of
            the Consolidated Financial Statements. The required contributions to
            the  WHX   pension   plan  does  not  reflect  any  changes  in  the
            contribution  levels which are subject to receipt of the IRS funding
            waiver.

      It is not the Company's usual business  practice to enter into off-balance
sheet  arrangements  such as  guarantees  on loans  and  financial  commitments,
indemnification arrangements, and retained interests in assets transferred to an
unconsolidated entity for securitization purposes. Consequently, the Company has
no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a
material  current  or  future  effect on its  financial  condition,  changes  in
financial  condition,  revenues or expenses,  results of operations,  liquidity,
capital expenditures or capital resources.

      At December 31, 2004 there were 2.6 million shares of Series A Convertible
Preferred  Stock and 2.9 million shares of Series B Convertible  Preferred Stock
outstanding.  Dividends  on  these  shares  were  cumulative  and  were  payable
quarterly in arrears,  in an amount equal to $3.25 per annum per share of Series
A and $3.75 per  annum  per  share of  Series  B.  Pursuant  to the terms of the
Supplemental  Indenture  to the Senior  Notes,  WHX was  restricted  from paying
dividends on this  Preferred  Stock.  Dividends on the Preferred  Stock have not
been paid since the dividend  payment of October 31, 2000. At December 31, 2004,
preferred dividends in arrears totaled $82.6 million.  As previously  described,
pursuant to the Plan all shares of preferred  stock and accrued  dividends  were
deemed cancelled and annulled on the Effective Date.

      In addition to the above  obligations,  certain customers and suppliers of
the  Precious  Metal  Segment  choose to do  business  on a "pool"  basis.  Such
customers or suppliers  furnish  precious  metal to H H for return in fabricated
form (customer  metal) or for

36

purchase from or return to the supplier.  When the customer's  precious metal is
returned in fabricated form, the customer is charged a fabrication  charge.  The
value of  consigned  precious  metal is not  included in the  Company's  balance
sheet. To the extent that the quantity of customer and supplier  precious metal,
as well as precious metal owned by H H, does not meet operating  needs,  H H can
purchase or lease  precious  metal.  At December 31, 2003,  1,605,000  ounces of
silver  and  14,617  ounces  of gold  were  leased  to H H  under a  consignment
facility.  This  consignment  facility was  terminated on March 30, 2004 and H H
purchased $15.0 million of precious metal at that point in time.

POST-EMERGENCE LIQUIDITY

      In March 2005, WHX filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the
United States Bankruptcy Code. Following WHX's emergence from bankruptcy in July
2005, the Company  continued to experience  liquidity  issues.  WHX is a holding
company,  which  has as its sole  source  of cash  flow  distributions  from its
operating  subsidiary,  H H ("H H") or other discrete  transactions.  H H's bank
credit  facilities  and term loan  effectively  do not permit it to transfer any
cash or other assets to WHX and are collateralized by substantially all of H H's
assets. WHX has no bank credit facility of its own. The Company's operating cash
flow requirements  consist of funding the supplemental  retirement plan, certain
employee-related and administrative costs and the  bankruptcy-related  expenses,
all of which were paid by March 31, 2006.  On an ongoing  basis,  the Company is
required to meet the funding requirements for the WHX Pension Plan and pay other
administrative costs.

      Since  emerging from  bankruptcy,  due to covenant  restrictions  in H H's
credit  facilities,  there  have  been  no  dividends  from  H H to WHX  and the
Company's sources of cash flow have consisted of:

      o     The issuance of $5.1 million in preferred  stock by a newly  created
            subsidiary,  which was  invested  in the  equity  of a small  public
            company; and

      o     Partial payment of the H H subordinated debt to WHX of $9.0 million,
            which required the approval of the banks  participating  in the bank
            facility.  Subsequent  to this  transaction,  in 2006 the  remaining
            intercompany  loan balance of the subordinated debt of $44.2 million
            was converted to equity.

      As of September 30, 2006, WHX had cash of  approximately  $1.6 million and
current  liabilities of  approximately  $6.9 million,  including $5.1 million of
mandatorily  redeemable preferred shares issued by a wholly-owned  subsidiary of
WHX and  payable to a related  party.  WHX also has  significant  2006 cash flow
obligations,  including without  limitation the minimum funding  requirement for
the WHX Pension  Plan,  which is estimated to be $20.6 million ($4.9 million was
paid as of July 14, 2006 and $5.0  million was paid by H H in October  2006) and
estimated other administrative costs for 2006 of approximately $3.8 million. The
PBGC filed a lien against the assets of H H to secure,  among other things,  the
funding  deficiency  existing  as a result  of WHX's  failure  to make  required
contributions  to the WHX Pension Plan, and on October 20, 2006 the PBGC entered
into a lien subordination agreement with H H's revolving credit facility lender.
This subordination  agreement  provides that the subordination  provisions shall
not apply to any debt incurred after December 31, 2006. As previously indicated,
there  are no  current  sources  of  cash  available  to WHX  to  satisfy  these
obligations,   other  than  the  sale  of  its  subsidiary's  equity  investment
(estimated  market  value  at  September  30,  2006 of $5.0  million),  possible
insurance  proceeds  from current  litigation,  or the sale of H H (which is not
currently  contemplated).  If WHX does not obtain  additional  liquidity,  it is
likely that WHX will not have sufficient cash to continue to operate through the
end of 2007.

      In 2006 WHX applied to the Internal  Revenue Service ("IRS") for a funding
waiver for the WHX  Pension  Plan  contributions  for the 2005 and the 2006 plan
years,  but the IRS has since  limited  this  request to the 2005 plan year.  If
granted,  this waiver  would  change the minimum  funding  requirements  to $9.9
million,  $10.0 million,  $7.9 million and $18.3 million (which amounts  reflect
the recent  passage of the Pension  Protection Act of 2006 by Congress which had
the effect of changing the minimum funding requirements) in 2006, 2007, 2008 and
through 2011 respectively,  from $20.6 million,  $2.7 million, $0.0 million, and
$16.7  million  (which  amounts  reflect  the  recent  passage  of  the  Pension
Protection  Act of 2006 by  Congress) in such years  without the waiver.  WHX is
required to make quarterly funding payments for each plan year. In addition, the
remaining minimum required  contribution for such earlier year is required to be
made by September 15 of the  following  year.  On  September  15, 2006,  WHX was
required to make a minimum  contribution for the 2005 plan year in the amount of
$15.5 million.  However, WHX did not make that contribution due to its liquidity
issues. If the funding waiver described above is granted,  such payment would no
longer be due. WHX has made  contributions  in 2006 in the  aggregate  amount of
$9.9 million (including a payment of $5.0 million on or about October 30, 2006).
The  penalties  for failure to make timely  payment of the 2005 minimum  funding
requirement  could result in penalties of 10% of such deficiency,  as well as an
additional  penalty  of 100% of such  amount  under  certain  circumstances.  In
addition,  the failure to make timely quarterly funding payments could result in
the assessment of interest.  The Pension Benefit Guaranty  Corporation  ("PBGC")
filed a lien  against  the  assets of H H to secure,  among  other  things,  the
funding  deficiency,  and on October 20, 2006 entered into a Lien  Subordination
Agreement with Wachovia  Bank,  National  Association,  in its capacity as agent
("Wachovia").  On October 26,  2006,  WHX entered into a  non-binding  letter of
intent with the PBGC ("PBGC LOI"),  which provides,  among other things, for the
PBGC to recommend to the IRS that it approve the funding waiver  application for
the WHX Pension  Plan for the 2005 plan year,  which  amount  would be amortized
over five years,  and for the PBGC to receive certain  subordinate  liens on the
assets of H H and the  Company  to secure the waiver  amount and  certain  other
agreed obligations. WHX and the PBGC are presently working to prepare definitive
documentation relating to the letter of

37

intent  with the PBGC.  If the  funding  waiver is not  granted,  or  definitive
documentation is not finalized and executed, there is no assurance that WHX will
be able to obtain the funds  required to make the  payments.  H H is jointly and
severally liable for the funding of the WHX Pension Plan.

      WHX is  attempting  to  refinance  the H H bank credit  facilities  and to
restructure  the  Term  B  Loan,  which  is  held  by a  related  party,  and is
contemplating  other longer term financing options. As part of such refinancing,
it  is  possible  that  additional  liquidity  may  be  provided  and  that  the
restriction on  distributions  from H H to WHX may be modified.  There can be no
assurance that any refinancing will be completed in a timely manner,  if at all.
If WHX cannot obtain  additional debt or equity  financing,  or liquidity upon a
refinancing  of the H H bank credit  facilities,  there can be no assurance that
WHX will have sufficient funds to continue to operate.

      As of September 30, 2006,  H H's  availability  under its revolving credit
facility  was  $11.7  million;   however,  based  on  the  Company's  forecasted
borrowings,  these  available  funds may not be  sufficient to fund debt service
costs,  working  capital  demands  (especially in light of recent high commodity
prices,  primarily silver and gold), and environmental  remediation  costs. From
January 1, 2006  through  September  30,  2006,  H H spent  approximately  $12.2
million for the remediation of environmental  conditions at the site of a former
manufacturing  facility  which it had  previously  sold.  H H  expects  to spend
approximately   an  additional  $8.8  million  through  2007  to  complete  this
remediation.  In  addition,  H H may owe the buyer of the  property a penalty of
approximately  $3.8 million,  based on an estimated  completion date in February
2007,  which will increase if the  remediation is not completed by this date. An
arbitration  award,  which was  upheld by a court and is  currently  on  appeal,
concluded  that  H H will be  obligated  to pay this  penalty.  However,  H H is
awaiting a judicial  decision  as to the  enforceability  of this  penalty.  The
amount of availability  provided by H H's revolving credit facility limits H H's
borrowing  ability and is anticipated to continue to limit H H's liquidity until
it can refinance this facility..  Additionally,  this credit  facility  contains
various financial covenants,  including minimum EBITDA, as defined, fixed charge
coverage  ratio and  limitations  on  capital  expenditures.  The  Company is in
violation of certain of these  covenants.  The facility  also  includes  certain
financial  reporting  requirements,  which the  Company has been unable to meet.
Historically, H H has been able to obtain amendments to financial covenants when
future  results  were not expected to comply with these  covenants.  H H has not
obtained an amendment  for these  covenant  violations,  and as a result,  is in
default of the  facility.  Accordingly,  the  Company  has  classified  all debt
subject to these covenants as current liabilities in these financial statements.
H H and its bank group have  amended  its  facility  as of October  30,  2006 to
provide,  among other  things,  an  additional  $7.0  million term loan upon the
filing of its 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K,  and an immediate $3.0 million of
borrowing  availability  under its revolving  credit  facility.  H H's revolving
credit facility  matures on March 31, 2007.  There can be no assurance that this
amendment  will  provide H H with the  liquidity  it  requires,  that current or
future  covenant  violations  will be waived by the banks,  or that  replacement
financing will be obtained upon commercially reasonable terms, if at all.

      The above  conditions  raise  substantial  doubt  about  WHX's  ability to
continue  as going  concern.  These  financial  statements  do not  include  any
adjustments  to reflect the possible  future effects on the  recoverability  and
classification  of assets or amounts and  classification of liabilities that may
result from the outcome of this uncertainty.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

      The  Company's  discussion  and analysis of its  financial  condition  and
results of  operations  are based upon its  consolidated  financial  statements,
which have been  prepared in accordance  with  accounting  principles  generally
accepted  in the  United  States  of  America.  Preparation  of these  financial
statements  requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the
reported  amounts of assets,  liabilities,  revenues and  expenses,  and related
disclosure of  contingent  assets and  liabilities.  On an on-going  basis,  the
Company  evaluates  its  estimates,   including  those  related  to  bad  debts,
inventories,  longed lived assets, intangibles, income taxes, pensions and other
post-retirement benefits, and contingencies and litigation.  Estimates are based
on historical  experience,  future cash flows and various other assumptions that
are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form
the  basis  for  making  judgments  about the  carrying  values  of  assets  and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may
differ from these estimates.

      Financial  Reporting  Release No. 60 requires  all  companies to include a
discussion of critical accounting policies or methods used in the preparation of
financial statements. Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements,  included
elsewhere in this Form 10-K,  includes a summary of the  significant  accounting
policies  and  methods  used  in  the  preparation  of the  Company's  financial
statements.  The  following  is a  brief  discussion  of  the  more  significant
accounting policies and methods used by the Company.

38

INVENTORIES

      H H  holds   precious   metal   positions   that  are  subject  to  market
fluctuations.  The precious metal  inventory is included in inventory  using the
last-in,  first-out (LIFO) method of inventory valuation,  which is equal to the
lower  of cost or  market.  The  derivative  financial  instruments  related  to
precious  metals are marked to market through  current period  earnings as other
income or expense and precious metal  inventory is recorded at LIFO cost subject
to lower of cost or market with any adjustments  recorded  through cost of goods
sold. For precious metals inventories,  no segregation among raw materials, work
in process and finished goods is practicable.

      Non-precious   metal   inventories   are  stated  at  the  lower  of  cost
(principally average cost) or market.  Non-precious metal inventory is evaluated
for estimated excess and obsolescence based upon assumptions about future demand
and market conditions and is adjusted  accordingly.  If actual market conditions
are less favorable than those projected by H H, write-downs may be required.

DERIVATIVES

      H H  holds   precious   metal   positions   that  are  subject  to  market
fluctuations.  The  Company  maintains  policies  consistent  with  economically
hedging its precious metals  inventory  against price  fluctuations.  Future and
forward  contracts to sell or buy precious  metal are the  derivatives  used for
this objective.  The derivative  financial  contracts related to precious metals
are marked to market on the balance sheet,  and  accordingly,  both realized and
unrealized  gains and losses on these  derivatives are recorded  through current
period  earnings  as  other  income  (loss).  The  estimated  fair  value of the
derivatives is included in other current assets or other current liabilities.

      As of December  31, 2005 and 2004 the  Company  had  contracted  for $17.1
million and $14.1,  respectively  of forward  contracts with a AA- rated counter
party, and the future  contracts are exchange traded  contracts  through a third
party  broker.  Accordingly,  the Company has  determined  that there is minimal
credit risk of default.  The Company  estimates the fair value of its derivative
contracts  through  use of  market  quotes  or  broker  valuations  when  market
information is not available.

GOODWILL, OTHER INTANGIBLES AND LONG-LIVED ASSETS

      The  Company  adopted  the  provisions  of SFAS 142  "Goodwill  and  Other
Intangible  Assets",  effective January 1, 2002. SFAS 142 requires that goodwill
and intangible  assets with indefinite lives no longer be amortized,  but rather
be tested at least  annually for  impairment.  Intangible  assets with  definite
lives continue to be amortized over their estimated  lives, and are reviewed for
impairment in accordance  with SFAS No. 144,  "Accounting  for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets."

      The values  assigned  to  long-lived  assets such as  property,  plant and
equipment,  and goodwill are reviewed as appropriate.  The Company estimates the
depreciable lives of property,  plant and equipment,  and reviews for impairment
if events,  or changes  in  circumstances,  indicate  that the  Company  may not
recover the carrying amount of an asset.

      As of December 31, 2005 there was $49.4  million of goodwill  remaining on
the balance sheet. The evaluation of the  recoverability of goodwill is based on
a  comparison  of the  respective  reporting  units' fair value to its  carrying
value,  including allocated goodwill.  Fair values are determined by discounting
estimated  future  cash  flows and market  comparables.  The  recoverability  of
goodwill  will be  impacted if  estimated  future  operating  cash flows are not
achieved.

PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT COSTS

      The  Company   and   subsidiaries   maintain  a   qualified   and  several
non-qualified  pension plans and other  postretirement  benefit  plans  covering
substantially  all of its  employees.  Pension  benefits  for  the  WHX  and H H
participants  included in the WHX Pension Plan are based on years of service and
the amount of  compensation  at the time of retirement.  However,  the qualified
pension  benefits were frozen for most  participants as of December 31, 2005 and
April  30,   2006  for  hourly   and   salaried   non-bargaining   participants,
respectively, with the exception of a single subsidiary.

      On March 4, 2005 WHX adopted the WHX  Corporation  Supplemental  Executive
Retirement Plan,  effective as of February 1, 2004, which provides for specified
benefits to be paid to certain of its employees.  All WHX Supplemental Executive
Retirement  Plan benefits were settled as of August 5, 2005, in accordance  with
FAS 88 and this plan was terminated on December 29, 2005.

      Certain current and retired employees of H H are covered by postretirement
medical benefit plans.  The benefits  provided are for medical and  prescription
drugs.  Contributions  from a majority of the  participants are required and for
those retirees and spouses, the Company's payments are capped.

39

The Company's pension and postretirement  benefit costs are developed from
actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions including
discount rates and expected  long-term rates of return on plan assets.  Material
changes in the Company's pension and  postretirement  benefit costs may occur in
the future due to  changes in these  assumptions,  changes in the number of plan
participants, changes in the level of benefits provided, changes to the level of
contributions to these plans and other factors.

      The Company determines its actuarial  assumptions for its pension and post
retirement plans, after consultation with its actuaries,  on December 31 of each
year  to  calculate  liability  information  as of that  date  and  pension  and
postretirement  expense for the following  year. The discount rate assumption is
derived from the rate of return on high quality  bonds as of December 31 of each
year.

      The  Plan's  assets  are  diversified  as to  type of  assets,  investment
strategies  employed,  and number of investment  managers used.  Investments may
include equities,  fixed income, cash equivalents,  convertible securities,  and
hedge funds.  Derivatives  may be used as part of the investment  strategy.  The
Company may direct the transfer of assets between  investment  managers in order
to  rebalance  the  portfolio in  accordance  with asset  allocation  guidelines
established by the Company.

      Management  with  the  advice  of its  actuaries  uses  judgment  to  make
assumptions on which our employee  benefit  liabilities  and expenses are based.
The  effect of a 1% change  in two key  assumptions  is  summarized  as  follows
(dollars in millions):

      Assumptions             Statement of     Balance Sheet
                             Operations (1)      Impact (2)
============================================================
                                      (in millions)
Discount rate
             +1% increase    $          --     $       (36.2)
             -1% decrease              2.0              39.7

Expected return on assets
             +1% increase             (3.2)
             -1% decrease              3.2

(1)   Estimated impact on 2005 net periodic benefit costs.
(2)   Estimated impact on 2005 additional minimum liability.

ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION

      The  Company  provides  for  remediation  costs  and  penalties  when  the
responsibility  to remediate is probable and the amount of  associated  costs is
reasonably determinable.  Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates
of known environmental exposures. The Company regularly monitors the progress of
environmental remediation.  Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation
is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded
in the period in which such  determination  was made.  As of December  31, 2005,
total accruals for environmental remediation were $27.5 million.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

      On September 29, 2006 , the FASB issued Statement of Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 158, "Employers'  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement  Plans"  (SFAS 158) which  amends SFAS 87 and SFAS 106 to require
recognition  of the  overfunded  or  underfunded  status  of  pension  and other
postretirement  benefit plans on the balance  sheet.  Under SFAS 158,  gains and
losses,  prior service costs and credits,  and any remaining  transition amounts
under  SFAS 87 and SFAS  106 that  have  not yet  been  recognized  through  net
periodic  benefit cost will be recognized  in  accumulated  other  comprehensive
income,  net of tax  effects,  until they are  amortized  as a component  of net
periodic  cost.  SFAS 158 is effective  for  publicly-held  companies for fiscal
years ending after  December 15, 2006.  WHX  Corporation  will adopt the balance
sheet recognition  provisions of SFAS 158 at December 31, 2006. For illustrative
purposes,  we have  considered  the impact of these  provisions  at December 31,
2005,  our most  recent  measurement  date.  At that  time,  our  balance  sheet
reflected a reduction in shareholder  equity of approximately $65 million due to
our defined  benefit  pension and other  postretirement  benefit plans.  The new
provisions of SFAS 158 would have resulted in an additional $1 million reduction
to WHX  Corporation's  shareholders'  equity at December 31, 2005. The Statement
does not affect the results of operations.

      In September  2006, the FASB issued  Statement of Financial  Standards No.
157,  "Fair  Value  Measurements"  (SFAS  157).  SFAS 157  defines  fair  value,
establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance  with  accounting
principles  generally  accepted in the United  States,  and expands  disclosures
about fair value  measurements.  This  statement  does not  require any new fair
value  measurements;  rather,  it applies under other accounting  pronouncements
that require or permit fair value measurements. The

40

provisions of SFAS 157 are effective for fiscal years  beginning  after November
15,  2007.  The  Company  does not  expect  the  adoption  of SFAS 157 to have a
material impact on the Company's  consolidated  financial position or results of
operations.

      In June  2006,  the  FASB  issued  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board
Interpretation   No.  48,  "Accounting  for  Uncertainty  in  Income  Taxes,  an
Interpretation  of SFAS Statement 109" (FIN 48), which  clarifies the accounting
for  uncertainty in tax  positions.  This  Interpretation  provides that the tax
effects  from an  uncertain  tax position  can be  recognized  in our  financial
statements,  only if the position is more likely than not of being  sustained on
audit,  based on the technical merits of the position.  The provisions of FIN 48
are effective as of the beginning of fiscal 2007, with the cumulative  effect of
the change in accounting principle recorded as an adjustment to opening retained
earnings.  We are  currently  evaluating  the impact of  adopting  FIN 48 on our
financial statements.

      In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards
No. 154,  "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections," (SFAS 154), which replaces
APB Opinion No. 20,  "Accounting  Changes" and FASB Statement No. 3,  "Reporting
Accounting  Changes  in Interim  Financial  Statements."  SFAS No. 154  requires
retrospective  application to prior periods' financial  statements for voluntary
changes in  accounting  principle  unless it is  impracticable.  SFAS No. 154 is
effective for accounting  changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years
beginning after June 1, 2005.

      In  December  2004,  the FASB  issued a  revised  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards No. 123,  "Share-Based  Payment"  ("SFAS No. 123R").  This
statement eliminates the intrinsic value method as an allowed method for valuing
stock  options   granted  to  employees.   Under  the  intrinsic  value  method,
compensation  expense was  generally  not  recognized  for the issuance of stock
options. The revised statement requires compensation expense to be recognized in
exchange  for the  services  received  based  on the fair  value  of the  equity
instruments on the grant-date.  This statement becomes effective for the Company
as of January 1, 2006.  The  adoption of SFAS No. 123R is not expected to have a
significant impact on the Company's  financial  position,  results of operations
and cash flows.

      In  December  2004,  the FASB issued  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards  No. 151,  "Inventory  Costs - an amendment of ARB No. 43,  Chapter 4"
("SFAS No.  151").  SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in ARB No. 43 and clarifies
accounting  for abnormal  amounts of idle facility  expense,  freight,  handling
costs, and wasted material (spoilage). The statement requires that certain items
that may have  previously  been  included in inventory  costs be  recognized  as
current-period  charges  regardless  of whether  they meet the  criterion of "so
abnormal".  SFAS  No.  151  also  requires  allocation  of  fixed  manufacturing
overheads  to the  costs of  conversion  based  on the  normal  capacity  of the
manufacturing facilities. This statement becomes effective for the Company as of
January 1, 2006.  The  Company  will adopt SFAS No. 151 on January 1, 2006,  and
does not expect such adoption to have a significant  impact on its  consolidated
financial statements.

      In  January  2004,  the FASB  issued  FASB Staff  Position  No. FAS 106-1,
"Accounting  and Disclosure  Requirements  Related to the Medicare  Prescription
Drug,  Improvement and Modernization  Act of 2003" (FSP 106-1).  The FSP permits
employers that sponsor postretirement benefit plans (plan sponsors) that provide
prescription  drug  benefits to  retirees  to make a one-time  election to defer
accounting for any effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug,  Improvement,  and
Modernization  Act of 2003 (the "Act").  Without the FSP, plan sponsors would be
required under Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers'
Accounting for Postretirement  Benefits Other Than Pensions", to account for the
effects of the Act in the fiscal period that includes December 8, 2003, the date
the President signed the Act into law. FASB Staff Position No. 106-2 (FSP 106-2)
includes  guidance  on  recognizing  the  effects of the new  legislation  under
various  conditions  surrounding  the assessment of "actuarial  equivalence"  of
subsidies  under the Act. FSP 106-2 is effective for the first interim or annual
period  beginning after June 15, 2004 with earlier  application  permitted.  The
adoption of FSP 106-1 and 106-2 did not have a material  impact on the Company's
financial statements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS

COMMODITY PRICE RISK AND RELATED RISKS

      In the normal  course of business,  H H is exposed to market risk or price
fluctuation  related to the  purchase  of  natural  gas,  electricity,  precious
metals, steel products and certain non-ferrous metals used as raw material.  H H
is also  exposed  to the  effects  of  price  fluctuations  on the  value of its
commodity inventories, specifically, H H's precious metals inventories.

      H H's market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices
for its  products and services  and allow  operating  results to reflect  market
price movements dictated by supply and demand.

      H H enters into  commodity  futures  and  forwards  contracts  on precious
metals that are subject to market  fluctuations in order to  economically  hedge
its precious metals  inventory  against price  fluctuations.  Future and forward
contracts  to sell or buy  precious  metal  are the  derivatives  used  for this
objective.  As these  derivatives are not designated as accounting  hedges under
SFAS 133, they are accounted for as derivatives with no hedge designation. These
derivatives  are marked to market and both  realized  and  unrealized  gains and
losses on these  derivatives  are recorded in current  period  earnings as other
income  (loss).  The  unrealized  gain  or  loss  (open  trade  equity)  on  the
derivatives is included in other current assets or other current liabilities.

41

FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE RISK

      H H is subject to the risk of price  fluctuations  related to  anticipated
revenues and operating  costs,  firm  commitments for capital  expenditures  and
existing  assets  or  liabilities  denominated  in  currencies  other  than U.S.
dollars. H H has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk.

INTEREST RATE RISK

      Fair  value  of  cash  and  cash  equivalents,   receivables,   short-term
borrowings,  accounts payable, accrued interest and variable-rate long-term debt
approximate  their carrying values and are relatively  insensitive to changes in
interest rates due to the short-term maturity of the instruments or the variable
nature of underlying interest rates.

      At December 31, 2005,  the  Company's  portfolio of debt was  comprised of
primarily  variable  rate  instruments.  Accordingly,  the  fair  value  of such
instruments   may  be   relatively   sensitive  to  effects  of  interest   rate
fluctuations.  In addition,  the fair value of such instruments is also affected
by investors'  assessments of the risks  associated with industries in which the
Company operates as well as the Company's overall  creditworthiness  and ability
to satisfy such obligations upon their maturity.

      A reduction  in long-term  interest  rates could  materially  increase the
Company's cash funding obligations to the WHX Pension Plan.

SAFE HARBOR

      The Company's  quantitative and qualitative  disclosures about market risk
include  forward-looking  statements with respect to management's  opinion about
the risk associated with the Company's financial  instruments.  These statements
are based on certain  assumptions with respect to market prices,  interest rates
and other  industry-specific risk factors. To the extent these assumptions prove
to be inaccurate,  future  outcomes may differ  materially  from those discussed
above.

42

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

             REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and
Stockholders of WHX Corporation:

      In our  opinion,  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets and the
related  consolidated  statements  of  operations,  cash  flows and  changes  in
stockholders'  (deficit) equity and comprehensive  income (loss) present fairly,
in all material  respects,  the financial  position of WHX  Corporation  and its
subsidiaries  (the  "Company") at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of
their  operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended  December 31, 2005, in conformity  with  accounting  principles  generally
accepted in the United States of America.  These  financial  statements  are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these  financial  statements  based on our audits.  We conducted  our
audits of these  statements  in  accordance  with the  standards  of the  Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance about whether the
financial  statements  are free of  material  misstatement.  An  audit  includes
examining,  on a test basis,  evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial  statements,  assessing  the  accounting  principles  used and the
significant  estimates made by management,  and evaluating the overall financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for our opinion.

      As discussed in Note 1b to the  consolidated  financials  statements,  the
2003 consolidated financial statements have been restated.

      The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the
Company will continue as a going  concern.  As more fully  described in Notes 1a
and 2 to the  consolidated  financial  statements,  WHX Corporation  ("WHX") had
their plan of  reorganization  (the "Plan") approved by the bankruptcy court and
emerged  from  bankruptcy  effective  July 29,  2005.  The Plan  resulted in the
discharge of all pre-bankruptcy  claims against WHX, except for its liability to
its pension plan, and  substantially  altered the rights and interests of equity
security holders.  WHX is a holding company with no bank facility of its own and
since  emerging from  bankruptcy  has not had access to dividends  from its only
operating  subsidiary,  Handy    Harman  ("H H").  Additionally,  H H  has  also
experienced  certain  liquidity  issues, as more fully described in Note 1a, and
its credit facility  matures on March 31, 2007. WHX has as its principal  source
of  cash  limited  discrete  transactions  as  described  in  Note  1a  and  has
significant cash requirements  including the funding of the WHX Pension Plan and
certain other administrative costs. If WHX does not obtain additional liquidity,
it is likely  that WHX will not have  sufficient  cash to  continue  to  operate
through 2007 and pay its  liabilities as they become due in the normal course of
business.  These conditions raise  substantial doubt about the Company's ability
to continue as a going  concern.  Management's  plans in regard to these matters
are also  described  in Note 1a. The  financial  statements  do not  include any
adjustments  to reflect the possible  future effects on the  recoverability  and
classification  of assets or the amounts and  classification of liabilities that
may result from the outcome of this uncertainty.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
December 14, 2006

43

WHX CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

                                                                           Year ended December 31,
                                                               ----------------------------------------------
                                                                   2005             2004             2003
                                                               ------------     ------------     ------------
                                                                                                 (AS RESTATED)
                                                                      (IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE)

Net sales                                                      $    403,815     $    371,961     $    289,890
Cost of goods sold                                                  331,193          299,049          230,149
                                                               ------------     ------------     ------------
Gross profit                                                         72,622           72,912           59,741
Selling, general and administrative expenses                         69,825           64,437           63,315
Pension - curtailment and special termination benefits                   --               --           48,102
Goodwill impairment charge                                               --           79,788           67,343
Environmental remediation expense                                        --           28,971              502
Loss (gain) on disposal of assets                                       103             (592)           4,803
                                                               ------------     ------------     ------------
Income (loss) from operations                                         2,694          (99,692)        (124,324)
                                                               ------------     ------------     ------------
Other:
      Interest expense                                               17,236           25,486           19,005
      Chapter 11 and related reorganization expenses                  9,454               --               --
      Gain on disposition of WPC                                         --               --              534
      Gain (loss) on early retirement of debt                            --           (1,161)           2,999
      Other income (loss)                                            (4,112)           6,565            1,755
                                                               ------------     ------------     ------------
Loss from continuing operations before taxes                        (28,108)        (119,774)        (138,041)
Tax provision                                                         2,342            2,172           13,208
                                                               ------------     ------------     ------------
Loss from continuing operations, net                                (30,450)        (121,946)        (151,249)
                                                               ------------     ------------     ------------
Discontinued operations:
      Loss from discontinued operations                              (4,207)         (18,498)          (8,675)
                                                               ------------     ------------     ------------
Net loss                                                            (34,657)        (140,444)        (159,924)

Add: Extinguishment of preferred stock                              257,782               --               --
Less: Dividend requirement for preferred stock                        3,561           19,424           19,424
                                                               ------------     ------------     ------------
Income (loss) applicable to common stock                       $    219,564     $   (159,868)    $   (179,348)
                                                               ============     ============     ============

BASIC AND DILUTED PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK
Income (loss) from continuing operations
   net of preferred dividends                                  $      30.94     $     (25.98)    $     (31.74)
Discontinued operations                                               (0.58)           (3.40)           (1.61)
                                                               ------------     ------------     ------------

Net income (loss) per share applicable to common shares        $      30.36     $     (29.38)    $     (33.35)
                                                               ============     ============     ============

SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

44

WHX CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                                                                    December 31,
                                                                         ---------------------------------
                                                                              2005               2004
                                                                         --------------     --------------
                                                                                  (IN THOUSANDS)
                                ASSETS

Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents                                                $        4,076     $       20,826
Trade receivables, less allowance for doubtful accounts
   of $866 and $678                                                              57,243             48,004
Inventories                                                                      60,978             58,304
Current assets of discontinued operations                                           181             15,595
Insurance receivable                                                              2,000                 --
Deferred income taxes                                                               797                726
Other current assets                                                              6,641              9,130
                                                                         --------------     --------------
    Total current assets                                                        131,916            152,585

Property, plant and equipment, at cost less
   accumulated depreciation and amortization                                     91,150             84,465
Goodwill and other intangibles                                                   50,048             49,982
Intangible pension asset                                                            586              1,760
Long term assets of discontinued operations                                       2,794              3,589
Other non-current assets                                                         19,704             19,535
                                                                         --------------     --------------
                                                                         $      296,198     $      311,916
                                                                         ==============     ==============

            LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' (DEFICIT) EQUITY
Current liabilities:
Trade payables                                                           $       49,274     $       33,499
Accrued environmental liability                                                  27,526             31,424
Accrued liabilities                                                              31,064             30,822
Current portion of long-term debt                                                23,127            183,629
Current portion of long-term debt - related party                                70,627                 --
Short-term debt                                                                  51,080             40,398
Deferred income taxes                                                               743                702
Current liabilities of discontinued operations                                      581              4,855
                                                                         --------------     --------------
    Total current liabilities                                                   254,022            325,329

Long-term debt                                                                    4,889              6,027
Accrued pension liability                                                        16,216             18,786
Other employee benefit liabilities                                                8,761              9,617
Deferred  income taxes                                                            2,413              2,084
Additional minimum pension liability                                             65,601             47,002
                                                                         --------------     --------------
                                                                                351,902            408,845
                                                                         --------------     --------------

Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders' (deficit) equity:
Preferred stock - $.10 par value; authorized 5,000 and 10,000 shares;
  issued and outstanding  -0- shares and 5,223 shares, as of
  December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively                                           --                552
Common stock -  $.01 par value; authorized 40,000 and 60,000 shares;
  issued and outstanding: 10,000 and 5,486 shares, as of
  December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively                                          100                 55
Warrants                                                                          1,287                 --
Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                            (57,426)           (36,611)
Additional paid-in capital                                                      394,308            556,206
Unearned compensation - restricted stock awards                                      --                (33)
Accumulated deficit                                                            (393,973)          (617,098)
                                                                         --------------     --------------
                                                                                (55,704)           (96,929)
                                                                         --------------     --------------
                                                                         $      296,198     $      311,916
                                                                         ==============     ==============

SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

45

WHX CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                                                                  Year ended December 31,
                                                                   ----------------------------------------------------
                                                                        2005               2004               2003
                                                                   --------------     --------------     --------------
                                                                                                          (AS RESTATED)
                                                                                      (IN THOUSANDS)
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Net loss                                                           $      (34,657)    $     (140,444)    $     (159,924)
Items not affecting cash from operating activities:
  Goodwill impairment charge                                                   --             79,788             67,343
  Depreciation and amortization                                            12,804             12,768             12,913
  Amortization of debt related costs                                        2,303              2,671              1,836
  Other postretirement benefits                                               944              1,221                974
  (Gain) loss on early retirement of debt                                      --              1,161             (2,999)
  Gain on WPSC note recovery                                                   --             (5,596)                --
  Deferred income taxes                                                       299                202             10,930
  (Gain) loss on derivatives - (unrealized)                                 4,263               (549)               190
  Loss (gain) on asset dispositions                                           103               (592)             5,429
  Pension - curtailment and special termination benefits                       --                 --             48,102
  Gain on disposition of WPC                                                   --                 --               (534)
  Equity income in affiliated companies                                      (160)               (48)               (38)
  Discontinued operations                                                  (1,161)            11,140              2,224
  Other                                                                        33                 66                 99
Decrease (increase) in working capital elements,
  net of effect of acquisitions:
       Trade receivables                                                   (9,734)            (9,320)              (794)
       Inventories                                                         (2,823)           (24,214)            16,751
       Short term investments-trading                                          --                 --            205,275
       Other current assets                                                 1,460              1,934                237
       Other current liabilities                                           11,726             27,617            (21,358)
  Other items-net                                                          (1,791)             1,567             (4,099)
  Discontinued operations                                                  11,379              1,077              1,319
                                                                   --------------     --------------     --------------
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities                        (5,012)           (39,551)           183,876
                                                                   --------------     --------------     --------------
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
  Acquisitions                                                             (5,031)            (2,410)                --
  Net payments to WPC                                                          --                 --            (19,500)
  Cash received on WPSC note recovery                                          --              5,596                 --
  Sale (purchase) of aircraft for resale                                       --             19,301            (19,255)
  Plant additions and improvements                                        (20,374)            (9,370)            (9,761)
  (Gain) loss on derivative activity - (realized)                          (3,275)               467                308
  Net cash flow provided by (used in) discontinued operations               1,949               (440)              (664)
  Proceeds from sales of assets                                                45              7,111             10,296
                                                                   --------------     --------------     --------------
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities                       (26,686)            20,255            (38,576)
                                                                   --------------     --------------     --------------
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
  Net revolver borrowings                                                  11,722             40,398              6,663
  Proceeds from Term Loan B - related party                                70,627                 --                 --
  Repayment of term loan - Canpartners                                    (71,000)                --                 --
  Repayment of H H Senior Secured Credit Facility                              --           (149,684)                --
  Net borrowings from  H H Senior Secured Credit Facility                      --             20,604                 --
  Preferred stock issuance-mandatory redemption                             5,100                 --                 --
  Repayment of H H Industrial Revenue Bonds                                    --             (7,500)                --
  Cash proceeds from term loans                                                --             99,250                 --
  Repayment of term loans - Domestic                                       (2,776)            (2,848)                --
  Repayment of term loans - Foreign                                          (398)              (359)                --
  Debt issuance fees                                                           --             (5,392)                --
  Cash paid on early extinguishment of debt                                    --                 --            (14,302)
  Investment account borrowings                                                --                 --           (107,857)
  Net change in overdrafts                                                  1,663              3,489               (530)
  Net cash flow used by discontinued operations                                --                 --             (9,285)
  Proceeds from loan repayment - Unimast                                       --                 --              3,204
                                                                   --------------     --------------     --------------
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities                        14,938             (2,042)          (122,107)
                                                                   --------------     --------------     --------------
NET CHANGE FOR THE PERIOD                                                 (16,760)           (21,338)            23,193
EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON NET CASH                                    10                174                401
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year                             20,826             41,990             18,396
                                                                   --------------     --------------     --------------
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR                           $        4,076     $       20,826     $       41,990
                                                                   ==============     ==============     ==============

SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

46

WHX CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' (DEFICIT) EQUITY AND
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

(DOLLARS AND SHARES IN THOUSANDS)

                                  Common Stock              Preferred Stock       Warrants
                              ---------------------     ---------------------     --------
                               Shares       Amount       Shares       Amount
                              --------     --------     --------     --------
BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2002
(AS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED IN
2003)                            5,406     $     54        5,523     $    552     $     --

Restatement of beginning
balance

BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2002
(AS RESTATED)

Net loss (as restated)

Current period change
(as previously reported)

Restatement of minimum
pension liability
adjustment

Current period change
(as restated)

Deferred compensation               80            1

Compensation expense
                              --------     --------     --------     --------     --------

BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2003       5,486           55        5,523          552           --

Current period change

Net loss

Compensation expense
                              --------     --------     --------     --------     --------

BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2004       5,486           55        5,523          552           --

Issuance of new shares          10,000          100

Current period change

Net loss

Extinguishment of
preferred stock                 (5,486)         (55)      (5,523)        (552)       1,287

Compensation expense

Conversion of senior notes
and accrued interest
                              --------     --------     --------     --------     --------

BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2005      10,000     $    100           --     $     --     $  1,287
                              ========     ========     ========     ========     ========

                               Accumulated                                                Total
                                  Other                                   Capital in  Stockholders'
                              Comprehensive   Accumulated     Unearned    Excess of     (Deficit)
                              Income (Loss)     Deficit     Compensation  Par Value      Equity
                              -------------   -----------   ------------  ----------  -------------
BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2002
(AS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED IN
2003)                            $(35,775)     $(306,979)     $     --     $556,009     $213,861

Restatement of beginning
balance                                           (9,751)                                 (9,751)
                                                --------                                 -------

BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2002
(AS RESTATED)                                   (316,730)                                204,110

Net loss (as restated)                          (159,924)                               (159,924)

Current period change
(as previously reported)           14,133                                                 14,133

Restatement of minimum
pension liability
adjustment                          5,262                                                  5,262
                                   ------                                                 ------

Current period change
(as restated)                      19,395                                                 19,395

Deferred compensation                                             (198)         197           --

Compensation expense                                                99                        99
                                 --------      ---------      --------     --------     --------

BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2003        (16,380)      (476,654)          (99)     556,206       63,680

Current period change             (20,231)                                               (20,231)

Net loss                                        (140,444)                               (140,444)

Compensation expense                                                66                        66
                                 --------      ---------      --------     --------     --------

BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2004        (36,611)      (617,098)          (33)     556,206      (96,929)

Issuance of new shares                                                                       100

Current period change             (20,815)                                               (20,815)

Net loss                                         (34,657)                                (34,657)

Extinguishment of
preferred stock                                  257,782                   (258,525)         (63)

Compensation expense                                                33                        33

Conversion of senior notes
and accrued interest                                                         96,627       96,627
                                 --------      ---------      --------     --------     --------

BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2005       $(57,426)     $(393,973)     $     --     $394,308     $(55,704)
                                 ========      =========      ========     ========     ========

                                                                                Year Ended December 31,
                                                                         ---------     ---------     ---------
                                                                            2005          2004          2003
                                                                         ---------     ---------     ---------
                                                                                                   (AS RESTATED)
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
Net loss                                                                 $ (34,657)    $(140,444)    $(159,924)

Minimum pension liability adjustment (as previously reported in 2003)      (19,774)      (21,248)       10,752
Restatement of minimum pension liability adjustment                                                      5,262
                                                                                                     ---------
Minimum pension liability adjustment (as restated)                                                      16,014

Foreign currency translation adjustment                                     (1,041)        1,017         2,239
Write off  foreign currency translation losses                                                           1,142
                                                                         ---------     ---------     ---------
COMPREHENSIVE LOSS                                                       $ (55,472)    $(160,675)    $(140,529)
                                                                         =========     =========     =========

SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

47

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

      On March 7, 2005, WHX  Corporation,  the parent company  ("WHX"),  filed a
voluntary petition  ("Bankruptcy  Filing") to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the
United States  Bankruptcy Code with the United States  Bankruptcy  Court for the
Southern District of New York (the "Bankruptcy Court"). WHX continued to operate
its businesses and own and manage its properties as a debtor-in-possession under
the  jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy  Court and in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the Bankruptcy Code until it emerged from protection under Chapter
11 on July 29, 2005 (the "Effective Date") (see Note 2).

      WHX is a holding  company that  invests in and manages a diverse  group of
businesses that are managed on a decentralized  basis. WHX's primary business is
Handy   Harman  ("H H"),  a diversified  manufacturing  company whose  strategic
business units encompass three reportable segments: precious metals, tubing, and
engineered materials. WHX's other business (up through August 1, 2003 - see Note
4) consisted of WPC and six of its  subsidiaries,  including  WPSC; a vertically
integrated  manufacturer of value-added  and flat rolled steel  products.  WPSC,
together with WPC and its other subsidiaries, shall be referred to herein as the
"WPC  Group." WHX,  together  with all of its  subsidiaries,  other than the WPC
Group shall be referred to herein as the "Company."

NOTE 1A - MANAGEMENT'S PLANS AND LIQUIDITY

      The  accompanying  financial  statements  have been prepared  assuming the
Company will  continue as a going  concern.  The Company  incurred net losses of
$34.7  million,  $140.4  million and $159.9 million for the years ended December
31,  2005,  2004  and  2003,  respectively  and had  negative  cash  flows  from
operations  of $5.0 million and $39.6  million for the years ended  December 31,
2005 and 2004,  respectively.  As of  December  31,  2005,  the  Company  had an
accumulated  deficit of $394.0 million and a working  capital  deficit of $122.1
million as of December 31, 2005 and $172.7 million as of December 31, 2004. With
the  exception  of $4.9  million  of  other  H H  debt,  all  debt  has been
reclassified as current due to noncompliance with certain debt covenants.

      In March 2005, WHX filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the
United States Bankruptcy Code. Following WHX's emergence from bankruptcy in July
2005, the Company  continued to experience  liquidity  issues.  WHX is a holding
company and has as its sole source of cash flow distributions from its operating
subsidiary,  H H, or other discrete  transactions.  H H's bank credit facilities
and term loan  effectively do not permit it to transfer any cash or other assets
to WHX and are  collateralized by substantially all of H H's assets.  WHX has no
bank credit facility of its own. WHX's operating cash flow requirements  consist
of funding the supplemental retirement plan, certain  employee-related costs and
the bankruptcy-related expenses, all of which were paid by March 31, 2006. On an
ongoing basis, the Company is required to meet the funding  requirements for the
WHX Pension Plan and pay other administrative costs.

      Since  emerging from  bankruptcy,  due to covenant  restrictions  in H H's
credit  facilities,  there  have  been no  dividends  from H H to WHX and  WHX's
sources of cash flow have consisted of:

      o     The issuance of $5.1 million in preferred  stock by a newly  created
            subsidiary,  which was  invested  in the  equity  of a small  public
            company; and

      o     Partial payment of the H H subordinated debt to WHX of $9.0 million,
            which required the approval of the banks  participating  in the bank
            facility.  Subsequent  to this  transaction,  in 2006 the  remaining
            intercompany   subordinated   debt  balance  of  $44.2  million  was
            converted to equity.

      As of September 30, 2006, WHX had cash of  approximately  $1.6 million and
current  liabilities of  approximately  $6.9 million,  including $5.1 million of
mandatorily redeemable preferred shares, issued by a wholly-owned  subsidiary of
WHX and  payable to a related  party.  WHX also has  significant  2006 cash flow
obligations,  including without  limitation the minimum funding  requirement for
the WHX Pension  Plan,  which is estimated to be $20.6 million ($4.9 million was
paid as of July 14, 2006 and $5.0  million was paid by H H in October  2006) and
estimated other administrative costs for 2006 of approximately $3.8 million. The
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") filed a lien against the assets of
H H to secure,  among other things, the funding deficiency  existing as a result
of WHX's failure to make required  contributions to the WHX Pension Plan, and on
October 20, 2006 the PBGC entered into a lien subordination agreement with H H's
revolving credit facility lender. This subordination agreement provides that the
subordination provisions shall not apply to any debt incurred after December 31,
2006. As previously indicated, there are no current sources of cash available to
WHX to satisfy these obligations, other than the sale of its subsidiary's equity
investment  (estimated  market  value at  September  30, 2006 of $5.0  million),
possible insurance proceeds from current  litigation,  or the sale of H H (which
is not currently contemplated).  If WHX does not obtain additional liquidity, it
is likely that WHX will not have  sufficient cash to continue to operate through
the end of 2007.

48

In 2006 WHX applied to the Internal  Revenue Service ("IRS") for a funding
waiver for the WHX  Pension  Plan  contributions  for the 2005 and the 2006 plan
years,  but the IRS has since  limited  this  request to the 2005 plan year.  If
granted,  this waiver  would  change the minimum  funding  requirements  to $9.9
million,  $10.0 million,  $7.9 million and $18.3 million (which amounts  reflect
the recent  passage of the Pension  Protection Act of 2006 by Congress which had
the effect of changing the minimum funding requirements) in 2006, 2007, 2008 and
through 2011 respectively,  from $20.6 million,  $2.7 million, $0.0 million, and
$16.7  million  (which  amounts  reflect  the  recent  passage  of  the  Pension
Protection  Act of 2006 by  Congress) in such years  without the waiver.  WHX is
required to make quarterly funding payments for each plan year. In addition, the
remaining minimum required  contribution for such earlier year is required to be
made by September 15 of the  following  year.  On  September  15, 2006,  WHX was
required to make a minimum  contribution for the 2005 plan year in the amount of
$15.5 million.  However, WHX did not make that contribution due to its liquidity
issues. If the funding waiver described above is granted,  such payment would no
longer be due. WHX has made  contributions  in 2006 in the  aggregate  amount of
$9.9 million (including a payment of $5.0 million on or about October 30, 2006).
The  penalties  for failure to make timely  payment of the 2005 minimum  funding
requirement  could result in penalties of 10% of such deficiency,  as well as an
additional  penalty  of 100% of such  amount  under  certain  circumstances.  In
addition,  the failure to make timely quarterly funding payments could result in
the  assessment of interest.  The PBGC filed a lien against the assets of H H to
secure,  among other  things,  the funding  deficiency,  and on October 20, 2006
entered  into  a Lien  Subordination  Agreement  with  Wachovia  Bank,  National
Association,  in its capacity as agent  ("Wachovia").  On October 26, 2006,  WHX
entered into a non-binding  letter of intent with the PBGC ("PBGC  LOI"),  which
provides,  among  other  things,  for the PBGC to  recommend  to the IRS that it
approve the funding  waiver  application  for the WHX Pension  Plan for the 2005
plan year,  which amount would be amortized over five years, and for the PBGC to
receive certain subordinate liens on the assets of H H and the Company to secure
the waiver  amount and certain  other agreed  obligations.  WHX and the PBGC are
presently working to prepare definitive  documentation relating to the letter of
intent  with the PBGC.  If the  funding  waiver is not  granted,  or  definitive
documentation is not finalized and executed, there is no assurance that WHX will
be able to obtain the funds  required to make the  payments.  H H is jointly and
severally liable for the funding of the WHX Pension Plan.

      The Company intends to attempt to refinance the H H bank credit facilities
and to restructure  the Term B Loan,  which is held by a related  party,  and is
contemplating  other longer term financing options. As part of such refinancing,
it is  possible  that  additional  liquidity  will  be  provided  and  that  the
restriction on distributions  from H H to WHX will be modified.  There can be no
assurance that any refinancing will be completed in a timely manner,  if at all.
If WHX cannot obtain  additional debt or equity  financing,  or liquidity upon a
refinancing  of the H H bank credit  facilities,  there can be no assurance that
WHX will have sufficient funds to continue to operate.

      As of September 30, 2006,  H H's  availability  under its revolving credit
facility  was  $11.7  million;   however,  based  on  the  Company's  forecasted
borrowings,  these  available  funds may not be  sufficient to fund debt service
costs,  working  capital  demands  (especially in light of recent high commodity
prices,  primarily silver and gold), and environmental  remediation  costs. From
January 1, 2006  through  September  30,  2006,  H H spent  approximately  $12.2
million for the remediation of environmental  conditions at the site of a former
manufacturing  facility  which it had  previously  sold.  H H  expects  to spend
approximately   an  additional  $8.8  million  through  2007  to  complete  this
remediation.  In  addition,  H H may owe the buyer of the  property a penalty of
approximately  $3.8 million,  based on a completion date of February 2007, which
may  increase  if the  remediation  is not  completed  by this date in 2007.  An
arbitration  award,  which was  upheld by a court and is  currently  on  appeal,
concluded  that  H H will be  obligated  to pay this  penalty.  However,  H H is
awaiting a judicial  decision  as to the  enforceability  of this  penalty.  The
amount of availability  provided by H H's revolving credit facility limits H H's
borrowing  ability and is anticipated to continue to limit H H's liquidity until
it can refinance  this facility.  Additionally,  this credit  facility  contains
various financial covenants,  including minimum EBITDA, as defined, fixed charge
coverage  ratio and  limitations  on  capital  expenditures.  The  Company is in
violation of certain of these  covenants.  The facility  also  includes  certain
financial  reporting  requirements,  which the  Company has been unable to meet.
Historically, H H has been able to obtain amendments to financial covenants when
future  results  were not expected to comply with these  covenants.  H H has not
obtained an amendment  for these  covenant  violations,  and as a result,  is in
default of the  facility.  Accordingly,  the  Company  has  classified  all debt
subject to these covenants as current liabilities in these financial statements.
H H and its bank group have  amended  its  facility  as of October  30,  2006 to
provide,  among other  things,  an  additional  $7.0  million term loan upon the
filing of its 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K,  and an immediate $3.0 million of
borrowing  availability  under its revolving  credit  facility.  H H's revolving
credit facility also matures March 31, 2007. There can be no assurance that this
amendment  will  provide H H with the  liquidity  it  requires,  that current or
future  covenant  violations  will be waived by the banks,  or that  replacement
financing will be obtained upon commercially reasonable terms, if at all.

      The above conditions raise  substantial  doubt about the Company's ability
to continue as a going concern.  These  financial  statements do not include any
adjustments  to reflect the possible  future effects on the  recoverability  and
classification  of assets or amounts and  classification of liabilities that may
result from the outcome of this uncertainty.

49

NOTE 1B - RESTATEMENT OF PREVIOUSLY ISSUED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

      The Company has restated its 2003 and prior year's financial statements to
correct its  accounting for goodwill  impairment,  certain tax matters and other
corrections,  including its accounting for derivative instruments  (specifically
futures  contracts on precious metals) and the related impact on inventory,  and
its accounting for an executive life insurance program, as well as its reporting
of investment borrowings in its 2003 statement of cash flows as described below.

GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT

      In fiscal  2003 the  Company  previously  recorded a  goodwill  impairment
charge  of  $89.0  million  relating  to  several  of its  reporting  units.  In
connection  with the preparation of its 2004 financial  statements,  the Company
identified several errors in its assessment of goodwill impairment  resulting in
the  need to  restate  its  2002 and  2003  consolidated  financial  statements,
including:  (1) the reallocation of goodwill,  upon the date of adoption of SFAS
142, 'Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets',  to the applicable  reporting units
of the Company  based on a more  reasonable  and  supportable  methodology;  (2)
identification of additional reporting units not previously considered;  (3) use
of different  discount  rates that more  appropriately  considered the different
risks  associated  with the individual  reporting  units rather than the overall
consolidated rate; (4) identification of certain intangible assets that were not
previously  considered in determining the implied  goodwill as of the assessment
date;  and (5) use of a  growth  rate in  determining  the  terminal  value of a
reporting unit,  which the Company did not consider in its original  valuations.
The effect of  correcting  these  errors was to reduce the  goodwill  impairment
charge,  loss from  continuing  operations and net loss by $21.7 million for the
year ended  December 31, 2003.  An adjustment  to increase  opening  accumulated
deficit  by  $15.8  million  was  recorded  in 2003 to  record  the  effects  of
corrections to previously reported goodwill impairments.

TAX MATTERS

      As of December  31,  2002,  the Company had  included  $5.3 million in its
deferred tax assets  related to the recording of an additional  minimum  pension
liability.  As of  December  31,  2003,  the  Company  established  a  valuation
allowance for all deferred tax assets,  and incorrectly  charged $5.3 million to
other comprehensive loss for the valuation allowance related to the deferred tax
asset  associated with the minimum pension  liability.  The Company now believes
that in  accordance  with the  provisions  of SFAS 109,  "Accounting  for Income
Taxes",  the charge to other  comprehensive  loss  should  have been a charge to
income tax  expense.  Accordingly,  the net loss for 2003 has been  increased by
$5.3 million and accumulated other comprehensive loss and accumulated deficit as
of  December  31,  2003  were  decreased  and  increased  by  the  same  amount,
respectively.

      As a result of the  Company's  review of deferred  taxes,  federal  taxes,
state taxes payable and tax reserves  (federal and state),  certain  errors were
identified related to 2003 and prior periods. The effect of these errors on 2003
is an increase  in tax  expense of $12.0  million,  including  the $5.3  million
adjustment to comprehensive  loss discussed above. The Company had established a
valuation  allowance against its net deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2003.
As part of the 2003 restatement,  the Company increased its valuation  allowance
to reflect $1.1 million of deferred tax  liabilities  that cannot be  considered
when   assessing   the   realizability   of  deferred   tax  assets  in  certain
jurisdictions.  These  deferred tax  liabilities  primarily  relate to temporary
differences for the tax amortization of  tax-deductible  goodwill.  In addition,
the Company  increased  its valuation  allowance by $4.6 million for  additional
federal  deferred tax assets that were recorded as part of the  restatement  for
2002 and prior  periods,  but required a valuation  allowance as of December 31,
2003. The Company also increased its valuation allowance to reflect $0.6 million
and $0.1 million of state and foreign  deferred tax  liabilities,  respectively,
that it had  inappropriately  netted against federal  deferred tax assets in its
previously issued 2003 financial statements.  The balance of the restatement for
2003 tax matters relates primarily to state tax issues.

      Deferred  taxes  relating  to  hedge  accounting  and  related   inventory
accounts,  and executive life restatement were also recorded and are included in
the  adjustments   discussed   above.   The  goodwill   restatement   items  are
non-deductible and accordingly have no impact on tax matters.

      As of  December  31,  2003,  tax  restatement  matters  resulted in a $3.0
million decrease to accrued liabilities, a $1.9 million increase to net deferred
tax liabilities, a $5.3 million decrease to other comprehensive loss, and a $1.7
million decrease to goodwill.  The reduction in accrued liabilities includes the
reversal  of a  $1.7  million  tax  reserve  attributable  to H H  prior  to its
acquisition by the Company. The reversal of this reserve reduced goodwill by the
same amount.  Additionally,  an adjustment to decrease  accumulated  deficit was
recorded at January 1, 2003 for a tax benefit of $6.3 million for corrections to
periods prior to 2003.

INVESTMENT BORROWINGS

      During  fiscal  2003 and  2002,  the  Company  frequently  traded  in U.S.
Treasury  securities  which were  classified as short term  investments and were
considered   trading   securities  under  SFAS  115,   "Accounting  for  Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity  Securities".  Accordingly,  the Company recorded
the  activity in these  trading  investments  as  operating  cash  flows.  As of
December

50

31, 2002,  the Company had  short-term  margin  borrowings,  aggregating  $107.9
million, which were borrowed to fund these short-term  investments.  The Company
has determined that it incorrectly  recorded  changes in such borrowings as cash
flows from operating  activities when such borrowings  should have been reported
as cash flows from financing  activities in accordance with SFAS 95,  "Statement
of Cash Flows".

      The effect of  correcting  these  errors in 2003 was an  increase  in cash
flows  provided by operating  activities of $107.9  million,  and an increase in
cash flows used in financing  activities for the same amount.  This  restatement
had no effect on the 2003 net change in cash for the period.

OTHER CORRECTIONS:

      HEDGE ACCOUNTING/INVENTORY

      In order to  produce  certain  of its  products,  the  Company  purchases,
maintains and utilizes precious metals inventory. The Company maintains policies
consistent with economically hedging its precious metals inventory against price
fluctuations.  Hedge  accounting  under  SFAS 133,  "Accounting  for  Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities",  requires contemporaneous  documentation at
the inception of the applicable hedging  relationship,  including the method for
assessing the hedging instrument's effectiveness as well as the method that will
be  used to  measure  hedge  ineffectiveness.  The  Company  did  not  meet  the
documentation  criteria  necessary to apply hedge  accounting.  Accordingly  the
Company has restated its financial  statements to mark to market the  derivative
instruments  related to precious  metals.  Such mark to market  adjustments  are
recorded in current period  earnings as other income or expense in the Company's
consolidated statement of operations.  In addition, the Company has restated its
financial  statements  to record  its  precious  metal  inventory  at LIFO cost,
subject to lower of cost or market with any adjustments recorded through cost of
goods sold.  The  correction of this error results in an increase to fiscal 2003
cost of goods sold of $0.3  million  and other  expense of $0.2  million  for an
aggregate  increase  to loss from  continuing  operations  before  taxes of $0.5
million.

      There is no impact on the 2003  balance  sheet as all  precious  metal and
hedges were liquidated during 2003.  However,  as of December 31, 2002 inventory
was reduced by $5.8 million,  other current assets increased by $0.5 million and
accounts  payable  decreased by $5.8  million.  Accordingly,  these 2002 balance
sheet  changes  resulted in  equivalent  changes in the 2003  statement  of cash
flows.

      An adjustment to decrease opening  accumulated deficit by $0.5 million was
recorded in 2003 for the effects of errors prior to 2003.

      LIFE INSURANCE ACCRUAL

      The Company has an Executive  Post-Retirement Life Insurance Program which
provides for life insurance  benefits for certain Company  executives upon their
retirement.  The insurance premium is paid by the Company. The Company accounted
for the cost of this  program  since  its  inception  in 1998 on a pay as you go
basis and did not  follow  the  guidance  as  required  by SFAS 106  "Employers'
Accounting for  Post-Retirement  Benefits Other Than Pensions."  Under SFAS 106,
the Company is required to recognize in its financial  statements an annual cost
and benefit  obligation  related to estimated future benefit payments to be made
to its current  and retired  executives.  Accordingly,  the Company  recorded an
increase to the 2003 opening accumulated deficit of $0.7 million for the effects
of errors prior to 2003 and a decrease in  operating  expenses in the year ended
December 31, 2003 of $0.1 million to reflect a partial  curtailment with respect
to this plan.

      A summary of the impact of the  restatements  noted above on the Company's
consolidated  statements  of  operations,  changes in  stockholders'  equity and
comprehensive loss and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2003 follows:

51

Year Ended December 31, 2003
         (IN THOUSANDS)                                                                        As
                                                                                           Previously
                                                                As          Reclass for     Reported
                                                            Previously     Presentation       with        Goodwill          Tax
                                                             Reported         Purposes       Reclass     Impairment       Matters
                                                            -----------     -----------    -----------   -----------    -----------
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
Cost of sales                                               $   265,001                    $   265,001
Gross profit                                                     61,295                         61,295
Selling, general and administrative expenses                     70,063            (502)        69,561
Goodwill impairment charge                                       89,000                         89,000       (21,657)
Environmental remediation expense                                     -             502            502
Loss from operations                                           (152,156)                      (152,156)       21,657
Other income (expense)                                             (222)                          (222)
Loss from continuing operations before taxes                   (168,011)                      (168,011)       21,657
Income taxes                                                      1,197                          1,197                       12,011
Loss from continuing operations                                (169,208)                      (169,208)       21,657        (12,011)
Net loss                                                       (169,208)                      (169,208)       21,657        (12,011)
Net loss applicable to common stock                            (188,632)                      (188,632)       21,657        (12,011)
Net loss per share - basic and diluted                           (35.08)                        (35.08)         4.03          (2.23)
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
Accumulated other comprehensive loss                            (21,642)                       (21,642)                       5,262
Accumulated deficit                                            (476,187)                      (476,187)        5,877         (5,745)
Stockholders' equity                                             58,885                         58,885         5,877           (483)
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
Net loss                                                       (169,208)                      (169,208)       21,657        (12,011)
Goodwill impairment charge                                       89,000                         89,000       (21,657)
(Gain) loss on derivatives - (unrealized)                             -                              -
Pension - curtailment and special termination benefits           53,215          (5,113)        48,102
Other postretirement benefits                                       413             692          1,105
Inventory                                                        27,139                         27,139
Investment account borrowings                                  (107,857)                      (107,857)
Other current liabilities                                       (38,443)          5,642        (32,801)                         254
Other items-net                                                  (3,407)           (692)        (4,099)
Deferred income taxes                                              (827)                          (827)                      11,757
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities              75,797             530         76,327
Derivative activity                                                    -                              -
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities             (38,884)                       (38,884)
Investment account borrowings                                         -                              -
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities             (13,720)           (530)       (14,250)

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
(DEFICIT) AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
                             Balance at beginning of year       (35,775)                       (35,775)
                                    Current period change        14,133                         14,133                        5,262
                                   Balance at end of year       (21,642)                       (21,642)                       5,262
Accumulated Deficit
                             Balance at beginning of year      (306,979)                      (306,979)      (15,780)         6,265
                                                 Net loss      (169,208)                      (169,208)       21,657        (12,011)
                                   Balance at end of year      (476,187)                      (476,187)        5,877         (5,745)
Comprehensive Loss
                                                 Net loss      (169,208)                      (169,208)       21,657        (12,011)
                         Other comprehensive income (loss)        3,381                          3,381
                     Minimum pension liability adjustment        10,752                         10,752                        5,262
                                       Comprehensive loss      (155,075)                      (155,075)       21,657         (6,749)

                                                                                    Year Ended December 31, 2003
         (IN THOUSANDS)                                                                                       Less
                                                                                                          Discontinued
                                                                                                           Operations
                                                                Investment       Other            As       On Restated     As
                                                                Borrowings      Matters        Restated       Items     Presented
                                                               -----------    -----------     -----------------------------------
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
Cost of sales                                                                       $ 303     $ 265,304     $  35,155   $ 230,149
Gross profit                                                                         (303)       60,992         1,251      59,741
Selling, general and administrative expenses                                         (131)       69,430         6,115      63,315
Goodwill impairment charge                                                                       67,343                    67,343
Environmental remediation expense                                                                   502                       502
Loss from operations                                                                 (172)     (130,671)       (6,347)   (124,324)
Other income (expense)                                                               (190)         (412)       (2,167)      1,755
Loss from continuing operations before taxes                                         (362)     (146,716)       (8,675)   (138,041)
Income taxes                                                                                     13,208                    13,208
Loss from continuing operations                                                      (362)     (159,924)       (8,675)   (151,249)
Net loss                                                                             (362)     (159,924)                 (159,924)
Net loss applicable to common stock                                                  (362)     (179,348)                 (179,348)
Net loss per share - basic and diluted                                              (0.07)       (33.35)                   (33.35)
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                                            (16,380)                  (16,380)
Accumulated deficit                                                                  (599)     (476,654)                 (476,654)
Stockholders' equity                                                                 (599)       63,680                    63,680
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
Net loss                                                                             (362)     (159,924)                 (159,924)
Goodwill impairment charge                                                                       67,343                    67,343
(Gain) loss on derivatives - (unrealized)                                             190           190                       190
Pension - curtailment and special termination benefits                                           48,102                    48,102
Other postretirement benefits                                                        (131)          974                       974
Inventory                                                                          (5,819)       21,320         4,569      16,751
Investment account borrowings                                      107,857                            -                         -
Other current liabilities                                                           5,814       (26,733)       (5,375)    (21,358)
Other Items-net                                                                                  (4,099)                   (4,099)
Deferred income taxes                                                                            10,930                    10,930
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities                107,857           (308)      183,876                   183,876
Derivative activity                                                                   308           308                       308
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities                                   308       (38,576)                  (38,576)
Investment account borrowings                                     (107,857)                    (107,857)                 (107,857)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities               (107,857)                    (122,107)                 (122,107)

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
(DEFICIT) AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
                             Balance at beginning of year                                       (35,775)                  (35,775)
                                    Current period change                                        19,395                    19,395
                                   Balance at end of year                                       (16,380)                  (16,380)
Accumulated Deficit
                             Balance at beginning of year                            (236)     (316,730)                 (316,730)
                                                 Net loss                            (362)     (159,924)                 (159,924)
                                   Balance at end of year                            (599)     (476,654)                 (476,654)
Comprehensive Loss
                                                 Net loss                            (362)     (159,924)                 (159,924)
                         Other comprehensive income (loss)                                        3,381                     3,381
                     Minimum pension liability adjustment                                        16,014                    16,014
                                       Comprehensive loss                            (362)     (140,529)                 (140,529)

RESTATEMENT OF UNAUDITED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      The Company has  restated its  previously  issued  unaudited  consolidated
financial  statements for the quarters  ended March 31, 2004,  June 30, 2004 and
September 30, 2004 (the "Interim Restatement").  The Interim Restatement will be
given full effect in the  financial  statements  to be included in the Company's
Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters  ended March 31, 2005,  June 30,
2005 and September 30, 2005, when they are filed. See Note 19 for details of the
restatements in each of the respective 2004 quarters.

52

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

USE OF ESTIMATES

      The  preparation  of financial  statements  in conformity  with  generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make  estimates  and
assumptions  that affect the reported  amounts of assets and liabilities and the
disclosure of  contingent  assets and  liabilities  at the date of the financial
statements.  Estimates also affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

      Cash and cash  equivalents  include cash on hand and on deposit and highly
liquid debt instruments with original maturities of three months or less.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

      Revenue is  recognized  on the sale of product when the related goods have
been shipped and title and risk of loss has passed to the customer.

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS

      The Company carries its accounts  receivable at their face amounts less an
allowance for doubtful accounts.  On a periodic basis, the Company evaluates its
accounts receivable and establishes the allowance for doubtful accounts based on
a combination of specific customer circumstances and credit conditions and based
on a history of write-offs and collections.

INVENTORIES

      Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.  Cost is determined
by the  last-in  first-out  ("LIFO")  method  for  precious  metal  inventories.
Non-precious  metals  inventories  are stated at the lower of cost  (principally
average cost) or market. For precious metals  inventories,  no segregation among
raw materials, work in process and finished goods is practicable.

DERIVATIVES

      H H enters into  commodity  futures  and  forwards  contracts  on precious
metals that are subject to market  fluctuations in order to  economically  hedge
its precious metals  inventory  against price  fluctuations.  Future and forward
contracts  to sell or buy  precious  metal  are the  derivatives  used  for this
objective.  As these  derivatives are not designated as accounting  hedges under
SFAS 133, they are accounted for as derivatives with no hedge designation. These
derivatives  are marked to market and both  realized  and  unrealized  gains and
losses on these  derivatives  are recorded in current  period  earnings as other
income  (loss).  The  unrealized  gain  or  loss  (open  trade  equity)  on  the
derivatives is included in other current assets or other current liabilities.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

      Depreciation of property,  plant and equipment is provided  principally on
the  straight-line  method over the estimated useful lives of the assets,  which
range  as  follows:  machinery     equipment  3 - 10  years  and  buildings  and
improvements 10 - 30 years.  Interest cost is capitalized for qualifying  assets
during the assets'  acquisition  period.  Maintenance and repairs are charged to
income  and  renewals  and  betterments  are  capitalized.  Profit  or  loss  on
dispositions is credited or charged to operating income.

GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLES

      The Company  adopted the  provisions of Statement of Financial  Accounting
Standards  ("SFAS") No. 142,  "Goodwill and Other Intangible  Assets," effective
January 1, 2002. As a result,  goodwill is no longer  amortized,  but instead is
reviewed  annually for  impairment  in  accordance  with the  provisions of this
statement.  The evaluation of the  recoverability of the unamortized  balance of
goodwill is based on a comparison of the respective  reporting unit's fair value
to its carrying value, including allocated goodwill.  Fair values are determined
by discounting  estimated future cash flows. The  recoverability of goodwill may
be impacted if estimated future operating cash flows are not achieved. Purchased
patents are stated at cost,  which is amortized  over the  respective  remaining
lives of the patents.

53

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

      At December 31, 2004 the Company had six stock-based  compensation  plans,
which are more  fully  described  in Note 13.  These  plans  were  cancelled  in
conjunction  with WHX's  emergence  from  bankruptcy  in July 2005.  The Company
accounted for these plans under the recognition  and  measurement  principles of
Accounting  Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, " Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees," and related interpretations. No stock-based compensation cost for
the issuance of stock options is reflected in net income, as all options granted
under  these  plans  had an  exercise  price  equal to the  market  value of the
underlying common stock on the date of the option grant.

      In 2003 the Company  awarded  80,000 shares of restricted  common stock to
members of the Board of  Directors  at a fair  market  value of $2.48 per share.
These shares vested 1/3 immediately and 1/3 each year thereafter over a two-year
period  and  are  recorded  as a  separate  component  of  Stockholders  Equity.
Compensation  expense related to restricted  stock awards is recognized over the
vesting period.

      The following table  illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per
share if WHX had applied the fair-value  recognition  provisions of Statement of
Financial   Accounting   Standards   No.  123,   "Accounting   for   Stock-Based
Compensation," ("SFAS 123"), to stock-based employee compensation.

(IN THOUSANDS - EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
                                             2005          2004        2003
                                          ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                                   (AS RESTATED)

Net income (loss), as reported
applicable to common shareholders         $  219,564   $ (159,868)  $ (179,348)

Add: Compensation Expense                         33           66           99

Deduct: total stock-based employee
         compensation expense determined
         under fair-value based method
         for all awards                           33          473          710

                                          ----------   ----------   ----------
Pro forma net income (loss)               $  219,564   $ (160,275)  $ (179,959)
                                          ==========   ==========   ==========

Income (loss) per share:
     Basic and diluted - as reported      $    30.36   $   (29.38)  $   (33.35)
     Basic and diluted - Pro forma        $    30.36   $   (29.45)  $   (33.47)

      The  pro-forma  amounts  and the  fair  value  of each  option  grant  are
estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The
following   weighted-average   assumptions   were  used  in  the   Black-Scholes
calculation: expected volatility of 104.2% in 2004, and 98.6% in 2003; risk-free
interest rate of 3.4% in 2004, and 2.4% in 2003, an expected life of 5 years and
a dividend yield of zero. There were no options granted in 2005.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

      The Company accrues for losses associated with  environmental  remediation
obligations when such losses are probable and reasonably estimable. Accruals for
estimated  losses  from  environmental  remediation  obligations  generally  are
recognized no later than completion of the remedial feasibility study.

      Such   accruals   are   adjusted  as  further   information   develops  or
circumstances change. Costs of future expenditures for environmental remediation
obligations   are  not  discounted  to  their  present   value.   Recoveries  of
environmental  remediation  costs from other parties are recorded as assets when
their receipt is deemed probable.

INCOME TAXES

      Income taxes are provided using the asset and liability  method  presented
by SFAS.109,  "Accounting  for Income Taxes"  ("SFAS  109").  Under this method,
income  taxes  (i.e.,  deferred  tax assets,  deferred  tax  liabilities,  taxes
currently  payable/refunds  receivable  and tax expense)  are recorded  based on
amounts refundable or payable in the current year and include the results of any
differences  between U.S. GAAP and tax reporting.  Deferred income taxes reflect
the tax effect of net operating loss  carryforwards,  capital loss carryforwards
and the net tax effects of temporary  differences between the carrying amount of
assets and liabilities for

54

financial  reporting  and income tax purposes,  as determined  under enacted tax
laws and rates.  Valuation allowances are established when management determines
that it is more likely  than not that some  portion or the entire  deferred  tax
asset will not be realized. The financial effect of changes in tax laws or rates
is accounted for in the period of enactment.

EARNINGS PER SHARE

      Pursuant to SFAS 128,  "Earnings per Share," basic  earnings per share are
based on the  weighted  average  number of shares  of Common  Stock  outstanding
during each year, excluding redeemable common shares. Diluted earnings per share
gives effect to dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

      Assets and  liabilities of foreign  subsidiaries  have been  translated at
current  exchange rates,  and related revenues and expenses have been translated
at average  rates of exchange in effect  during the year.  Resulting  cumulative
translation   adjustments  have  been  recorded  as  a  separate   component  of
accumulated other comprehensive income.

RECLASSIFICATION

      Certain  amounts for prior years have been  reclassified to conform to the
current year presentation.

NOTE 2 -VOLUNTARY PETITION UNDER CHAPTER 11 OF U.S. BANKRUPTCY CODE

      On March 7, 2005, WHX Corporation filed a voluntary petition  ("Bankruptcy
Filing") to reorganize  under Chapter 11 of the United  States  Bankruptcy  Code
with the United States  Bankruptcy  Court for the Southern  District of New York
(the  "Bankruptcy  Court").  WHX continued to operate its businesses and own and
manage its properties as a  debtor-in-possession  under the  jurisdiction of the
Bankruptcy  Court  and in  accordance  with  the  applicable  provisions  of the
Bankruptcy  Code  until it  emerged  from  protection  under  Chapter  11 of the
Bankruptcy Code on July 29, 2005 (see below).

      WHX's  primary  business  is H H,  a  diversified  manufacturing  company.
Neither H H nor any of WHX's other  subsidiaries  or affiliates were included in
WHX's Bankruptcy  Filing. All of H H's operating units conducted business in the
ordinary course during the  bankruptcy.  WHX's  Bankruptcy  Filing was primarily
intended  to reduce  WHX's debt,  simplify  its  capital  structure,  reduce its
overall cost of capital and provide it with better access to capital markets.

      On March 7, 2005, WHX also filed a proposed Plan of  Reorganization of WHX
Corporation (as amended, the "Plan") and a related proposed disclosure statement
(as amended,  the "Disclosure  Statement") with the Bankruptcy Court. On June 7,
2005, WHX filed its first amended Chapter 11 Plan. On June 8, 2005 WHX filed its
second amended Disclosure Statement.

      On July 21, 2005, WHX Corporation's  Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization was
confirmed by the U. S. Bankruptcy  Court for the Southern  District of New York.
The Plan became effective on July 29, 2005 ("Effective Date").

      The  Bankruptcy  Filing  created an event of default  under the  Indenture
governing  WHX's 10 1/2% Senior Notes (the  "Senior  Notes") due April 15, 2005.
Under the terms of the Senior Notes, as a result of the Bankruptcy  Filing,  the
entire unpaid principal and accrued interest (and any other additional  amounts)
became immediately due and payable without any action on the part of the trustee
or the note holders.  The principal amount outstanding under the Senior Notes at
March 7, 2005 was approximately $92.8 million. Accrued interest to March 7, 2005
was approximately $3.8 million.

      The  following is a summary of certain  material  features of the Plan and
the Confirmation Order. On the Effective Date:

o     All of WHX's outstanding securities, including WHX's pre-bankruptcy filing
      common stock,  Series A preferred  stock,  Series B preferred stock and 10
      1/2% Senior Notes were deemed  cancelled and annulled  without further act
      or action.

o     In full and complete satisfaction of all such claims,  holders of WHX's 10
      1/2% Senior Notes received  9,200,000 shares of common stock  representing
      their prorated share of the reorganized  company.  These shares  represent
      92% of the equity in the reorganized company.

o     In  full  and  complete  satisfaction  of all  such  interests,  Series  A
      preferred   stockholders   received   366,322   shares  of  common   stock
      representing  their prorated share of the reorganized  company and 344,658
      warrants to purchase common stock of the reorganized company,  exercisable
      at $11.20 per share and expiring on February 28, 2008.

o     In  full  and  complete  satisfaction  of all  such  interests,  Series  B
      preferred   stockholders   received   433,678   shares  of  common   stock
      representing  their prorated share of the reorganized  company and 408,030
      warrants to purchase common stock of the reorganized company,  exercisable
      at $11.20 per share and expiring on February 28, 2008.

o     Holders  of  WHX's   pre-bankruptcy   filing  common  stock   received  no
      distribution under the Plan.

55

The  common  stock  received  by  the  Series  A and  Series  B  preferred
stockholders,  collectively,  represents  8% of the  equity  in the  reorganized
company.   The  warrants   issued  to  the  Series  A  and  Series  B  preferred
stockholders,  collectively, represent the right to purchase an additional 7% of
the equity of the reorganized company after giving effect to the exercise of the
warrants.

      On the  Effective  Date,  all of the  assets  of WHX  were  vested  in the
reorganized  company  free and clear of all liens,  causes of  actions,  claims,
encumbrances,  equity interests,  and interests against,  in, or on such assets,
except  as  explicitly  provided  in the Plan.  Preferred  stock  dividends  and
interest on WHX's debt of $11.7  million  accrued from March 7, 2005 to July 29,
2005 and were not included as a claim of the bankruptcy proceedings.

      The reorganization  value of the assets of WHX immediately before the date
of  confirmation  of the Plan was  greater  than the total of all  post-petition
liabilities  and  allowed  claims.  As a result the  Company did not qualify for
Fresh-Start  reporting in  accordance  with the American  Institute of Certified
Public Accountants  Statement of Position 90-7, "Financial Reporting by Entities
in  Reorganization  Under the  Bankruptcy  Code".  Accordingly,  the  assets and
liabilities of the reorganized company upon emergence from bankruptcy  continued
to be reported at their historical values.

      Upon its emergence from  bankruptcy on July 29, 2005,  WHX  experienced an
ownership  change as defined by Section 382 of the Internal  Revenue Code, which
imposes   annual   limitations   on  the   utilization  of  net  operating  loss
carryforwards  post ownership change.  The Company believes it qualifies for the
bankruptcy  exception  to  the  general  Section  382  limitations.  Under  this
exception,  the  annual  limitation  imposed by Section  382  resulting  from an
ownership  change will not apply,  instead the net operating loss  carryforwards
must  be  reduced  by  certain   interest  expense  paid  creditors  who  became
stockholders  as a result  of the  bankruptcy  reorganization.  Thus,  WHX's net
operating loss  carryforwards  of $116.0 million as of December 31, 2004 will be
reduced  by  approximately   $31.0  million  to  approximately   $85.0  million.
Additionally,  if WHX should undergo a second  ownership change within two years
of the date of change  as a result  of the  reorganization,  its  remaining  net
operating  losses  would  be  reduced  to zero.  Accordingly,  in order to avoid
subsequent  ownership  changes,  WHX's new charter contains a 5% ownership limit
pursuant to which certain transfers of WHX's shares will be limited.

      Since the  Effective  Date,  H H and its  subsidiaries  have  continued to
conduct their businesses in the ordinary course.

NOTE 3 -RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

      On September 29, 2006 , the Financial  Accounting Standards Board ("FASB")
issued SFAS No. 158, Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement  Plans (SFAS  158") which  amends SFAS 87 and SFAS 106 to require
recognition  of the  overfunded  or  underfunded  status  of  pension  and other
postretirement  benefit plans on the balance  sheet.  Under SFAS 158,  gains and
losses,  prior service costs and credits,  and any remaining  transition amounts
under  SFAS 87 and SFAS  106 that  have  not yet  been  recognized  through  net
periodic  benefit cost will be recognized  in  accumulated  other  comprehensive
income,  net of tax  effects,  until they are  amortized  as a component  of net
periodic  cost.  SFAS 158 is effective  for  publicly-held  companies for fiscal
years ending after  December 15, 2006.  WHX  Corporation  will adopt the balance
sheet recognition  provisions of SFAS 158 at December 31, 2006. For illustrative
purposes,  we have  considered  the impact of these  provisions  at December 31,
2005,  our most  recent  measurement  date.  At that  time,  our  balance  sheet
reflected a reduction in shareholder  equity of approximately $65 million due to
our defined  benefit  pension and other  postretirement  benefit plans.  The new
provisions of SFAS 158 would have resulted in an additional $1 million reduction
to WHX  Corporation's  shareholders'  equity at December 31, 2005. The Statement
does not affect the results of operations

      In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements"
SFAS No. 157 defines fair value,  establishes  a framework  for  measuring  fair
value in accordance with accounting  principles generally accepted in the United
States, and expands  disclosures about fair value  measurements.  This statement
does not require any new fair value measurements; rather, it applies under other
accounting  pronouncements that require or permit fair value  measurements.  The
provisions  of SFAS No. 157 are  effective  for  fiscal  years  beginning  after
November 15,  2007.  The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157 to
have a material  impact on the  Company's  consolidated  financial  position  or
results of operations.

      In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB  Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes" an Interpretation of FASB Statement 109 ("FIN 48"),
which  clarifies  the  accounting  for   uncertainty  in  tax  positions.   This
Interpretation  provides that the tax effects from an uncertain tax position can
be recognized in our financial  statements,  only if the position is more likely
than not of being  sustained  on  audit,  based on the  technical  merits of the
position.  The  provisions of FIN 48 are effective as of the beginning of fiscal
2007, with the cumulative effect of the change in accounting  principle recorded
as an adjustment to opening retained earnings.  We are currently  evaluating the
impact of adopting FIN 48 on our financial statements.

      In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  "Accounting  Changes and Error
Corrections,"  which replaces APB Opinion No. 20, "Accounting  Changes" and FASB
Statement No. 3, "Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements."
SFAS

56

No.  154  requires   retrospective   application  to  prior  periods'  financial
statements  for  voluntary   changes  in  accounting   principle  unless  it  is
impracticable.  SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections
of errors made in fiscal years beginning after June 1, 2005.

      In  December  2004,  the FASB  issued a  revised  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards No. 123,  "Share-Based  Payment"  ("SFAS No.  123").  This
statement eliminates the intrinsic value method as an allowed method for valuing
stock  options   granted  to  employees.   Under  the  intrinsic  value  method,
compensation  expense was  generally  not  recognized  for the issuance of stock
options. The revised statement requires compensation expense to be recognized in
exchange  for the  services  received  based  on the fair  value  of the  equity
instruments on the grant-date.  This statement  became effective for the Company
as of  January  1, 2006,  and did not have a  material  impact on the  Company's
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

      In  December  2004,  the FASB issued  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards  No. 151,  "Inventory  Costs - an amendment of ARB No. 43,  Chapter 4"
("SFAS No.  151").  SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in ARB No. 43 and clarifies
accounting  for abnormal  amounts of idle facility  expense,  freight,  handling
costs, and wasted material (spoilage). The statement requires that certain items
that may have  previously  been  included in inventory  costs be  recognized  as
current-period  charges  regardless  of whether  they meet the  criterion of "so
abnormal".  SFAS  No.  151  also  requires  allocation  of  fixed  manufacturing
overheads  to the  costs of  conversion  based  on the  normal  capacity  of the
manufacturing facilities. This statement becomes effective for the Company as of
January 1, 2006. The Company adopted the provision of SFAS No. 151 on January 1,
2006,  and its adoption did not have a  significant  effect on its  consolidated
financial statements.

      In  January  2004,  the FASB  issued  FASB Staff  Position  No. FAS 106-1,
"Accounting  and Disclosure  Requirements  Related to the Medicare  Prescription
Drug,  Improvement and Modernization  Act of 2003" (FSP 106-1).  The FSP permits
employers that sponsor postretirement benefit plans (plan sponsors) that provide
prescription  drug  benefits to  retirees  to make a one-time  election to defer
accounting for any effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug,  Improvement,  and
Modernization  Act of 2003 (the "Act").  Without the FSP, plan sponsors would be
required under Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers'
Accounting for Postretirement  Benefits Other Than Pensions", to account for the
effects of the Act in the fiscal period that includes December 8, 2003, the date
the President signed the Act into law. FASB Staff Position No. 106-2 (FSP 106-2)
includes  guidance  on  recognizing  the  effects of the new  legislation  under
various  conditions  surrounding  the assessment of "actuarial  equivalence"  of
subsidies  under the Act. FSP 106-2 is effective for the first interim or annual
period  beginning after June 15, 2004 with earlier  application  permitted.  The
adoption  of FSP  106-2 on July 1,  2004 did not have a  material  impact on the
Company's financial statements.

NOTE 4 - WPC GROUP BANKRUPTCY

      Wheeling-Pittsburgh  Corporation  ("WPC")  and  six  of  its  subsidiaries
(collectively  referred to as the "WPC  Group"),  including  Wheeling-Pittsburgh
Steel Corporation ("WPSC"), a vertically integrated  manufacturer of value-added
and flat  rolled  steel  products,  was a wholly  owned  subsidiary  of WHX.  On
November 16, 2000, the WPC Group filed a petition seeking  reorganization  under
Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. As a result of this
bankruptcy  filing,  as of November 16,  2000,  the Company  deconsolidated  the
balance sheets of the WPC Group. A Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization for the WPC
Group (the "WPC POR") was confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court on June 18, 2003 and
was  consummated on August 1, 2003.  Pursuant to the terms of the WPC POR, among
other things, the WPC Group ceased to be a subsidiary of WHX effective August 1,
2003, and from that date forward has been an independent company.

      As part of the WPC POR, the Company  agreed to make certain  contributions
(the  "WHX   Contributions")   to  the  reorganized   company.   Under  the  WHX
Contributions,  the Company  forgave the repayment of its claims against the WPC
Group of  approximately  $39.0  million and,  additionally,  contributed  to the
reorganized company $20.0 million of cash, for which the Company received a note
in the amount of $10.0  million.  The note was fully  reserved upon receipt.  On
March 6, 2003, the PBGC published its Notice of Determination  ("Notice") and on
March 7, 2003  filed a Summons  and  Complaint  ("Complaint")  in United  States
District  Court for the Southern  District of New York  seeking the  involuntary
termination of the WHX Pension Plan (the "WHX Plan"),  a defined benefit pension
plan  sponsored  by the Company  that  provides  pension  benefits to active and
retired  employees  of WHX and H H and  certain  benefits  to active and retired
employees of members of the WPC Group.  WHX filed an answer to this complaint on
March 27, 2003,  contesting  the PBGC's  action.  On July 24, 2003,  the Company
entered  into  an  agreement  among  the  PBGC  ,  WPC,  WPSC,  and  the  United
Steelworkers of America,  AFL-CIO-CLC ("USWA") in settlement of matters relating
to the PBGC V. WHX  CORPORATION,  Civil  Action  No.  03-CV-1553,  in the United
States  District  Court  for the  Southern  District  of New York  ("Termination
Litigation"), in which the PBGC was seeking to terminate the WHX Plan. Under the
settlement,  among  other  things,  WHX agreed  (a) that the WHX Plan,  as it is
currently  constituted,  is a single  employer  pension plan,  (b) to contribute
funds to the WHX Plan equal to moneys spent (if any) by WHX or its affiliates to
purchase  WHX  10.5%  Senior  Notes  ("Senior  Notes")  in  future  open  market
transactions,  and (c) to grant to the PBGC a pari passu security interest of up
to $50.0  million in the event WHX  obtains  any future  financing  on a secured
basis or provides any security or collateral for the Senior Notes.

57

Also under the  settlement,  all parties  agreed that as of the  effective
date of the WPC POR,  (a) no shutdowns  had occurred at any WPC Group  facility,
(b) no member of the WPC Group is a  participating  employer under the WHX Plan,
(c)  continuous  service for WPC Group  employees  was broken,  (d) no WPC Group
employees will become  entitled to "Rule of 65" or "70/80"  Retirement  Benefits
(collectively,  "Shutdown  Benefits")  by reason of events  occurring  after the
effective  date of the WPC POR, and (e) the WHX Plan would provide for a limited
early retirement option to allow up to 650 WPSC  USWA-represented  employees the
right to receive retirement benefits based on the employee's years of service as
of  July  31,  2003  with a  monthly  benefit  equal  to $40  multiplied  by the
employee's years of service.

      Finally,  under  the  settlement,  the PBGC  agreed  (a)  that,  after the
effective  date of the WPC POR, if it  terminates  the WHX Plan at least one day
prior  to a WPC  Group  facility  shutdown,  WHX  shall  be  released  from  any
additional  liability to PBGC resulting  from the shutdown,  (b) to withdraw its
claims in the WPC  Bankruptcy  Proceedings,  and (c) to dismiss the  Termination
Litigation.

      A pre-tax,  non-cash charge for the cost of early retirement incentives of
$11.5  million  was  recognized  in the  third  quarter  of  2003  as a  special
termination  benefit  in  accordance  with  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 88,  "Employers'  Accounting for Settlement  and  Curtailments  of
Defined  Benefit  Pension Plans and for  Termination  Benefits"  ("SFAS 88"). In
addition,  a  curtailment  occurred  as a result of the break in service for WPC
Group employees that resulted in a pre-tax,  non-cash charge of $36.6 million in
the third quarter of 2003, pursuant to SFAS 88.

      For WHX Plan  funding  purposes,  the  impact of the  changes  will not be
recognized  until the next actuarial  valuation  which occurred as of January 1,
2004. The funding requirements depend on many factors including those identified
above  as well as  future  investment  returns  on WHX Plan  assets.  WHX made a
contribution to the WHX Plan of $6.0 million in 2004.

      The agreement  with the PBGC also contains the provision that WHX will not
contest a future action by the PBGC to terminate the WHX Plan in connection with
a future WPC Group facility shutdown.  In the event that such a plan termination
occurs,  the PBGC has agreed to  release  WHX from any  claims  relating  to the
shutdown. However, there may be PBGC claims related to unfunded liabilities that
may exist as a result of a termination of the WHX Plan.

      In connection  with past collective  bargaining  agreements by and between
the WPC Group and the USWA,  the WPC Group  was  obligated  to  provide  certain
medical  insurance,  life insurance,  disability and surviving spouse retirement
benefits to retired employees and their dependents ("OPEB Obligations"). WHX was
not a signatory to any of those  agreements.  However,  WHX had  previously  and
separately  agreed  to  be  contingently  liable  for  a  portion  of  the  OPEB
Obligations.  WHX's contingent obligation would have been triggered in the event
that the WPC Group  failed to satisfy  its OPEB  Obligations.  WHX's  contingent
obligation  was  limited  to  25%  of the  Accumulated  Post-Retirement  Benefit
Obligation with respect to the WPC Group's employees and retirees represented by
the USWA.  WPSC's total OPEB  Obligation  at January 1, 2003 was estimated to be
$314.1  million.  WHX has  estimated  that  approximately  85% of employees  and
retirees  entitled to such OPEB  Obligations  are  represented by the USWA. As a
result of the  consummation of the WPC POR, WHX's  contingent  liability for the
OPEB Obligation was eliminated.

      As a  result  of the  consummation  of the WPC POR  and  the  related  WHX
Contributions, the remaining balance in the loss in excess of investment account
of $0.5 million was reversed into income in the third quarter of 2003.

NOTE 5 - DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND BUSINESS RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

      In 2004 the Company  evaluated the current operating plans and current and
forecasted  operating  results of its wire   cable business.  In accordance with
Statement  of  Financial   Accounting  Standards  Number  144,  "Accounting  for
Impairment  or  Disposal  of  Long-Lived   Assets"  ("SFAS  144"),  the  Company
determined that there were indicators of impairment as of June 30, 2004 based on
continued  operating  losses,  deteriorating  margins,  and rising raw  material
costs.  An estimate of future cash flows indicated that as of June 30, 2004 cash
flows would be  insufficient  to support the  carrying  value of the  long-lived
assets of the  business.  Accordingly,  these  assets were written down to their
estimated  fair value by recording a non-cash  asset  impairment  charge of $3.9
million in the second quarter.  In November 2004, the Company  announced that it
had signed a non-binding  letter of intent to sell its wire business and that it
was negotiating  the sale of its steel cable business.  The decision to sell was
based on the continued cash flow drain on the Company caused by these businesses
from further increases in operating losses, deteriorating margins and rising raw
material costs.  Based on the proposed terms of these  transactions  the Company
recorded an additional asset impairment charge of $4.3 million. At that time the
Company  stated that if it were unable to complete these sales it would consider
the closure of these  operations.  On January 13, 2005,  the Company  determined
that a sale of these operations could not be completed on terms  satisfactory to
the Company.  Accordingly,  the Company decided to permanently  close the wire  
cable businesses. The affected operations are located in Cockeysville,  Maryland
and Oriskany, New York.

      In the fourth quarter of 2004 H H  communicated to its 146 union employees
the plan to either sell or close the wire and cable business.  Accordingly,  H H
recorded a  restructuring  charge of $1.2 million for  termination  benefits and
related costs. These termination benefits were paid in 2005. Additionally,  $0.4
million was recorded as a restructuring charge for clean up costs related

58

to the Cockeysville, Maryland facility. The Company operated these facilities on
a  limited  basis in the  first  quarter  of 2005 in order to  fulfill  customer
commitments.  Operating  losses and closure  costs  incurred in 2005 amounted to
$4.2 million  including a $0.7 million gain on the sale of certain  fixed assets
and $0.9 million in termination benefits.  Accordingly, the estimated total cost
including termination  benefits,  operating losses (excluding fixed asset gains)
and closure costs will be approximately $6.5 million. These costs will be funded
from  realization of working  capital and proceeds from the sale of fixed assets
of these  businesses.  In the second quarter of 2005 we concluded all operations
of the wire   cable  business.  Accordingly,  these  businesses  are reported as
discontinued  operations.  In 2006 the Company sold land, buildings, and certain
machinery     equipment  relating  to  these  businesses  for $7.3  million  and
recognized a gain on these sales of $4.5 million.

      Operating results of discontinued operations were as follows:

(IN THOUSANDS)

                                         2005           2004           2003
                                     ------------   ------------   ------------
                                                                   (AS RESTATED)

Net Sales                            $     10,672   $     38,958   $     36,406

Gross profit (loss)                        (1,997)        (3,522)         1,251

Asset impairment charge                        --          8,175             --

Restructuring charge                        2,255          1,576             --

Gain (loss) on sale of fixed assets           681             --         (1,483)

Operating  Loss                            (4,063)       (18,361)        (6,347)

Interest/other expense (a)                    144            137          2,328

Net Loss                                   (4,207)       (18,498)        (8,675)

(a) Included in 2003 interest/other  expense is $2.2 million foreign translation
loss associated with the facility that was disposed of.

The  following  is a summary of the  carrying  amounts  of the major  classes of
assets and  liabilities  of the wire  business at December 31, 2005 and 2004 (in
thousands):

                                                     2005              2004
                                                 ------------     ------------
Current assets                                   $        181     $     15,595

Property, plant and equipment                           2,794            3,589

Total assets                                            2,975           19,184

Total liabilities                                         581            4,855

Net assets                                              2,394           14,329

      During  April 2002,  H H  decided to exit  certain of its  precious  metal
manufacturing activities.  The affected product lines were manufactured at H H's
Fairfield,  CT and East  Providence,  RI facilities.  The decision to exit these
operating  activities resulted in a restructuring charge of $12.0 million in the
year ended  December 31,  2002.  This charge  included  $6.6 million in employee
separation expenses (approximately 251 employees, substantially all of whom were
terminated by June 30, 2003); $0.6 million of contractual obligations,  and $4.8
million  in  costs to close  the  facilities,  including  refining  charges  for
inventory  remaining  after  operations  ceased.  An additional  $2.9 million of
associated  costs were incurred  during 2003. Such costs are not included in the
aforementioned restructuring charge.

59

The Company received $8.0 million in 2003 for the sale of certain property
associated with the Fairfield facility. The Company recorded a $3.9 million loss
on the sale of property in 2003. In  connection  with this sale of the Fairfield
facility  the  Company  was   responsible   for  demolition  and   environmental
remediation of the site, the estimated cost of which was included in the loss on
sale  recorded  in 2003.  H H  determined  that an  increase  in the reserve for
environmental  remediation was needed in the amount of $28.3 million,  which was
recorded in the fourth quarter of 2004. This change in reserve was caused by the
discovery  of  underground  debris  and  soil  contaminants  that  had not  been
anticipated.  These additional  costs are included in environmental  remediation
expense.  The Company retains title to a parcel of land adjacent to the property
sold in 2003.  This parcel is classified  as other  non-current  assets,  in the
amount of $2.0 million,  on the consolidated  balance sheet at December 31, 2005
and 2004.

NOTE 6 - PENSIONS, OTHER POSTRETIREMENT AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS

      The Company maintains  several  qualified and non-qualified  pension plans
and  other  postretirement  benefit  plans  covering  substantially  all  of its
employees.  The Company's pension,  health care benefit and significant  defined
contribution plans are discussed below. The Company's other defined contribution
plans are not significant individually or in the aggregate.

QUALIFIED PENSION PLANS

      The  Company's   defined  benefit  plan,  the  WHX  Pension  Plan,  covers
substantially  all WHX and H H employees  and certain  employees of WHX's former
subsidiary,  WPC. The WHX Pension Plan was  established in May 1998, as a result
of the merger of the former Handy   Harman plans,  which  covered  substantially
all H H employees, and the WPC plan. The WPC plan, covering most USW represented
employees  of WPC was created  pursuant  to a  collective  bargaining  agreement
ratified on August 12, 1997. Prior to that date,  benefits were provided through
a  defined   contribution  plan,  the   Wheeling-Pittsburgh   Steel  Corporation
Retirement Security Plan ("RSP"). The assets of the RSP were merged into the WPC
plan as of  December  1,  1997.  Under the terms of the WHX  Pension  Plan,  the
benefit  formula and  provisions for the WPC and H H  participants  continued as
they were designed under each of the respective plans prior to the merger.

      The qualified  pension  benefits under the WHX Pension Plan were frozen as
of December 31, 2005 and April 30, 2006 for hourly and  salaried  non-bargaining
participants,  respectively,  with the exception of a single  operating  unit. A
related curtailment charge of $0.5 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of
2005.  Future  benefits  for the  impacted  employees  will be provided  through
additional contributions to the defined contribution plan.

      As  discussed  in  Note  4,  WPC  Group  employees  ceased  to  be  active
participants  in the WHX Pension  Plan  effective  July 31, 2003 and as a result
such  employees will no longer accrue  benefits under the WHX Plan.  Pursuant to
the provisions of SFAS 88, this event  constituted a curtailment of the WHX Plan
and  required  WHX  to  revalue  the  pension  liability  as of  July  31,  2003
("re-measurement date"). The curtailment resulted in a pre-tax,  non-cash charge
to income of $36.6 million in the third quarter of 2003.

      In addition,  a special  termination benefit was provided to 540 WPC Group
employees.  In the third  quarter of 2003,  WHX  recognized a non-cash,  pre-tax
charge of $11.5 million relating to this benefit.

      The December 31, 2005 valuation  resulted in a minimum  liability of $65.6
million, which is $18.9 million greater than the amount recorded at December 31,
2004.  Additionally,  the December 31, 2005 valuation  resulted in a decrease to
the intangible  asset of $0.9 million.  As a result WHX recorded a corresponding
charge to other comprehensive income of $19.8 million.

      Pension  benefits  for the WHX and H H  participants  included  in the WHX
Pension Plan are based on years of service and the amount of compensation at the
time of retirement. However, as noted above, the qualified pension benefits were
frozen for most participants.

      Pension benefits for the WPC participants include both defined benefit and
defined contribution features, since the plan includes the account balances from
the RSP. The gross  benefit,  before  offsets,  is calculated  based on years of
service and the benefit  multiplier  under the plan.  This gross  amount is then
offset for the benefits payable from the RSP and benefits payable by the Pension
Benefit  Guaranty  Corporation  from  previously  terminated  plans.  Individual
employee  accounts  established  under the RSP are maintained until  retirement.
Upon  retirement,  participants  who are  eligible  for the WHX Pension Plan and
maintain  RSP account  balances  will  normally  receive  benefits  from the WHX
Pension Plan.  When these  participants  become  eligible for benefits under the
Plan,  their  vested  balances in the RSP Plan become  assets of the WHX Pension
Plan. Aggregate account balances held in trust in individual employees' accounts
totaled $125 million at December 31, 2005. Such individual  account balances can
only be utilized to fund all or a portion of the respective  individual's  gross
pension  benefit as determined by the defined  benefit plan's  benefit  formula.
These assets cannot be utilized to fund any of the net benefit that is the basis
for determining  the defined  benefit plan's benefit  obligation at December 31,
2005.

60

The  Company's  funding  policy is to  contribute  annually an amount that
satisfies the minimum funding standards of ERISA. Prior to 2004, the Company had
not been required to make any such  contributions due to the plan's fully funded
status. The Company contributed $1.2 million and $6.0 million to the WHX Pension
Plan in 2005 and 2004 respectively. As more fully described in Note 1a, in 2006,
the  Company  applied to the IRS for a funding  waiver  with  respect to the WHX
Pension Plan.

      In addition to the WHX Pension  Plan,  H H provided  pension  coverage for
employees of its former U.K. subsidiary through a separate plan governed by U.K.
statutory requirements.  In 2004, H H liquidated its former U.K. subsidiary with
no further obligation to contribute to its pension plan.

      The  measurement  date for plan  obligations  is December 31. The discount
rate is the rate at which the plan's  obligations  could be effectively  settled
and is based on high quality bond yields as of the measurement date.

The following table presents a  reconciliation  of beginning and ending balances
of the projected benefit obligation.

                                             Domestic Plan                    Foreign Plan
                                     -----------------------------     ----------------------------
                                         2005             2004             2005            2004
                                     ------------     ------------     ------------    ------------
                                                             (IN THOUSANDS)

Benefit obligation at January 1      $    410,186     $    388,464     $         --    $     10,405
Service cost                                1,244              978               --              --
Interest cost                              23,007           24,326               --              --
Actuarial loss                             23,455           30,101               --              --
Benefits paid                             (34,223)         (41,267)              --              --
Plan amendments - implementation               --              820               --              --
Curtailments                               (1,079)              --               --              --
Liquidation of subsidiary                      --               --               --         (10,405)
Transfers from RSP                          1,464            6,764               --              --
                                     ------------     ------------     ------------    ------------
Benefit obligation at December 31    $    424,054     $    410,186     $         --    $         --
                                     ============     ============     ============    ============

The following  table presents the beginning-of-year and end-of-year  accumulated
benefit obligation.

                                                        Domestic Plan                    Foreign Plan
                                                 ----------------------------    ----------------------------
                                                     2005            2004            2005            2004
                                                 ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
                                                                        (IN THOUSANDS)
Accumulated benefit obligation at January 1      $    408,852    $    386,990    $         --    $     10,405
Accumulated benefit obligation at December 31         424,054         408,852              --              --

The following table presents weighted-average assumptions used to determine
benefit obligations at December 31,

                                       Domestic Plan            Foreign Plan
                                     -----------------       ------------------
                                      2005       2004        2005          2004
                                     -----------------       ------------------

Discount rate                        5.50%       5.75%        N/A           N/A
Rate of compensation increase        4.00%       4.00%        N/A           N/A

61

The following table presents a  reconciliation  of beginning and ending balances
of the fair value of plan assets.

                                                    Domestic Plan                     Foreign Plan
                                            -----------------------------     ----------------------------
                                                2005             2004             2005             2004
                                            ------------     ------------     ------------    ------------
                                                                    (IN THOUSANDS)

Fair value of plan assets at January 1      $    343,374     $    339,310     $         --    $      5,807
Actual returns on plan assets                     30,444           32,543               --              --
Benefits paid                                    (34,223)         (41,267)              --              --
Company contributions                              1,178            6,024               --              --
Liquidation of subsidiary                             --               --               --          (5,807)
Transfers from RSP                                 1,464            6,764               --              --
                                            ------------     ------------     ------------    ------------
Fair value of plan assets at December 31    $    342,237     $    343,374     $         --    $         --
                                            ============     ============     ============    ============

Funded status                               $    (81,817)    $    (66,812)    $         --    $         --
Unrecognized prior service cost                      586            1,450               --              --
Unrecognized actuarial loss                       65,015           46,576               --              --
Unrecognized transition obligation                    --               --               --              --
                                            ------------     ------------     ------------    ------------
Net amount recognized                       $    (16,216)    $    (18,786)    $         --    $         --
                                            ============     ============     ============    ============

      Employer  contributions  consist of funds paid from employer assets into a
qualified pension trust account.

      WHX's domestic pension plan weighted-average asset allocations at December
31, 2005 and 2004, by asset category, are as follows:

                                                             Plan Assets
                                                        2005            2004
                                                    ------------    -----------
ASSET CATEGORY
Equity Securities                                             42%            39%
Debt Securities                                                6%             8%
Convertible Securities                                         8%             8%
Cash                                                           5%             1%
Other (Hedge Funds)                                           39%            44%
                                                    ------------    -----------
   Total                                                     100%           100%
                                                    ============   ============

      The  Company's  investment  policy is to maximize the total rate of return
with a view to long-term  funding  objectives of the pension plan to ensure that
funds are available to meet benefit obligations when due. The three to five year
objective of the Plan is to achieve a rate of return that exceeds the  Company's
expected earnings rate by 150 basis points at prudent levels of risk.  Therefore
the pension plan assets are diversified to the extent necessary to minimize risk
and to achieve an optimal balance  between risk and return.  There are no target
allocations.  The Plan's assets are diversified as to type of assets, investment
strategies  employed,  and number of investment  managers used.  Investments may
include equities,  fixed income, cash equivalents,  convertible securities,  and
hedge funds.  Derivatives  may be used as part of the investment  strategy.  The
Company may direct the transfer of assets between  investment  managers in order
to  rebalance  the  portfolio in  accordance  with asset  allocation  guidelines
established by the Company.

The funded  status of the  plans,  reconciled  to the  amounts  reported  on the
balance sheet, follows.

62

The following table provides the amount  recognized in the consolidated  balance
sheets as of December 31:

                                                  Domestic Plan                    Foreign Plan
                                          -----------------------------     ----------------------------
                                              2005             2004             2005            2004
                                          ------------     ------------     ------------    ------------
                                                                   (IN THOUSANDS)

Accrued pension liability                 $    (16,216)    $    (18,786)    $         --    $         --
Additional minimum pension liability           (65,601)         (46,692)              --              --
Intangible pension asset                           586            1,450               --              --
Accumulated other comprehensive income          65,015           45,242               --              --
                                          ------------     ------------     ------------    ------------
Net liability recognized                  $    (16,216)    $    (18,786)    $         --    $         --
                                          ============     ============     ============    ============

The following table presents the components of net periodic pension cost.

                                                Domestic Plan                         Foreign Plan
                                      ----------------------------------     --------------------------------
                                        2005         2004         2003         2005        2004        2003
                                      --------     --------     --------     --------    --------    --------
                                                                   (IN THOUSANDS)

Service cost                          $  1,244     $    978     $  4,182     $     --    $     --    $    250
Interest cost                           23,007       24,326       22,129           --          --         563
Expected return on plan assets         (27,775)     (27,947)     (24,590)          --          --        (383)
Amortization of prior service cost         155           86        3,393                       --          --
Recognized actuarial loss                1,268           --           --           --          --         279
Amortization of unrecognized
  transition obligation                     --           --           --           --          --           4
                                      ----------------------------------     --------------------------------
                                        (2,101)      (2,557)       5,114           --          --         713
                                      ----------------------------------     --------------------------------
Curtailment  loss (a)                      709           --       36,629           --          --          --
Special termination benefit charge          --           --       11,472           --          --          --
                                      ----------------------------------     --------------------------------
                                      $ (1,392)    $ (2,557)    $ 53,215     $     --    $     --    $    713
                                      ==================================     ================================

(a) $232 of the  curtailment  loss in 2005 relates to the Wire Group and as such
is included in net loss of discontinued operations.

The following table presents weighted-average  assumptions used to determine net
periodic benefit cost for years ended December 31,

                                           Domestic Plan                              Foreign Plan
                                  ------------------------------------    ----------------------------------
                                  2005        2004           2003         2005          2004           2003
                                  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discount rate                     5.75%       6.25%          6.75% (a)     N/A           N/A           5.60%
Expected return on assets         8.50%       8.50%          8.50%         N/A           N/A           7.00%
Rate of compensation increase     4.00%       4.00%          4.00%         N/A           N/A           3.40%

(a)   discount rate of 6.75%  applied for the period  January 1 through July 31,
      2003.  The  discount  rate  was  changed  to 6.50%  for the  remeasurement
      effective August 1, 2003.

      In  determining  the  expected  long-term  rate of return on  assets,  the
Company evaluated input from its investment consultants, investment managers and
actuaries.  In addition, the Company considered its historical compound returns,
which have been in excess of the Company's  forward-looking returns. The Company
determines its actuarial  assumptions for its pension and post retirement plans,
after consultation with its actuaries,  on December 31 of each year to calculate
liability information as of that date and pension and

63

postretirement  expense for the following  year. The discount rate assumption is
derived from the rate of return on high-quality  bonds as of December 31 of each
year.

CONTRIBUTIONS

      The estimated  minimum  funding  requirements  for the WHX Pension Plan in
2006,  2007,  2008 and through 2011 are $20.6 million,  $2.7 million,  $0.0, and
$16.7 million  respectively.  Cash funding  requirements are developed  annually
from actuarial valuations in accordance with ERISA. Inherent in these valuations
are assumptions including discount rates,  mortality,  retirement,  turnover and
expected  long-term  rates of return on plan  assets.  Material  changes in cash
funding requirements may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions
or if certain assumptions are not realized. At the present time the Company does
not have funds  available to make the 2006  minimum  funding  requirements.  The
Company  has  applied to the IRS for a funding  waiver for the 2005 and the 2006
plan years, but the IRS has since limited this request to the 2005 plan year. If
granted,  this waiver  would  change the minimum  funding  requirements  to $9.9
million,  $10.0 million, $7.9 million and $18.3 million in 2006, 2007, 2008, and
through 2011, respectively.

BENEFIT PAYMENTS

      Estimated  future benefit payments for the WHX Pension Plan are as follows
(in thousands):

                              2006         $ 34,523
                              2007           32,625
                              2008           32,310
                              2009           32,067
                              2010           31,952
                       2011 - 2015          151,843

NON-QUALIFIED PENSION PLANS

      In addition to the  aforementioned  benefit plans, H H has a non-qualified
pension  plan for certain  current and retired  employees.  On March 4, 2005 WHX
adopted the WHX Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective as
of February 1, 2004, which provides for specified benefits to be paid to certain
of its  employees.  The WHX Corporate  Supplemental  Executive  Retirement  Plan
(SERP)  benefits were settled as of August 5, 2005,  in accordance  with SFAS 88
and this plan was terminated on December 29, 2005.

      The measurement date for plan obligations is December 31.

The following table presents a  reconciliation  of beginning and ending balances
of the projected benefit obligation for these non-qualified plans.

                                                         2005           2004
                                                      ----------     ----------
                                                           (IN THOUSANDS)

Benefit obligation at January 1                       $    2,475     $    1,101
Service cost                                                 135            194
Interest cost                                                 93            130
Actuarial (gain) loss                                        (43)           141
Plan implementation                                           --            919
Benefits paid                                               (569)           (10)
Adjustment due to legal settlement                          (540)            --
Curtailment                                                 (612)            --
                                                      ----------     ----------
Benefit obligation at December 31                     $      939     $    2,475
                                                      ==========     ==========

64

The following  table presents the beginning-of-year and end-of-year  accumulated
benefit obligation.

                                                        2005              2004
                                                       -------           -------
                                                            (In Thousands)
Accumulated benefit obligation at January 1            $ 1,060           $   553
Accumulated benefit obligation at December 31              627             1,060

The following  table  presents  weighted-average  assumptions  used to determine
benefit obligations at December 31,

2005          2004
                                         ---------     ---------

Discount rate                                 5.50%         5.75%
H H rate of compensation increase             5.00%         5.00%
WHX rate of compensation increase             4.00%         4.00%

The funded  status of the  plans,  reconciled  to the  amounts  reported  on the
balance sheets as of December 31 follows:

                                                      2005             2004
                                                  ------------     ------------
                                                         (IN THOUSANDS)
Projected benefit obligation                      $       (939)    $     (2,475)
Fair value of assets                                        --               --
                                                  ------------     ------------
Funded status                                             (939)          (2,475)
Unrecognized prior service cost                             87            1,068
Unrecognized loss                                          110              166
                                                  ------------     ------------
Net amount recognized                             $       (742)    $     (1,241)
                                                  ============     ============

The following table presents the amounts recognized in the consolidated  balance
sheets for these non-qualified plans as of December 31:

                                                      2005             2004
                                                  ------------     ------------
                                                         (IN THOUSANDS)

Accrued pension liability                         $       (742)    $     (1,241)
Additional minimum pension liability                        --             (310)
Intangible pension asset                                    --              310
Accumulated other comprehensive income                      --               --
                                                  ------------     ------------
Net liability recognized                          $       (742)    $     (1,241)
                                                  ============     ============

65

The following table presents the components of net periodic pension cost for the
non-qualified pension plans.

                                                   2005        2004       2003
                                                 -------     -------    -------
                                                         (IN THOUSANDS)

Service Cost                                     $   135     $   194    $    98
Interest Cost                                         93         130         58
Amortization of Prior Service Cost                    51          84         23
Amortization of Actuarial Gain (loss)                  3          --        (16)
Special Termination Benefit                           --          --        570
Curtailment-net                                      243          --         --
Adjustment due to legal settlement                  (456)         --         --
Other                                                 13          --         --
                                                 -------     -------    -------
                                                 $    82     $   408    $   733
                                                 =======     =======    =======

The following table presents weighted-average  assumptions used to determine net
periodic benefit cost for years ended December 31,

2005        2004        2003
                                          --------------------------------

Discount rate                                 5.75%       6.25%       6.25%
H H rate of compensation increase             5.00%       5.00%       5.00%
WHX rate of compensation increase             4.00%       4.00%       4.00%

CONTRIBUTIONS

      The non-qualified plan is not funded.  Employer contributions are equal to
annual benefit payments.

BENEFIT PAYMENTS

      There are no future benefits to be paid from the WHX non-qualified pension
plan.  Estimated  future benefit  payments for the Handy   Harman  non-qualified
plan are as follows (in thousands):

2006              389
                            2007                6
                            2008                5
                            2009                5
                            2010                5
                     2011 - 2015               22

401(K) PLANS

      Certain H H employees  participate in an H H sponsored savings plan, which
qualifies  under Section 401(k) of the Internal  Revenue Code. This savings plan
allows  eligible  employees  to  contribute  from 1% to 15% of their income on a
pretax basis.  H H matches 50% of the first 3% of the  employee's  contribution.
Until  the 4th  Quarter  of 2004,  most of  H H's  matching  contributions  were
invested in shares of WHX common stock and became immediately vested.  After the
4th Quarter of 2004,  all  matching  contributions  were in cash.  The charge to
operations  for the Company's  matching  contribution  amounted to $0.7 million,
$0.7 million, and $0.7 million, for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

      The number of shares of the Company's  pre-bankruptcy  filing common stock
held by the H H 401(k) plan was  465,277  and  353,734 at December  31, 2004 and
2003, respectively. On July 21, 2005, WHX Corporation's Chapter 11 Plan of

66

Reorganization  was  confirmed  by the U. S.  Bankruptcy  Court for the Southern
District of New York.  The Plan became  effective on July 29,  2005.  Holders of
WHX's  pre-bankruptcy  filing common stock  received no  distribution  under the
Plan.

OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

      Certain current and retired employees of H H are covered by postretirement
medical benefit plans.  The benefits  provided are for medical and  prescription
drugs.  Contributions from a majority of the participants are required,  and for
those retirees and spouses the Company's payments are capped.

      The measurement date for plan obligations is December 31.

      The  following  table  presents a  reconciliation  of beginning and ending
balances of the Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation ("APBO"):

                                                              2005        2004
                                                            -------     -------
                                                               (IN THOUSANDS)

APBO at January 1,                                          $ 8,621     $ 8,527
Service cost                                                     69          61
Interest cost                                                   493         521
Actuarial loss                                                2,039         596
Plan amendments                                              (2,128)         --
Benefits paid (net)                                          (1,218)     (1,084)
Medicare part D recognition                                    (422)         --
                                                            -------     -------
APBO at December 31,                                        $ 7,454     $ 8,621
                                                            =======     =======

The above H H other post-retirement benefit plans are unfunded.

The following  table  presents  weighted-average  assumptions  used to determine
benefit obligations at December 31,

                                                           2005            2004
                                                           --------------------

Discount rate                                              5.50%           5.75%
Health care cost trend rate - initial                      9.00%          10.00%
Health care cost trend rate - ultimate                     5.00%           5.00%
Year ultimate is reached                                   2010            2008

      Three of the Company's  subsidiaries  amended their other post  retirement
benefit  plans  in  2005  to  cease  providing  prescription  drug  benefits  to
participants older than age 65. The adjustments  recognized as a result of these
amendments  in 2005 were $2.1  million,  of which $0.3 million will be amortized
through net  periodic  cost in 2006.  At the end of 2005,  one of the  Company's
subsidiaries provided prescription drug benefits which were at least actuarially
equivalent to Medicare part D and applied for the government subsidy in 2005

      At December 31, 2005, the health care cost trend rate was 9% decreasing to
an ultimate  rate of 5% by the year 2010.  A one  percentage  point  increase in
healthcare  cost  trend  rates  in each  year  would  increase  the  accumulated
postretirement  benefit  obligation  as of December 31, 2005 by $0.7 million and
the  aggregate of the service cost and interest  cost  components of 2005 annual
expense by $56,000.  A one percentage  point  decrease in healthcare  cost trend
rates  in each  year  would  decrease  the  accumulated  postretirement  benefit
obligation  as of December  31, 2005 by $0.6  million and the  aggregate  of the
service cost and interest cost components of 2005 annual expense by $46,000.

67

The following table presents the amounts recognized in the consolidated  balance
sheets for this plan as of December 31:

                                                      2005             2004
                                                  ------------     ------------
                                                         (IN THOUSANDS)

Funded Status                                     $     (7,454)    $     (8,621)
Unrecognized Prior Service Cost                         (1,257)             988
Unrecognized Actuarial Loss                              1,591               --
                                                  ------------     ------------
Net amount recognized                             $     (7,120)    $     (7,633)
                                                  ============     ============

The  following  table  presents  the  components  of net  periodic  cost for the
postretirement medical benefit plans:

                                                  2005        2004         2003
                                                 -----       -----        -----
                                                        (IN THOUSANDS)

Service Cost                                     $  69       $  61        $  37
Interest Cost                                      493         521          475
Amortization of Prior Service Cost                 109         109           18
Amortization of Actuarial Gain                      35         (21)        (158)
                                                 -----       -----        -----
                                                 $ 706       $ 670        $ 372
                                                 =====       =====        =====

Weighted average  assumptions used to determine net postretirement  cost for the
three years ended December 31 were as follows:

                                           2005           2004           2003
                                        -----------    -----------   ----------
Discount rate                              5.75%          6.25%          6.25%
Health care cost trend rate - initial      10.00%         10.00%        10.00%
Health care cost trend rate - ultimate     5.00%          5.00%          5.00%
Year ultimate is reached                    2008           2007          2006

CONTRIBUTIONS

      Employer  contributions  are expected to be $0.7 million for the 2006 plan
year.

BENEFIT PAYMENTS

      Expected benefit payments are as follows (in thousands):

                              2006              661
                              2007              654
                              2008              577
                              2009              542
                              2010              509
                       2011 - 2015            2,342

      One of the  Company's  postretirement  welfare  plans is  affected  by The
Medicare  Prescription  Drug,  Improvement  and  Modernization  Act of 2003 (the
"Act").  Beginning  in 2006,  the Act  provides  a federal  subsidy  payment  to
companies  providing  benefit plans that meet certain  criteria  regarding their
generosity.  The Company expects to receive those subsidy payments.  The Company
has accounted for the Act in accordance  with FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106-2,
which required, in the Company's case, recognition on July 1, 2004. The adoption
of FSP 106-2 on July 1,  2004 did not have a  material  impact on the  Company's
financial  statements.  The effect of the Medicare Part D subsidy is expected to
reduce the Company's future contributions by approximately 14%.

      The Company has an Executive  Post-Retirement Life Insurance Program which
provides for life insurance  benefits equal to three and one half times payroll,
as defined for certain Company executives upon their retirement.  Under FAS 106,
the Company is

68

required to recognize  in its  financial  statements  an annual cost and benefit
obligation  related  to  estimated  future  benefit  payments  to be made to its
current and retired  executives.  Funding for these  obligations are made by the
Company

The following table presents a  reconciliation  of beginning and ending balances
of the Executive Life Insurance Obligation ("APBO"):

                                                       2005             2004
                                                   ------------     ------------
                                                          (IN THOUSANDS)

APBO at January 1,                                 $        842     $        600
Service cost                                                121               99
Interest cost                                                55               44
Actuarial  loss                                              74               99
Curtailment                                                (193)              --
                                                   ------------     ------------
APBO at December 31,                               $        899     $        842
                                                   ============     ============

Weighted  average  assumptions  used to determine the executive  life  insurance
benefit obligations at December 31 were as follows:

                                         2005           2004           2003
                                     -------------  -------------  ------------
Discount rate                            5.50%          5.75%          6.25%

The following table presents the amounts recognized in the consolidated  balance
sheets for this plan as of December 31:

                                                      2005             2004
                                                  ------------     ------------
                                                         (IN THOUSANDS)

Funded Status                                     $       (899)    $       (842)
Unrecognized loss                                           --               99
                                                  ------------     ------------
Net amount recognized                             $       (899)    $       (743)
                                                  ============     ============

The  following  table  presents  the  components  of net  periodic  cost for the
Executive Life Insurance Obligation:

                                         2005           2004           2003
                                      ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                                   (AS RESTATED)
                                                   (IN THOUSANDS)

Service Cost                          $      121     $       99     $      174
Interest Cost                                 55             44             70
Curtailment                                  (21)            --           (378)
Amortization of Actuarial Loss                 1             --              3
                                      ----------     ----------     ----------
                                      $      156     $      143     $     (131)
                                      ==========     ==========     ==========

Weighted average  assumptions used to determine the executive life insurance net
periodic cost for the years ended December 31 were as follows:

                                        2005           2004           2003
                                    -------------  -------------  ------------
Discount rate                           5.75%          6.25%          6.75%
Rate of compensation increase           4.00%          4.00%          4.00%

69

CONTRIBUTIONS

      No employer contributions are expected to be made for the 2006 plan year.

BENEFIT PAYMENTS

      Expected benefit payments are as follows (in thousands):

                               2006               --
                               2007              704
                               2008               --
                               2009               --
                               2010               --
                        2011 - 2015               --

NOTE 7 - INCOME TAXES

      The  provision  for (benefit  from) income taxes for the three years ended
December 31 is as follows:

                                                     2005          2004           2003
                                                  ----------    ----------     ----------
                                                                              (AS RESTATED)
                                                              (IN THOUSANDS)

INCOME TAXES
Current
              Federal tax provision               $       --    $       --     $       --
              State tax provision                      1,392         1,544          1,400
              Foreign tax provision                      651           426            303
                                                  ----------    ----------     ----------
                    Total income taxes current         2,043         1,970          1,703
                                                  ----------    ----------     ----------
Deferred
              Federal tax provision                      258           258         11,620
              State tax provision (benefit)               37           (64)          (226)
              Foreign tax provision                        4             8            111
                                                  ----------    ----------     ----------
Income tax provision                              $    2,342    $    2,172     $   13,208
                                                  ==========    ==========     ==========

COMPONENTS OF TOTAL INCOME TAXES
Continuing operations                             $    2,342    $    2,172     $   13,208
Discontinued operations                                   --            --             --
                                                  ----------    ----------     ----------
Income tax provision                              $    2,342    $    2,172     $   13,208
                                                  ==========    ==========     ==========

      There is no tax provision associated with discontinued  operations,  since
such operations were  generating tax losses in the  jurisdictions  in which they
operated and due to the Company's loss position in these same jurisdictions, the
Company does not anticipate realizing a benefit associated with the discontinued
operations tax losses.

70

Deferred  income taxes result from temporary  differences in the financial
reporting  basis and tax basis of assets and  liabilities.  The amounts shown on
the  following  table  represent  the total  differences  between the  Company's
consolidated  tax return basis of assets and liabilities  and the  corresponding
basis for financial reporting.

DEFERRED INCOME TAX SOURCES

                                                            2005         2004
                                                          --------     --------
                                                              (IN THOUSANDS)
ASSETS
Postretirement and postemployment employee benefits       $  2,590     $  2,872
Net operating loss carryforwards                            42,105       40,594
Capital loss carryforward                                    1,394        1,394
Additional minimum pension liability                        22,755       15,791
Minimum tax credit carryforwards                             1,850        1,850
Inventory                                                    2,315          400
Pension                                                      5,675        6,575
Environmental costs                                         10,028       10,731
Accrued expenses                                             3,323        3,330
Miscellaneous other                                            538          342
                                                          --------     --------
Deferred tax assets                                         92,573       83,879
                                                          --------     --------

LIABILITIES
Property plant and equipment                                (4,551)      (4,116)
Intangible assets                                           (1,616)      (1,358)
State income taxes                                            (620)        (583)
Foreign - net                                                 (123)        (119)
                                                          --------     --------
Deferred tax liability                                      (6,910)      (6,176)
                                                          --------     --------
Valuation allowance                                        (88,022)     (79,763)
                                                          --------     --------
Net deferred income tax liability                         $ (2,359)    $ (2,060)
                                                          ========     ========

      Net  deferred  tax  assets  amounting  to $88.0  million  have been  fully
reserved  since,  in the opinion of management,  it is more likely than not that
such tax benefits will not be realized in future  periods.  Included in deferred
tax assets at December  31, 2005 are federal net  operating  loss  carryforwards
(NOL's) of $120.3 million.  These NOL's expire between 2006 and 2025. Management
performs a  periodic  evaluation  of  deferred  tax  assets and will  adjust the
valuation allowance as circumstances  warrant.  Also included in deferred income
tax assets is a capital loss  carryforward of $4.0 million related  primarily to
the sale of the WPC $10.0 million note.

      Upon  its  emergence  from  bankruptcy  on  July  29,  2005,  the  Company
experienced  an  ownership  change as  defined by  Section  382 of the  Internal
Revenue  Code,  which  imposes  annual  limitations  on the  utilization  of net
operating carryforwards post ownership change. The Company believes it qualifies
for the bankruptcy exception to the general Section 382 limitations.  Under this
exception,  the  annual  limitation  imposed by Section  382  resulting  from an
ownership change will not apply.  Instead,  the net operating loss carryforwards
must be  reduced  by  certain  interest  expense  paid to  creditors  who became
stockholders as a result of the bankruptcy  reorganization.  Thus, the Company's
net  operating  losses of $120.3  million  as of  December  31,  2005  reflect a
reduction of $31.0 million. Additionally, if the Company should undergo a second
ownership   change  within  two  years  of  July  29,  2005  (the  date  of  the
reorganization)  its remaining net operating losses would effectively be reduced
to  zero.  Accordingly,  in order to avoid  subsequent  ownership  changes,  the
Company's new charter  contains a 5% ownership  limit  pursuant to which certain
transfers of the Company's shares will be limited.

      In 2003,  WHX reduced its minimum  pension  liability  with  corresponding
credits to other comprehensive income and intangible pension asset. The deferred
tax asset of $13.4 million associated with this reduction in the minimum pension
liability was charged to other  comprehensive  income. In addition,  the Company
established a valuation  allowance  against the $5.3 million  deferred tax asset
related to the remaining minimum pension liability. This valuation allowance was
charged to the 2003 deferred tax provision.

      Deferred income taxes have not been provided on the undistributed earnings
of foreign subsidiaries.  These earnings have been permanently  reinvested,  and
the Company  does not plan to initiate  any action  that would  precipitate  the
payment of income taxes thereon.  In 2005 and 2004, the Company had $4.2 million
and $3.8 million, respectively of undistributed foreign earnings.

71

Total  state and  foreign  income  taxes paid in 2005,  2004,  and 2003 by
continuing  operations  were  $1.9  million,  $1.0  million,  and $0.6  million,
respectively.

      For Federal income tax purposes,  the statute of limitations  for audit by
the  Internal  Revenue  Service  ("IRS")  is open for years 2002  through  2005.
Management believes it has adequately provided for all taxes on income.

      The  provision  for  income  taxes  differs  from the amount of income tax
determined by applying the applicable U.S.  statutory Federal income tax rate to
pretax income as follows:

                                                                       Year Ended December 31
                                                               2005             2004             2003
                                                           ----------------------------------------------
                                                                                            (AS RESTATED)
                                                           ----------------------------------------------
                                                                           (IN THOUSANDS)

Loss from continuing operations before taxes               $    (28,108)    $   (119,774)    $   (138,041)
Discontinued operations                                          (4,207)         (18,498)          (8,675)
                                                           ------------     ------------     ------------
Loss before taxes                                          $    (32,315)    $   (138,272)    $   (146,716)
                                                           ============     ============     ============

Tax benefit at statutory rate                              $    (11,310)    $    (48,395)    $    (51,351)
Increase (decrease)  in tax due to:
   Equity earnings of foreign affiliates                            (77)             (44)             (34)
   Non deductible goodwill impairment charge                         --           27,926           23,570
   State income tax, net of Federal effect                          942              940              684
   Increase in valuation allowance                               12,084           24,958           46,999
   Sale of WPC note                                                  --           (3,500)              --
   Net effect of foreign tax rate                                   537              114              179
   Benefit of current year losses of
     non-consolidated subsidiary (WPC)                               --               --           (7,095)
   Other                                                            166              173              256
                                                           ------------     ------------     ------------
Tax provision                                              $      2,342     $      2,172     $     13,208
                                                           ============     ============     ============

      The WPC Group was included in the  consolidated  Federal income tax return
of WHX  through  August 1,  2003,  after  which the WPC Group  filed a  separate
Federal income tax return.

NOTE 8 - SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS

      In the first  quarter of 2003 the Company  purchased an aircraft for $19.3
million,  which it sold in the  first  quarter  of 2004 for $19.3  million.  The
aircraft is  included  in other  current  assets on the  Company's  consolidated
balance sheet at December 31, 2003.

72

NOTE 9 - INVENTORIES

                                                                               December 31
                                                                          2005             2004
                                                                      ------------     ------------
                                                                            (IN THOUSANDS)

Finished products                                                     $     17,804     $     16,366
In-process                                                                   4,851            6,199
Raw materials                                                               19,226           18,931
Fine and fabricated precious metal in various stages of completion          24,266           17,093
                                                                      ------------     ------------
                                                                            66,147           58,589
LIFO reserve                                                                (5,169)            (285)
                                                                      ------------     ------------
                                                                      $     60,978     $     58,304
                                                                      ============     ============

      During 2003 precious metal inventory quantities were reduced, resulting in
liquidations of LIFO  inventories.  This reduction  resulted in a liquidation of
LIFO  inventory  quantities  carried at lower  costs  prevailing  in prior years
compared with the cost of 2003 purchases,  the effect of which increased pre-tax
income by  approximately  $0.9 million.  The operating  income for 2004 and 2003
includes a non-cash  charge to cost of goods  sold  resulting  from the lower of
cost or  market  adjustment  to  precious  metal  inventories  in the  amount of
approximately $1.0 million and $1.6 million, respectively.

      Certain  customers and suppliers of the H H Precious  Metal Segment choose
to do business on a "toll" basis.  Such customers and suppliers furnish precious
metal to H H for return in fabricated form (customer metal) or for purchase from
or return to the supplier.  When the  customer's  precious  metal is returned in
fabricated form, the customer is charged a fabrication charge. The value of this
toll precious  metal is not included in the Company's  balance  sheet.  Up until
March 2004,  the Company  maintained a consignment  arrangement  with respect to
most of its  precious  metal  inventory.  Consequently,  to the extent  that the
quantity of customer  and supplier  precious  metal,  as well as precious  metal
owned by the Company,  did not meet  operating  needs,  the Company would either
consign or buy precious metal. At December 31, 2003,  1,605,000 ounces of silver
and 14,617 ounces of gold were  consigned to the Company under this  consignment
facility. The weighted-average  consignment rates under the Consignment Facility
for gold and silver were 4.75% and 4.58% per annum, respectively at December 31,
2003, based on the market value of the related  consigned  precious metal.  This
consignment  facility  was  terminated  on  March  30,  2004  and H H  purchased
approximately $15.0 million of precious metal.

The  following  table   summarizes   customer  toll  and  owned  precious  metal
quantities:

                                                            December 31
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                        2005             2004
                                                    ------------    ------------

Silver ounces:
  Customer metal                                          79,442         124,000
  H H owned metal                                      1,537,900       1,347,900
                                                    ------------    ------------
        Total                                          1,617,342       1,471,900
                                                    ============    ============

Gold ounces:
  Customer metal                                             305           1,347
  H H owned metal                                         19,417          14,617
                                                    ------------    ------------
        Total                                             19,722          15,964
                                                    ============    ============

Palladium ounces:
  Customer metal                                           1,060           1,296
                                                    ============    ============

Supplemental inventory information:

                                                          December 31
                                                  ----------------------------
                                                      2005            2004
                                                  ------------    ------------
                                                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER OUNCE)

Precious metals stated at LIFO cost               $     19,097    $     16,807
Market value per ounce:
   Silver                                                8.910           6.845
   Gold                                                 516.00          435.60
   Palladium                                            255.00          184.00

73

NOTE 10 - PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

                                                            December 31
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                         2005            2004
                                                    ------------    ------------
                                                           (IN THOUSANDS)

Land                                                $      7,490    $      7,398
Buildings, machinery and equipment                       151,764         138,141
Construction in progress                                   8,115           5,965
                                                    ------------    ------------
                                                         167,369         151,504
Accumulated depreciation and amortization                 76,219          67,039
                                                    ------------    ------------
                                                    $     91,150    $     84,465
                                                    ============    ============

      Depreciation  expense for continuing  operations for the years 2005,  2004
and 2003 was $12.7 million, $12.5 million and $12.7 million, respectively.

NOTE 11 - GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES

      Goodwill consisted of the following at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:

The changes in the  carrying  amount of goodwill by  reportable  segment for the
year ended December 31, 2005 were as follows:

(IN THOUSANDS)

                                 Precious                Engineered
                                  Metals      Tubing      Materials       Total
                                ---------    ---------   ----------    ---------

Balance as of January 1, 2005   $      --    $   1,895    $  47,551    $  49,446
Impairment loss                        --           --           --           --
                                ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
Balance at December 31, 2005    $      --    $   1,895    $  47,551    $  49,446
                                =========    =========    =========    =========

The changes in the  carrying  amount of goodwill by  reportable  segment for the
year ended December 31, 2004 were as follows:

(IN THOUSANDS)

                                         Precious                     Engineered
                                          Metals         Tubing        Materials      Total
                                        ----------     ----------     ----------    ----------
Balance as of January 1, 2004           $   45,630     $   36,404     $   47,551    $  129,585
Impairment loss                            (45,630)       (34,158)            --       (79,788)
Adjustment to pre-aquisition reserve                           --             --            --
Pre acquisition foreign NOL utilized            --           (351)            --          (351)
                                        ----------     ----------     ----------    ----------
Balance at December 31, 2004            $       --     $    1,895     $   47,551    $   49,446
                                        ==========     ==========     ==========    ==========

74

The changes in the  carrying  amount of goodwill by  reportable  segment for the
year ended December 31, 2003 were as follows:

(IN THOUSANDS)

                                           Precious           Wire           Engineered
                                            Metals            Tubing          Materials          Total
                                        -------------     -------------     -------------    -------------
Balance as of January 1, 2003           $      83,992     $      65,598     $      47,551    $     197,141
Impairment loss                               (38,362)          (28,981)               --          (67,343)
Pre acquisition foreign NOL utilized               --              (213)               --             (213)
                                        -------------     -------------     -------------    -------------
Balance at December 31, 2003            $      45,630     $      36,404     $      47,551    $     129,585
                                        =============     =============     =============    =============

      There was no  goodwill  impairment  in 2005.  The  Company  conducted  the
required annual goodwill  impairment review for 2004, and with the assistance of
a third party  specialist  computed  updated  valuations for each reporting unit
using a discounted cash flow approach and market approach.  Based on the results
of this review the Company recorded a $79.8 million non-cash goodwill impairment
charge relating to the following businesses: $34.2 million for specialty tubing,
$45.6 million for precious  metals.  The Company  recorded these charges because
the fair value of goodwill, as determined by estimated cash flow projections and
data on market  comparables,  was less than the reporting units' carrying value.
The  decrease in value was related to a reduction  in the  projection  of future
profitability,  increased  working  capital  requirements,  and  changes  in the
discount rates.

      In 2003 the Company recorded a $67.3 million non-cash goodwill  impairment
charge relating to the following businesses: $29.0 million for specialty tubing,
and $38.3 million for precious metal plating. The Company recorded these charges
because  the fair  value of  goodwill,  as  determined  by  estimated  cash flow
projections, was less than the reporting units' carrying value.

      As of December  31, 2005 and 2004,  the Company had $0.6  million and $0.5
million,  respectively,  of other intangible  assets,  which will continue to be
amortized over their remaining useful lives ranging from 3 to 17 years.

NOTE 12 - DEBT

Debt at December 31, 2005 and 2004 is as follows:

                                                        Year Ended December 31
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                        2005            2004
                                                    ------------    ------------
                                                          (IN THOUSANDS)

WHX Senior Notes due 2005, 10 1/2%                  $         --    $     92,820
H H Term Loan - related party                             70,627              --
H H Credit Facility - Term Loan A                         22,664          19,301
H H Term Loan - Term Loan B                                   --          71,000
Other H H debt                                             5,352           6,535
                                                    ------------    ------------
                                                          98,643         189,656
Less portion due within one year                          93,754         183,629
                                                    ------------    ------------
Total long-term debt                                $      4,889    $      6,027
                                                    ============    ============

      The fair value of the above debt at December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $98,643
and $185,015,  respectively. Fair value of the Senior Notes was based on trading
in the public market (in 2004).  The fair value of the remaining  long term debt
approximates its carrying cost due to variable interest rates.

      With the  exception  of Other H H debt,  all debt has been  classified  as
current  due to  noncompliance  with  certain  debt  covenants.  Should the debt
holders choose not to demand payments as a result of noncompliance  with certain
covenants, long term debt maturing in each of the next five years is as follows:
2006 $4,458;  2007 $89,762:  2008 $469;  2009 $473;  2010 $454;  and  thereafter
$3,027.

75

A summary  of the  financial  agreements  at  December  31,  2005 and 2004
follows:

WHX CORPORATION 10 1/2% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2005:

      The WHX 10 1/2% Senior  Notes in the amount of $92.8  million  were due on
April 15, 2005.  The  Bankruptcy  Filing  created an event of default  under the
Indenture  governing the Senior Notes. Under the terms of the Senior Notes, as a
result of the  Bankruptcy  Filing,  the  entire  unpaid  principal  and  accrued
interest (and any other additional  amounts) became  immediately due and payable
without  any  action  on the  part of the  trustee  or the note  holders.  As of
December 31, 2004 the principal  amount  outstanding  under the Senior Notes was
approximately $92.8 million. Accrued interest to March 7, 2005 was approximately
$3.8 million. The right of note holders to seek remedies to enforce their rights
under the Senior Notes  described above was stayed as a result of the Bankruptcy
Filing, and other creditors' rights of enforcement are subject to the applicable
provisions of the Bankruptcy  Code. Note holders had no claims or rights against
any of WHX's  subsidiaries.  Pursuant  to the Plan and  Bankruptcy  Filing,  the
Senior Notes were deemed cancelled and annulled, and its holders received shares
of new WHX common stock equal to 92% of the equity in the  reorganized  company.
See Note 2.

      During 2003,  the Company  purchased and retired  $17.7 million  aggregate
principal  amount of the Notes in the open  market  resulting  in a gain of $3.0
million.

HANDY   HARMAN CREDIT FACILITIES

      On March 31,  2004,  H H entered  into a revolving  credit  facility  (the
"Revolver")  and a $22.2  million  Term A Loan with  Wachovia  Capital  Finance,
formerly  Congress  Financial  Corporation,  as  agent  and  lender,  ("Wachovia
Facilities") and a $71.0 million Term B Loan with Ableco Finance LLP ("Ableco").
On October 29, 2004 the Term B Loan was assigned to Canpartners  Investments IV,
LLC ("Canpartners").

      The Revolver  provided for up to $62.9 million of borrowings  dependent on
the levels of and collateralized by eligible accounts  receivable and inventory.
The Revolver  provided  for  interest at LIBOR plus 2.75% or the U.S.  Base rate
plus 1.00%.  An  amendment  to the  facility on  December  29, 2004  lowered the
margins on the Revolver to LIBOR plus 2.25% or the U.S.  Base Rate plus 0.5% The
Wachovia  Facilities mature on March 31, 2007. The Term A Loan is collateralized
by eligible  equipment and real estate,  and provided for interest at LIBOR plus
3.25% or the prime rate plus 1.5%.  An amendment to the facility on December 29,
2004 lowered the margins on the Term Loan A to LIBOR plus 2.5% or the U.S.  Base
Rate plus .75%.  Borrowings under the Wachovia  Facilities are collateralized by
first priority security interests in and liens upon all present and future stock
and assets of H H and its subsidiaries  including all contract  rights,  deposit
accounts,  investment property,  inventory,  equipment,  real property,  and all
products and proceeds  thereof.  The  principal of the Term A Loan is payable in
monthly   installments  of  $0.3  million.   The  Wachovia   Facilities  contain
affirmative,  negative,  and  financial  covenants  (including  minimum  EBITDA,
maximum  leverage,   and  fixed  charge  coverage,   and  restrictions  on  cash
distributions  that can be made to WHX).  On May 20,  2005,  H H entered into an
amendment  to  the  Loan  and  Security   Agreement  with  Wachovia   ("Wachovia
Amendment"). The Wachovia Amendment provided for amendments to certain financial
covenants,  up to an additional equipment loan of $3 million, as well as certain
other terms and conditions.  On September 8, 2005, H H entered into an amendment
to the Wachovia Facilities. This amendment provides for, among other things, (i)
the  revision of the  calculation  of  components  of the  borrowing  base which
results in an  increase  in  availability  and (ii) the  increase of the current
outstanding amount of the Term A loan to $22.2 million.  The amended Term A Loan
originally  required  monthly  payments  of $0.3  million.  The  Term A Loan was
reduced  by the  proceeds  received  from the sale of H H's  Wire  group.  As of
September  30,  2006 the  amount  outstanding  was $13.7  million  with  monthly
payments of $0.2 million.  On December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2006,  H H had
approximately $7.7 million and $11.7 million,  respectively,  of funds available
under the Revolver.

      On December  29,  2005,  H H entered  into an  amendment  to the  Wachovia
Facilities. This amendment provides for, among other things, (i) the increase of
the borrowing base by $3.5 million  through January 31, 2006, (ii) the waiver of
certain  defaults and (iii)  certain  related  amendments to the  covenants.  On
January 24,  2006,  H H entered  into a consent and  amendment  to the  Wachovia
Facilities.  This  consent  and  amendment  was made in  connection  with a loan
agreement  entered  into by  H H's  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  OMG,  Inc.,  with
Sovereign Bank dated as of January 24, 2006 collateralized by a mortgage on OMG,
Inc.'s  real  property  pursuant  to which an $8.0  million  term  loan was made
available to OMG,  Inc. This consent and  amendment  provides  for,  among other
things,  amending certain definitions to reflect the loan agreement entered into
by OMG, Inc.

      On  March  31,  2006,  H H  entered  into  an  amendment  to the  Wachovia
Facilities.  This  amendment  provided for,  among other things,  consent to the
increase  of the Term B Loan on the same  date in the  principal  amount of $9.0
million  and the  prepayment  of a portion  of H H's  subordinated  intercompany
promissory note issued to WHX (the "WHX Note") in the principal

76

amount of $9.0 million.  After the payment of $9.0 million by H H, WHX converted
the remaining intercompany note balance to equity.

      In connection with the  refinancing of the H H credit  facilities in March
2004, the Company wrote off deferred financing fees of $1.2 million. This charge
is classified as loss on early retirement of debt.

      The Term B Loan matures on March 31, 2007 and provides for annual payments
based on 40% of excess  cash flow as  defined  in the  agreement.  Interest  was
payable  monthly  at the Prime  Rate plus 8%. At no time will the Prime  Rate of
interest  be below  4%.  The Term B  Facility  has a  second  priority  security
interest in and lien on all assets of H H, subject only to the prior lien of the
Wachovia Facilities.  The Term B facility contains  affirmative,  negative,  and
financial covenants (including minimum EBITDA, maximum leverage and fixed charge
coverage,  restrictions on cash  distributions that can be made to WHX and cross
default provisions with the Wachovia Facilities).

      On October 29, 2004,  Handy   Harman completed the assignment of its $71.0
million Term B Loan from Ableco, as agent, and the existing lenders thereto,  to
Canpartners  Investments  IV, LLC  ("Canpartners"),  an entity  affiliated  with
Canyon Capital Advisors LLC, as agent and lender. Substantially all of the terms
and conditions of the term loan continued without amendment,  with the principal
exception  that the  interest  rate for the loan was  reduced by 4.0% per annum,
effective October 29, 2004. In connection with the assignment,  the Company paid
third  party fees of  approximately  $1.8  million.  These fees are  included in
interest expense.

      On May 20,  2005,  H H entered  into an amendment to the Loan and Security
Agreement with Canpartners ("Canpartners Amendment").  The Canpartners Amendment
provided for amendments to certain financial  covenants as well as certain other
terms and conditions.  On September 8, 2005, H H completed the assignment of its
approximately $70.6 million Term B Loan from Canpartners,  to Steel Partners II,
L.P.  ("Steel"),  as  agent  and  lender.  Substantially  all of the  terms  and
conditions  of  the  Term  B  Loan  continue  without  amendment.  Steel  is the
beneficial   holder  of  5,029,793   shares  of  the  Company's   common  stock,
representing  approximately 50% of the outstanding shares.  Warren Lichtenstein,
the sole executive  officer and managing member of Steel Partners,  L.L.C.,  the
general  partner of Steel Partners II, L.P., is the Chairman of the Board of the
Company.

      On December  29,  2005,  H H entered  into an amendment to its Term B Loan
with Steel. This amendment provides for, among other things, (i) the increase of
the Term B Loan in January 2006 by $10 million, to $81 million,  (ii) the waiver
of certain  defaults and (iii) certain related  amendments to the covenants.  On
January 24, 2006,  H H entered into a consent and  amendment to its Term B Loan.
This consent and  amendment  was made in  connection  with a five-year  loan and
security  agreement entered into by H H's  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  OMG, Inc.,
with Sovereign Bank dated as of January 24, 2006 collateralized by a mortgage on
OMG,  Inc.'s real property  pursuant to which an $8.0 million term loan was made
available to OMG,  Inc. This consent and  amendment  provides  for,  among other
things,  (i) the amendment of certain  definitions to reflect the loan agreement
entered into by OMG,  Inc. and (ii) the increase of the  indebtedness  covenant,
each to reflect the loan agreement entered into by OMG, Inc.

      On March 31, 2006, H H entered into an amendment to the Term B Loan.  This
amendment  provided for, among other things,  an additional loan of $9.0 million
to H H and its  subsidiaries  to be used to make a prepayment on the WHX Note of
up to such amount.

      As of September 30, 2006,  H H's  availability  under its revolving credit
facility  was  $11.7  million;   however,  based  on  the  Company's  forecasted
borrowings,  these  available  funds may not be  sufficient to fund debt service
costs,  working  capital  demands  (especially in light of recent high commodity
prices,  primarily silver and gold), and environmental  remediation  costs. From
January 1, 2006  through  September  30,  2006,  H H spent  approximately  $12.2
million for the remediation of environmental  conditions at the site of a former
manufacturing  facility  which it had  previously  sold.  H H  expects  to spend
approximately   an  additional  $8.8  million  through  2007  to  complete  this
remediation.  In  addition,  H H may owe the buyer of the  property a penalty of
approximately  $3.8 million,  based on an estimated  completion date in February
2007,  which will increase if the  remediation is not completed by this date. An
arbitration  award,  which was  upheld by a court and is  currently  on  appeal,
concluded  that  H H will be  obligated  to pay this  penalty.  However,  H H is
awaiting a judicial  decision  as to the  enforceability  of this  penalty.  The
amount of availability  provided by H H's revolving credit facility limits H H's
borrowing  ability and is anticipated to continue to limit H H's liquidity until
it can refinance  this facility.  Additionally,  this credit  facility  contains
various financial covenants,  including minimum EBITDA, as defined, fixed charge
coverage  ratio and  limitations  on  capital  expenditures.  The  Company is in
violation of certain of these  covenants.  The facility  also  includes  certain
financial  reporting  requirements,  which the  Company has been unable to meet.
Historically, H H has been able to obtain amendments to financial covenants when
future  results  were not expected to comply with these  covenants.  H H has not
obtained an amendment  for these  covenant  violations,  and as a result,  is in
default of the  facility.  Accordingly,  the  Company  has  classified  all debt
subject  to  theses   covenants  as  current   liabilities  in  these  financial
statements.  H H and its bank group have  amended its facility as of October 30,
2006 to provide,  among other things,  an additional $7.0 million term loan upon
the filing of its 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and an immediate $3.0 million
of borrowing  availability under its revolving credit facility.  H H's revolving
credit  facility also matures on March 31, 2007.  There can be no assurance that
this

77

amendment  will  provide H H with the  liquidity  it  requires,  that current or
future  covenant  violations  will be waived by the banks,  or that  replacement
financing will be obtained upon commercially reasonable terms, if at all.

OTHER HANDY   HARMAN DEBT

      In March  2004,  H H's  wholly  owned  Danish  subsidiary  entered  into a
financing  agreement  to replace  and repay  existing  debt that had been issued
under a  multi-currency  facility  within the existing H H Senior Secured Credit
Facilities.  The new  Danish  facilities  are with a Danish  bank and  include a
revolving  credit  facility and term loans.  At December 31, 2005 and 2004 there
was approximately $5.4 million and $6.5 million, respectively, outstanding under
the term loans.  At  December  31,  2005 and 2004 there was  approximately  $0.5
million and $0 borrowings under the new revolving credit facility.

RESTRICTED NET ASSETS OF SUBSIDIARIES

      As  described  above,  the prior Handy   Harman loan  agreement  contained
provisions  restricting cash payments to WHX. The agreement  allowed the payment
of management fees, income taxes pursuant to a tax sharing agreement and certain
other  expenses.  In  addition,  dividends  could  only  be paid  under  certain
conditions.  At December 31, 2005, the net  liabilities  of H H  amounted to
$33.5 million.

SHORT TERM DEBT AND PREFERRED STOCK OF SUBSIDIARY

      Short term debt at December 31, 2005 and 2004 was as follows:

                                                        Year Ended December 31
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                        2005            2004
                                                    ------------    ------------
                                                           (IN THOUSANDS)

      Revolving Credit Facility                     $     45,980    $     40,398
      Other Preferred Stock- related party                 5,100              --
                                                    ------------    ------------
                                                    $     51,080    $     40,398
                                                    ============    ============

      On October 26, 2005, WHX CS Corp. ("CS"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company,   entered  into  a  Stock  Purchase   Agreement  (the  "Stock  Purchase
Agreement")  by and  between CS and Steel.  Pursuant to the  Agreement,  CS sold
1,000 shares of Series A Preferred  Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Steel
Shares"),  to Steel.  Steel  paid a  purchase  price of  $5,100  per share or an
aggregate  purchase price of $5.1 million.  The Steel Shares accrue dividends at
6.0% per annum.  The Steel  Shares  were  required to be redeemed by CS for $5.1
million  plus all  accrued and unpaid  dividends  on October 26, 2006 or, at the
sole option of the Board of Directors of CS, on any earlier date. However, there
was no such redemption on that date. The proceeds of the sale were used by CS to
purchase 1,898,337 shares of Cosine Communications, Inc.

INTEREST COST

Cash interest paid in 2005, 2004, and 2003 was $12.6,  $20.1, and $17.2 million,
respectively.  The Company has not capitalized any interest costs in 2005, 2004,
and 2003. Weighted average interest rates for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004, and 2003 were 8.50%, 8.49%, and 6.21% respectively.

NOTE 13 - STOCKHOLDERS' (DEFICIT) EQUITY

      The  authorized  capital stock of WHX  consisted of  60,000,000  shares of
Common Stock,  $.01 par value, of which 5,485,856  shares were outstanding as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003, and 10,000,000  shares of Preferred Stock,  $.10 par
value,  of which  2,573,926  shares of Series A Convertible  Preferred Stock and
2,949,000 shares of Series B Convertible  Preferred Stock were outstanding as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003. As a result of the Plan and Bankruptcy  Filing,  the
authorized  capital stock of  reorganized  WHX consists of 40,000,000  shares of
Common  Stock,  $0.01 par value,  of which  10,000,000  shares  were  issued and
outstanding  as of December 31, 2005 and  5,000,000  shares of preferred  stock,
none of which were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2005. In accordance
with the Plan,  the original  common stock was cancelled  with no  consideration
provided to the

78

common  stockholders  and the Series A and Series B Convertible  Preferred Stock
was cancelled in exchange for 8% of the common stock of  reorganized  WHX , plus
warrants to purchase common stock in reorganized WHX.

SERIES A CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK AND SERIES B CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

      In July 1993, the Company issued  3,000,000 shares of Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock for net proceeds of $145.0 million.  The Senior Notes prohibited
the payment of dividends on the Company's preferred stock until October 1, 2002,
at the earliest,  and  thereafter  only in the event that the Company  satisfied
certain conditions set forth in the Indenture,  as amended. Such conditions were
not  satisfied as of December 31, 2004.  Dividends on the shares of the Series A
Convertible  Preferred Stock were cumulative and payable quarterly in arrears on
January 1, April 1, July 1 and  October 1 of each  year,  in an amount  equal to
$3.25 per share per annum.

      Each share of the Series A Convertible  Preferred Stock was convertible at
the option of the holder  thereof at any time into shares of Common Stock of the
Company,  par value $.01 per share,  at a  conversion  rate of 1.0562  shares of
Common Stock for each share of Series A Convertible  Preferred Stock, subject to
adjustment under certain conditions.

      The Series A Convertible  Preferred  Stock was redeemable at the option of
the Company,  in whole or in part, for cash,  initially at $52.275 per share and
thereafter  at prices  declining  ratably  to $50 per share on and after July 1,
2003,  plus, in each case,  accrued and unpaid dividends to the redemption date.
The Series A Convertible  Preferred Stock was not entitled to the benefit of any
sinking fund.

      The Company also issued 3,500,000 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred
Stock in  September  1994 for net proceeds of $169.8  million.  The Senior Notes
prohibited  the payment of  dividends  on the  Company's  preferred  stock until
October 1, 2002,  at the  earliest,  and  thereafter  only in the event that the
Company  satisfied  certain  conditions set forth in the Indenture,  as amended.
Such  conditions  were not  satisfied as of December 31, 2004.  Dividends on the
shares of the Series B Convertible  Preferred  Stock were cumulative and payable
quarterly  in arrears on January 1, April 1, July 1 and  October 1 of each year,
in an amount equal to $3.75 per share per annum.

      Each share of the Series B Convertible  Preferred Stock was convertible at
the option of the holder  thereof at any time into shares of Common Stock of the
Company,  par value  $.01 per share,  at a  conversion  rate of 0.8170  share of
Common Stock for each share of Series B Convertible  Preferred Stock, subject to
adjustment under certain conditions.

      The Series B Convertible  Preferred  Stock was redeemable at the option of
the Company,  in whole or in part, for cash,  initially at $52.625 per share and
thereafter at prices declining  ratably to $50 per share on and after October 1,
2004,  plus, in each case,  accrued and unpaid dividends to the redemption date.
The Series B Convertible  Preferred Stock was not entitled to the benefit of any
sinking fund.

      At  December  31,  2004,  dividends  in  arrears  to Series A and Series B
Convertible  Preferred  Shareholders  were  $35.6  million  and  $47.0  million,
respectively.

      As previously  described,  upon  emergence  from  bankruptcy all shares of
preferred stock and accrued dividends were deemed cancelled and annulled.

POST-BANKRUPTCY STOCK OPTION PLANS

      The  Company has agreed to grant stock  options  upon  adoption of a stock
option plan by the Board of Directors and registration thereof with the SEC , or
in lieu thereof, phantom stock options or equivalent other consideration (at the
sole  discretion  of the  Company),  to various  officers  and  employees of the
Company,  on or as of the following effective dates (in the case of December 31,
2006, on or before) and in the following respective amounts,  with strike prices
or equivalent values as if granted on the dates set forth:

                  June 30, 2006              25,000 shares
                  September 30, 2006         85,000 shares
                  December 31, 2006         215,000 shares

The trading  price per share of the  Company's  common stock as of June 30, 2006
and September 30, 2006 was $9.20 and $9.00,  respectively and as of November 30,
2006 the trading price was $9.35 per share. Under SFAS 123R, the Company will be
required  to adjust its  obligation  to the fair value of such stock  options or
phantom stock options from the effective  date of grant up to the date of actual
grant. The Company has not adopted a stock option plan as of November 30, 2006

79

PRE-BANKRUPTCY STOCK OPTION PLANS

      The  following  stock  option  plans were in effect until WHX emerged from
bankruptcy in July 2005. In accordance with the plan of reorganization  all such
stock option plans were cancelled and annulled.

2003 INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN

      The WHX Corporation 2003 Incentive Stock Plan ("2003 Plan"),  was intended
to assist the Company in  securing  and  retaining  in the employ of the Company
directors,  officers,  consultants,  advisors and  employees by allowing them to
participate in the ownership and the  development  and financial  success of the
Company through the grant of incentive and non-qualified options  (collectively,
the "Options"),  stock appreciation  rights,  restricted stock, and other equity
incentives or stock or stock based awards ("Equity Incentives"). Incentive stock
options  granted  under the Option  Plan were  intended to be  "Incentive  Stock
Options" as defined by Section 422 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the "Code").

      An  aggregate  of 250,000  shares of Common Stock were subject to the 2003
Plan. The 2003 Plan was administered by a committee ("Committee")  consisting of
two or more non-employee members of the Board of Directors.  The term of Options
granted  under the 2003 Plan did exceed 10 years  (five  years in the case of an
incentive Option granted to an optionee owning more than 10% of the voting stock
of the Company (a"10% Holder")). The Option price for Options was not to be less
than 100% of the fair market value of the shares of Common Stock at the time the
Option was granted; provided, however, that with respect to an incentive option,
in the case of a 10% Holder,  the purchase  price per share was at least 110% of
such fair market value.  The aggregate fair market value of the shares of Common
Stock as to which an optionee may first exercise  incentive stock options in any
calendar  year did not  exceed  $100,000.  Payment  for  shares  purchased  upon
exercise  of  Options  is to be made in  cash,  but,  at the  discretion  of the
Committee, may be made by delivery of other shares of Common Stock of comparable
value.

      In 2003 the Company  awarded  80,000 shares of restricted  common stock to
members of the Board of  Directors  at a fair  market  value of $2.48 per share.
These shares vested 1/3  immediately and 1/3 in 2004 and continued to vest until
such stock was cancelled on the Effective Date.  Compensation expense related to
restricted stock awards was recognized over the vesting period.

2001 STOCK OPTION PLAN

      The WHX Corporation 2001 Stock Option Plan ("2001 Plan"),  was intended to
assist the  Company  in  securing  and  retaining  in the employ of the  Company
directors,  officers,  consultants,  advisors and  employees by allowing them to
participate in the ownership and the  development  and financial  success of the
Company through the grant of incentive and non-qualified options  (collectively,
the "2001 Options").  Incentive stock options granted under the Option Plan were
intended to be "Incentive Stock Options" as defined by Section 422 of the Code.

      An aggregate of 500,000  shares of Common Stock were reserved for issuance
upon exercise of Options under the 2001 Plan. The 2001 Plan was  administered by
a committee ("2001 Committee") consisting of two or more non-employee members of
the Board of Directors.  The term of Options granted under the 2001 Plan may not
exceed 10 years (five years in the case of an incentive  2001 Option  granted to
an  optionee  owning  more than 10% of the voting  stock of the  Company (a "10%
Holder")). The Option price for 2001 Options was not to be less than 100% of the
fair  market  value of the  shares of Common  Stock at the time the  Option  was
granted;  provided,  however,  that with respect to an incentive  option, in the
case of a 10%  Holder,  the  purchase  price per share was at least 110% of such
fair market value. The aggregate fair market value of the shares of Common Stock
as to which an  optionee  may first  exercise  incentive  stock  options  in any
calendar  year did not  exceed  $100,000.  Payment  for  shares  purchased  upon
exercise of 2001 Options was to be made in cash,  but at the  discretion  of the
2001  Committee,  may be made by  delivery  of other  shares of Common  Stock of
comparable value.

1991 STOCK OPTION PLAN

      The WHX  Corporation  Stock  Option Plan ("1991  Plan"),  as amended,  was
intended  to assist the Company in  securing  and  retaining  key  employees  by
allowing them to participate in the ownership and growth of the Company  through
the  grant of  incentive  and  non-qualified  options  (collectively,  the "1991
Options") to full-time  employees  of the  Company.  In 2001,  the 1991 Plan was
amended.  This amendment  expanded the definition of persons eligible to receive
grants  of  options  under the 1991 Plan to  directors,  officers,  consultants,
advisors and  employees of WHX and its  subsidiaries.  Incentive  stock  options
granted under the Option Plan were intended to be "Incentive  Stock  Options" as
defined by Section 422 of the Code.

      An  aggregate  of  1,250,000  shares of Common  Stock  were  reserved  for
issuance upon exercise of 1991 Options under the 1991 Plan, as amended. The 1991
Plan was  administered by a committee (the "1991  Committee")  consisting of not
less than two non-employee  members of the Board of Directors.  The term of 1991
Options  granted  under the 1991 Plan did not exceed 15 years (five years

80

in the case of an incentive 1991 Option granted to an optionee  owning more than
10% of the voting stock of the  Company).  The Option price for 1991 Options was
not less than 100% of the fair market value of the shares of Common Stock at the
time the options from 1991 Option Plan were  granted;  provided,  however,  that
with respect to an incentive option,  in the case of a 10% Holder,  the purchase
price per share was at least 110% of such fair market value.  The aggregate fair
market  value of the shares of Common  Stock as to which an  optionee  may first
exercise  incentive stock options in any calendar year did not exceed  $100,000.
Payment for shares  purchased  upon  exercise of Options was to be made in cash,
but at the discretion of the 1991 Committee, was to be made by delivery of other
shares of Common Stock of comparable value.

DIRECTORS OPTION PLANS

      The 1993  Directors  D O Plan  ("1993 D O Plan") was  authorized  to issue
shares of Common  Stock  pursuant to the  exercise of options  with respect to a
maximum of 133,333  shares of Common Stock.  The options vested over three years
from the date of grant.  The 1997 Directors  Stock Option Plan ("1997 D O Plan")
was authorized to issue an additional 133,333 shares of Common Stock.

OPTION GRANTS TO WPN CORPORATION

      On July 29, 1993 ("Approval  Date"),  the Board of Directors  approved the
grant  of  options  to WPN  Corp.  (See  Note 15 to the  consolidated  financial
statements) to purchase  333,333 shares of Common Stock ("Option  Grants").  The
Option Grants were approved by the stockholders on March 31, 1994. These options
expired unexercised on April 29, 2003.

      On August 4, 1997 the  compensation  committee  of the Board of  Directors
granted an option to purchase 333,333 shares of Common Stock to WPN Corp, at the
then  market  price per share,  subject to  stockholder  approval.  The Board of
Directors  approved  such grant on  September  25,  1997,  and the  stockholders
approved it on December 1, 1997  (measurement  date).  In January 2004 WPN Corp.
elected to cancel the options to purchase 333,333 shares of common stock.

A SUMMARY OF THE OPTION PLANS:

                      Number of                                                                                 Weighted
                       Options                                                                                   Average
                         1991          D O          WPN           2001         2003       Prices                 Option
                         Plan          Plan        Grant          Plan         Plan        Low        High       Price
                       --------     --------     --------     --------     --------     --------    --------    --------
Balance 1/1/03          807,631      162,000      666,667      377,000           --     $  2.300    $ 49.875    $ 27.805
   Granted              193,255       10,000           --      198,167      160,078        2.070      3.1500       2.614
   Cancelled           (524,797)     (52,000)    (333,334)     (93,667)          --        2.300      49.875      34.500
                       --------     --------     --------     --------     --------
Balance 12/31/03        476,089      120,000      333,333      481,500      160,078        2.300      49.875      14.603
   Granted              150,000       10,000           --           --           --        1.720       1.950       1.940
   Cancelled            (71,433)          --     (333,333)     (11,666)     (12,500)       1.950      39.938      23.756
                        -------      -------     --------      -------      -------
Balance 12/31/04        554,656      130,000           --      469,834      147,578        1.720      49.875       9.880
   Cancelled           (554,656)    (130,000)          --     (469,834)    (147,578)       1.720      49.875       9.880
                       --------     --------     --------     --------     --------
Balance 12/31/05             --           --           --           --           --
                       ========     ========     ========     ========     ========
Options exercisable          --           --           --           --           --     $     --    $     --    $     --
                       ========     ========     ========     ========     ========

EARNINGS PER SHARE

      The  computation  of basic  earnings  per  common  share is based upon the
weighted  average number of shares of common stock  outstanding.  As a result of
the Company's  emergence from bankruptcy in 2005, there have been changes to the
authorized  and  outstanding  common  stock of WHX. As  discussed in Note 2, the
Company emerged from protection under Chapter 11 of the

81

Bankruptcy Code on July 29, 2005. Prior to emergence,  the Company had 5,522,926
preferred and 5,485,856 common shares outstanding.

      Upon  emergence from  bankruptcy,  holders of the Company's 10 1/2% Senior
Notes,  with a  carrying  value of $96.6  million  (including  accrued  interest
through the date of filing for bankruptcy),  received 9,200,000 shares of common
stock in full and  complete  satisfaction  of all claims,  in  exchange  for the
extinguishment  of this debt. The preferred stock, with a carrying value of $267
million,  was  extinguished  upon emergence from  bankruptcy in exchange for the
residual shares of common stock outstanding,  (800,485 shares), plus warrants to
purchase an additional  752,688  common  shares.  Holders of the  pre-bankruptcy
common stock received no distribution under the Plan.

      For purposes of calculating  the 2005 Earnings Per Share,  the Company has
included the gain on the  extinguishment  of the preferred stock of $258 million
(representing  the  difference  between  the fair value of the common  stock and
warrants issued upon emergence from bankruptcy to the preferred stockholders and
the  carrying  value  of the  preferred  stock)  as an  increase  in net  income
available to common  shareholders in accordance with EITF Topic D-42, THE EFFECT
ON THE  CALCULATION  OF  EARNINGS  PER  SHARE  FOR  THE  REDEMPTION  OR  INDUCED
CONVERSION  OF  PREFERRED  STOCK.  As to the weighted  average  number of common
shares  outstanding  for 2005,  the Company has  accounted for the common shares
cancelled, in connection with the emergence from Chapter 11 as a retirement, and
the  issuance of common  shares to the  preferred  shareholders  and Senior Note
holders as an issuance.

      Since the  Company did not qualify  for  fresh-start  reporting  under the
guidance in  Statement  of Position  90-7,  'Financial  Reporting by Entities in
Reorganization  Under the Bankruptcy Code', the  pre-emergence  common shares of
5,485,856 and post-bankruptcy  shares of 10,000,485 are combined,  on a weighted
average basis,  in the denominator  used for earnings per share  calculations in
2005 on the basis that such common shares are of the same class of stock.

      In 2005 during  bankruptcy,  2004 and 2003,  the  conversion  of preferred
stock,  the exercise of options to purchase  common stock,  and the inclusion of
non-vested  restricted  common  stock  awards  would  have had an  anti-dilutive
effect.  At July 29,  2005,  December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 the assumed
conversion of preferred stock would have increased  outstanding shares of common
stock by  5,127,914  shares.  Stock  options to  purchase  1,302,068  shares and
1,571,000  shares  of  common  stock  were  outstanding  during  2004 and  2003,
respectively,  but were not included in the computation of diluted  earnings per
share because the options  exercise  prices were greater than the average market
price of the common shares during such period. At December 31, 2005 there are no
restricted stock awards, and at December 31, 2004 and 2003 there were 26,667 and
53,333  shares,  respectively,   of  non-vested  common  stock  associated  with
restricted  stock awards.  Preferred stock dividends and interest on the 10 1/2%
Senior Notes of $3.9 million and $7.8 million,  respectively,  were not recorded
while the Company was being  reorganized  in Chapter 11, and are  therefore  not
included  in the 2005  earnings  per share  calculation  on the basis  that such
dividends  and  interest  were  not   considered  to  be  an  allowed  claim.  A
reconciliation  of the  income  and  shares  used  in  the  earnings  per  share
computation follows:

                                                                Year ended December 31, 2005
                                                    Income (loss)          Shares           Per-Share
                                                     (Numerator)       (Denominator)          Amount
                                                  ---------------     ---------------    ---------------
                                                              (DOLLARS AND SHARES IN THOUSANDS)

Net loss                                          $       (34,657)
Add: Gain on extinguishment of preferred stock            257,782
Less: Preferred stock dividends                             3,561
Basic EPS and Diluted EPS
                                                  ---------------
     Income available to common stockholders      $       219,564               7,232    $         30.36
                                                  ===============     ===============    ===============

      The assumed  conversion of preferred  stock, the exercise of stock options
and the effect of non-vested restricted stock awards had an anti-dilutive effect
on earnings per-share in 2005.

82

Year ended December 31, 2004
                                               Income (loss)          Shares          Per-Share
                                                (Numerator)       (Denominator)         Amount
                                              --------------     --------------    --------------
                                                         (DOLLARS AND SHARES IN THOUSANDS)

Net loss                                      $     (140,444)
Less: Preferred stock dividends                       19,424
                                              --------------
Basic EPS and Diluted EPS
     Loss available to common stockholders    $     (159,868)             5,442    $       (29.38)
                                              ==============     ==============    ==============

      The assumed  conversion of preferred  stock, the exercise of stock options
and the effect of non-vested restricted stock awards had an anti-dilutive effect
on earnings per-share in 2004.

                                                          Year ended December 31, 2003
                                                                  (as Restated)
                                               Income (loss)         Shares          Per-Share
                                                (Numerator)       (Denominator)        Amount
                                              --------------     --------------    --------------
                                                      (DOLLARS AND SHARES IN THOUSANDS)

Net loss                                      $     (159,924)
Less: Preferred stock dividends                       19,424
                                              --------------
Basic EPS and Diluted EPS
     Loss available to common stockholders    $     (179,348)             5,377    $       (33.35)
                                              ==============     ==============    ==============

      The assumed  conversion of preferred  stock, the exercise of stock options
and the effect of non-vested restricted stock awards had an anti-dilutive effect
on earnings per-share in 2003.

WARRANTS

      As described  above,  as part of the Plan of  Reorganization,  on July 29,
2005 in exchange for the  extinguishment  and  cancellation of their stock,  the
Series A preferred  stockholders,  and Series B preferred  stockholders received
their  pro  rata  share  of  800,000  shares  of the  new  common  stock  of the
reorganized WHX and their pro rata share of 752,688  warrants to purchase common
stock of the reorganized  company,  exercisable at $11.20 per share and expiring
February 28, 2008.  As of the Effective  Date,  the warrants were valued at $1.3
million using the Black-Scholes valuation method at $1.71 per warrant.

ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

      Accumulated other comprehensive  income (loss) balances as of December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003 were comprised as follows:

                                                  2005             2004             2003
                                              ------------     ------------     ------------
                                                     (IN THOUSANDS)             (AS RESTATED)
Minimum pension liability adjustment
 (net of tax of $5,262, $5,262 and $5,262)    $    (59,754)    $    (39,980)    $    (18,732)
Foreign currency translation adjustment              2,328            3,369            2,352
                                              ------------     ------------     ------------

                                              $    (57,426)    $    (36,611)    $    (16,380)
                                              ============     ============     ============

NOTE 14- COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Operating Lease Commitments:

      The Company leases certain facilities under non-cancelable operating lease
arrangements.  Rent expense for  continuing  operations for the Company in 2005,
2004 and 2003 was $3.0  million,  $2.4  million and $2.2  million  respectively.
Future  minimum  operating  lease and rental  commitments  under  non-cancelable
operating leases are as follows (in thousands):

83

2006                  $        2,361
                  2007                           1,795
                  2008                             991
                  2009                             841
                  2010                             665
                                        --------------
                                        $        6,653
                                        ==============

Legal Matters:

SUMCO INC. V.  UNDERWRITERS AT LLOYD'S,  LONDON,  LEXINGTON  INSURANCE  COMPANY,
HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY, AND WURTTEMBERGISCHE VERSICHERUNG AG

      On July 7, 2004, Sumco Inc. ("Sumco"),  a wholly-owned  subsidiary of H H,
filed suit in the  Marion  County  Superior  Court of  Indiana  against  certain
underwriters  affiliated  with Lloyd's,  London,  Lexington  Insurance  Company,
Hartford Fire  Insurance  Company,  and  Wurttembergische  Versicherung  AG (the
defendants).  Sumco seeks to recover  monies from these  insurance  carriers for
losses  incurred as a result of a January 20,  2002,  fire at its metal  plating
facility  in  Indianapolis,  Indiana.  At the time of the fire,  Sumco's  parent
corporation,  WHX, had in place  layered fire  insurance  policies with combined
limits of $25 million and a deductible  of $100,000.  The  defendants  represent
carriers  who  provided  $15  million  in  insurance  coverage  in excess of two
underlying  policies of $5 million  each.  Defendants  have  previously  paid $5
million in claims.  Sumco  contends  that its losses are in excess of the policy
limits,  defendants  have acted in bad  faith,  and that it is  entitled  to the
payment of the remaining  approximate $10 million in insurance coverage provided
by the  defendants.  The defendants have denied the allegations of the complaint
and asserted  certain  defenses.  The matter is expected to go to trial in April
2007.

HANDY   HARMAN  REFINING  GROUP,  INC.,  DEBTOR  PLAINTIFFS  V.  HANDY   HARMAN,
DEFENDANT

      H H was a defendant in a lawsuit (the "Indemnity Action") filed by Handy  
Harman Refining Group, Inc. ("HHRG") (an unrelated party to H H) seeking a money
judgment in the amount of $8.5 million, plus interest,  which as of December 31,
2005 was  alleged to be  approximately  $4  million,  for an  alleged  breach of
contract in connection with H H's sale of its Precious Metals Refining  Division
to HHRG in 1996.  HHRG  subsequently  filed for  Chapter  11 and  commenced  the
Indemnity  Action in the  Bankruptcy  Court on or about August 14,  2002.  On or
about May 26, 2004,  the Indemnity  Action was  transferred to the United States
District  Court for the District of  Connecticut.  H H filed a proof of claim in
the HHRG  bankruptcy  which  had an  outstanding  amount of  approximately  $1.9
million and funds had been set aside in that amount by HHRG. The parties settled
this matter in June 2006 for the  surrender of the full amount of H H's proof of
claim of $1.9 million  plus a payment of $438,000 to HHRG.  The  settlement  was
approved by the Bankruptcy Court.

HH EAST PARCEL, LLC. V. HANDY   HARMAN

      This action  arises out of a purchase and sale  agreement  entered into in
2003  whereby  H H agreed to sell the  eastern  parcel of a  commercial  site in
Fairfield,  Connecticut to HH East Parcel, LLC ("HH East"). On or about April 5,
2005,  HH East  filed a Demand for  Arbitration  with the  American  Arbitration
Association  seeking  legal and  equitable  relief  including  completion of the
remediation of environmental conditions at the site in accordance with the terms
of  the  agreement.  An  arbitration  hearing  was  held  in  November  2005  in
Connecticut, pursuant to which HH East was awarded an amount equal to $5,000 per
day from January 1, 2005  through the date on which  remediation  is  completed.
This award would amount to $3.8 million  through an anticipated  completion date
of February  2007.  HH East  continues to owe H H $1.0 million as the balance of
the purchase price for the property,  which will be due subsequent to completion
of the remediation, subject to certain conditions. Since receipt of this payment
is  contingent  on certain  factors that are not certain to be met at this time,
the Company has recorded a reserve of $1 million in the 4th Quarter of 2004. H H
applied to the Superior  Court of  Connecticut,  Fairfield  County,  to have the
arbitration  award  vacated and a decision was issued on June 26, 2006,  denying
H H's  application.  H H is  appealing  this  decision.  H H  has  been  working
cooperatively  with the Connecticut DEP with respect to its obligations  under a
consent  order entered into in 1989 that applies to both the eastern and western
parcels of the property.  H H has  substantially  completed the investigation of
the western parcel,  and is continuing the process of evaluating various options
for its remediation.  The sale of the eastern parcel that is the subject of this
litigation triggered statutory  obligations under Connecticut law to investigate
and remediate  pollution at or emanating from the eastern parcel.  H H completed
the  investigation  and has been  actively  conducting  remediation  of all soil
conditions  on the  eastern  parcel  for more  than  three  years.  Although  no
groundwater  remediation  is  required,  there  will be  monitoring  of same for
several years. It is currently  expected that remediation of all soil conditions
on site will be completed by February 2007. The total remediation is expected to
exceed $27.0  million,  of which  approximately  $19.0 million had

84

been expended  through October 2006. H H received  reimbursement of $2.0 million
of these  costs  from its  carrier  under a  cost-cap  insurance  policy  and is
pursuing its potential entitlement to additional coverage.

PAUL E. DIXON   DENNIS C. KELLY V. HANDY   HARMAN

      Two former  officers of H H filed a Statement  of Claim with the  American
Arbitration  Association  ("Arbitration") on or about January 3, 2006,  alleging
four claims  against H H. The Claimants  were  employees of H H until  September
2005 when their  employment was terminated by H H. Their claims include  seeking
payments allegedly due under employment contracts and allegedly arising from the
terminations,  and seeking  recovery of benefits  under what they allege was the
Handy   Harman Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.

      The Statement of Claim recites that the  employment  agreements of each of
the  Claimants  provides that H H may  terminate  their  employment at any time,
without prior notice,  for any of the following  reasons:  "(i) [the  officer's]
engaging  in conduct  which is  materially  injurious  to [H H] or [WHX],  their
subsidiaries  or  affiliates,  or any of their  respective  customer or supplier
relationships, monetarily or otherwise; (ii) [the officer's] engaging in any act
of fraud,  misappropriation  or embezzlement or any act which would constitute a
felony (other than minor traffic violations);  or (iii) [the officer's] material
breach of the  agreement." The Statement of Claim further  alleges,  and H H has
not disputed,  that each Claimant's  employment was terminated in September 2005
pursuant to a letter,  which  stated in part,  that each  Claimant  had violated
provisions of such  officer's  employment  agreement,  contained in the previous
sentence,  "by, INTER ALIA, attempting to amend and put in place various benefit
plans to  personally  benefit  yourself,  without  notice to, or approval of the
Board of  Directors;  for  further  failing to  disclose  the  existence  of the
relevant  plan  documents  and other  information  to the Board;  for failing to
cooperate in the Company's investigation of these important issues; for material
losses to the Company in connection with these actions; ...."

      In the  Arbitration,  Claimants  sought an award in  excess of $4  million
each,  plus  interest,   costs  and  attorneys'  fees.   Claimants  also  sought
indemnification for certain matters and an injunction against H H with regard to
life insurance  policies.  H H brought a special proceeding on February 15, 2006
in the  Supreme  Court of the State of New York,  County of  Westchester,  for a
judgment staying the arbitration of three of the four claims. On March 10, 2006,
all of the parties filed a stipulation with the court,  discontinuing  the court
proceeding and agreeing therein, among other things, that all claims asserted by
the  Claimants in the  Arbitration  (which was also  discontinued  at that time)
would be asserted in Supreme Court, Westchester County.

      In April 2006,  Claimants  served a request for  benefits,  severance  and
other  amounts,  similar  to those  described  above,  on H H and  various  plan
administrators and fiduciaries  thereof.  The request was reviewed in accordance
with the  procedures  of the plans at issue and by letter  dated  September  27,
2006,  Claimants were notified that their request was largely denied;  they have
served H H with a demand for  documents  in order to prepare  their  appeal,  to
which demand the company is preparing its  response.  While no action is pending
in any court,  H H does not  believe  that it is liable to  Claimants  under the
claims  that  have been  asserted  to date,  and it  intends  to  defend  itself
vigorously against any claims that may be asserted by Claimants. There can be no
assurance that H H will be successful in defending  against any such claims,  or
that H H will not have any  liability  on account of claims that may be asserted
by Claimants, and such liability, if any, cannot be reasonably estimated at this
time. Accordingly,  there can be no assurance that the resolution of this matter
will not be material to the financial  position,  results of operations and cash
flow of the Company.

ARISTA DEVELOPMENT LLC V. HANDY   HARMAN ELECTRONIC MATERIALS CORPORATION

      In  2004,  a  subsidiary  of H H  entered  into  an  agreement  to  sell a
commercial/industrial  property  in  North  Attleboro,  Massachusetts.  Disputes
between  the  parties  led to suit being  brought in Bristol  Superior  Court in
Massachusetts.  The plaintiff  alleges that H H is liable for breach of contract
and  certain  consequential  damages  as a result  of H H's  termination  of the
agreement in 2005, although H H subsequently  revoked its notice of termination.
H H has denied  liability and has been vigorously  defending the case. The court
entered a preliminary  injunction  enjoining H H from  conveying the property to
anyone other than the  plaintiff  during the pendency of the case.  Discovery on
liability and damages has been stayed while the parties are actively  engaged in
settlement  discussions.  Concurrently  with these  settlement  efforts,  H H is
continuing  to comply  with a 1987  consent  order  from the  Massachusetts  DEP
("MADEP") to investigate and remediate the soil and groundwater conditions.  H H
is in discussions  with the EPA, the MADEP and the plaintiff in connection  with
the remedial activities. Since discovery is not completed, it cannot be known at
this time whether it is foreseeable or probable that plaintiff  would prevail in
the litigation or whether H H would have any liability to the plaintiff.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

      H H entered into an administrative  consent order (the "ACO") in 1986 with
the New Jersey Department of Environmental  Protection  ("NJDEP") with regard to
certain  property  that it  purchased  in 1984 in New Jersey.  The ACO  involves
remediation  to be performed with regard to soil and  groundwater  contamination
allegedly  from TCE.  H H settled a case  brought by the local  municipality  in
regard to this site in 1998 and also settled with its insurance carriers. H H is
actively remediating the property and

85

continuing to investigate  the most effective  methods for achieving  compliance
with the ACO. A remedial investigation report was filed with the NJDEP in May of
2006.  Once the  investigation  has been  completed,  it will be  followed  by a
feasibility  study and a remedial  action  work plan that will be  submitted  to
NJDEP.  H H anticipates  entering into discussions in the near future with NJDEP
to address that agency's natural resource damage claims,  the ultimate scope and
cost of which cannot be estimated at this time.  The ongoing cost of remediation
is presently  estimated at  approximately  $450,000 per year,  plus  anticipated
additional  costs  in  early  2007  of  approximately  $700,000,  Pursuant  to a
settlement   agreement  with  the  former   operator  of  this   facility,   the
responsibility for site investigation and remediation costs have been allocated,
75% to the  former  operator  and 25% to H H.  To date,  total  remediation  and
investigative  costs of  $237,000  and $79,000  have been  settled by the former
operator  and  H H,   respectively,   in   accordance   with  this   agreement.
Additionally,  H H has insurance coverage for a portion of those costs for which
the company is responsible.

      H H has been identified as a potentially  responsible  party ("PRP") under
the  Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,   Compensation  and  Liability  Act
("CERCLA") or similar state statutes at several sites and is a party to ACO's in
connection  with  certain  properties.  H H may be subject to joint and  several
liability  imposed  by CERCLA on  potentially  responsible  parties.  Due to the
technical and regulatory  complexity of remedial activities and the difficulties
attendant in  identifying  potentially  responsible  parties and  allocating  or
determining  liability  among them,  H H is unable to  reasonably  estimate  the
ultimate cost of compliance with such laws.

      In a case entitled AGERE SYSTEMS,  INC., ET AL. V. ADVANCED  ENVIRONMENTAL
TECHNOLOGY CORP., ET AL. (U.S.  District Court,  EDPA),  five companies,  all of
which are PRPs for the Boarhead Farm site in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, brought
CERCLA contribution and similar claims under  Pennsylvania's  environmental laws
against a number of companies in 2002,  including a subsidiary of H H, which the
plaintiffs claim  contributed to the  contamination of the Boarhead Farm site. A
number of the  plaintiffs  entered  into  settlements  with several of the named
defendants  and  consent  decrees  with the EPA  regarding  the  remediation  of
groundwater  and  soil  contamination  at the  Boarhead  Farm  site.  There  are
currently  nine  non-settling  defendants,  including  H H,  against  which  the
plaintiffs are pursuing their claims.  Fact discovery has been concluded and the
parties  are engaged in expert  discovery.  The  plaintiffs  have  already  made
substantial  payments  to the EPA in past  response  costs  and have  themselves
incurred  costs for  groundwater  and soil  remediation,  which  remediation  is
continuing.  Plaintiffs  are  seeking  reimbursement  of a  portion  of  amounts
incurred and an allocation of future amounts from H H and the other non-settling
defendants.  H H has been  advised by counsel that its  responsibility  for this
site,  if any,  should be minimal and has demanded  coverage  from its insurance
carrier for any claims for which it could be held liable.  It is not possible to
reasonably  estimate  the cost of  remediation  or H H's  share,  if any, of the
liability at this time.

      H H received a notice letter from the EPA in August 2006  formally  naming
H H as a PRP at the Shpack landfill superfund site in Attleboro,  Massachusetts.
H H then voluntarily joined a group of ten (10) other PRPs to work cooperatively
to present to the EPA a good faith  offer  regarding  remediation  of this site.
Investigative  work is ongoing to determine whether there are other parties that
sent hazardous  substances to the Shpack site but that have not received  notice
letters  nor been named as PRPs to date.  No  allocation  as to  percentages  of
responsibility  for any of the PRPs has been assigned or accepted;  H H has been
advised by counsel that its  responsibility,  if any, is extremely  low. The PRP
group  submitted its good faith offer to the EPA in late October 2006. It is not
anticipated  that the EPA will accept or reject the PRPs'  offer until 2007.  If
accepted,  it is not anticipated  that PRP remedial  activities at the site will
begin  until  2008 or after.  The  remediation  of a  significant  amount of the
contamination  at the  site is the  responsibility  of the  U.S.  Army  Corps of
Engineers.  That  portion  of the  work  has  begun  but is not  expected  to be
completed  until 2008 or after,  at which time the  remaining  work will be more
clearly  defined.  Accordingly,  it is not  possible at this time to  reasonably
estimate the scope or cost of remediation at the site, nor the portion,  if any,
to be allocated to H H.

      As discussed above, H H has existing and contingent  liabilities  relating
to environmental matters,  including capital expenditures,  costs of remediation
and potential  fines and penalties  relating to possible  violations of national
and state  environmental  laws. H H has substantial  remediation  expenses on an
ongoing basis,  although such costs are continually  being readjusted based upon
the  emergence of new  techniques  and  alternative  methods.  In addition,  the
Company has insurance  coverage  available for several of these  matters.  Based
upon   information   currently   available,   including   H H's  prior   capital
expenditures, anticipated capital expenditures, and information available to H H
on pending  judicial  and  administrative  proceedings,  H H does not expect its
environmental compliance costs, including the incurrence of additional fines and
penalties,  if any,  relating  to the  operation  of its  facilities,  to have a
material  adverse  effect on the financial  position of H H, but there can be no
such assurances.  Such costs could be material to H H's results of operation and
cash  flows.  We  anticipate  that H H will pay such  amounts out of its working
capital,  although there is no assurance that H H will have sufficient  funds to
pay such  amounts.  In the event that H H is unable to fund  these  liabilities,
claims  could be made  against WHX for payment of such  liabilities.  As further
information  comes into the Company's  possession,  it will continue to reassess
such evaluations.

OTHER LITIGATION

      H H or its  subsidiaries  are a defendant in numerous  cases  pending in a
variety of jurisdictions relating to welding emissions.  Generally,  the factual
underpinning of the plaintiffs'  claims is that the use of welding  products for
their ordinary and intended  purposes in the welding process causes emissions of
fumes  that  contain  manganese,  which is toxic to the  human  central  nervous
system.  The

86

plaintiffs  assert  that they were  over-exposed  to  welding  fumes  emitted by
welding products  manufactured and supplied by H H and other co-defendants.  H H
denies liability and is defending these actions.

      In addition to the  foregoing  cases,  there are a number of other product
liability,  exposure,  accident,  casualty and other  claims  against H H or its
subsidiaries in connection with a variety of products sold by its divisions over
many  years,  as well as  litigation  related to  employment  matters,  contract
matters,  sales and purchase  transactions and general liability claims, many of
which arise in the ordinary course of business.

      There is insurance coverage available for many of these actions, which are
being litigated in a variety of jurisdictions. To date, H H has not incurred any
significant liability with respect to these claims, which it contests vigorously
in most cases.  However,  it is possible  that the ultimate  resolution  of such
litigation  and claims  could have a material  adverse  effect on the  Company's
results of operations,  financial position and cash flows when they are resolved
in future periods.

NOTE 15 - RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

      On October 26, 2005, WHX CS Corp. ("CS"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company,   entered  into  a  Stock  Purchase   Agreement  (the  "Stock  Purchase
Agreement")  by and  between CS and Steel.  Pursuant to the  Agreement,  CS sold
1,000 shares of Series A Preferred  Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Steel
Shares"),  to Steel.  Steel  paid a  purchase  price of  $5,100  per share or an
aggregate  purchase price of $5.1 million.  The Steel Shares accrue dividends at
6.0% per annum.  The Steel  Shares  were  required to be redeemed by CS for $5.1
million  plus all  accrued and unpaid  dividends  on October 26, 2006 or, at the
sole option of the Board of Directors of CS, on any earlier date. However, there
was no such  redemption on that date.  The proceeds of this sale were used by CS
to purchase 1,898,337 shares of Cosine Communications, Inc.

      The Company has two  investments  accounted  for under the equity  method,
Cosine  Communications  18% ownership of the outstanding common stock and 50% of
the outstanding common stock of H H Mfg.  (Singapore).  The Company accounts for
Cosine  Communications  under the equity  method  because a related party (Steel
Partners) owns an additional 30% of the outstanding  common stock and indirectly
has  the  ability  to  exercise  control.   The  investment  balance  of  Cosine
Communications at December 31, 2005 was $5.1 million.  The investment balance of
H H Mfg at  December  31,  2005  and 2004 was $ 4.0  million  and $4.1  million,
respectively. These investments are presented in other non-current assets.

      On September 8, 2005,  H H completed the  assignment of its  approximately
$70.6  million  Term B  Loan  from  Canpartners,  to  Steel  Partners  II,  L.P.
("Steel"), as agent and lender. Substantially all of the terms and conditions of
the Term B Loan continue without  amendment.  Steel is the beneficial  holder of
5,029,793 shares of the Company's common stock,  representing  approximately 50%
of the outstanding shares.  Warren Lichtenstein,  the sole executive officer and
managing member of Steel Partners, L.L.C., the general partner of Steel Partners
II, L.P., is the Chairman of the Board of the Company.

      A  current  member  of the  Company's  Board  of  Directors,  owns  49% of
Abundance Corp., which had a consulting  agreement with WHX (as it existed prior
to the Effective Date of the Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization)  that terminated
in February of 2005. Abundance Corp. was paid $200,000 per annum under the terms
of the  consulting  agreement.  Fees of  $203,785,  $212,699,  and $23,555  were
incurred for services performed in 2003, 2004, and 2005.

      Mr.  Kassan,  an Executive  Vice  President  with Steel Partners Ltd., was
appointed Chief Executive Officer of WHX on October 7, 2005. In 2005, Mr. Kassan
received no compensation. In 2006, the Compensation Committee approved salary of
$600,000 per annum for Mr. Kassan, effective January 1, 2006.

      During the period  January 1, 2003 to  December31,  2005,  the Company was
billed $2.4  million in legal fees for services  performed by Olshan,  Grundman,
Frome,  Rosenzweig     Wolosky  LLP  ("Olshan"),  a law  firm in  which a former
director of the Company was a retired  partner  with the law firm.  The director
resigned upon emergence from bankruptcy in July 2005.

      The former  Chairman of the Board of the Company is the president and sole
shareholder of WPN Corp. ("WPN"). Pursuant to a management agreement as amended,
and approved by a majority of the non-management  directors of the Company,  WPN
provided certain financial,  management  advisory and consulting services to the
Company. Such services included,  among others,  identification,  evaluation and
negotiation  of  acquisitions,   financing  matters  for  the  Company  and  its
subsidiaries,   review  of  annual  and  quarterly   budgets,   supervision  and
administration,  as appropriate,  of all the Company's  accounting and financial
functions and review and supervision of reporting  obligations under Federal and
state securities laws. In exchange for such services, WPN received a monthly fee
of $520,833 through October 2003 and $400,000 per month  thereafter.  In January
2004 the Company  announced,  among other things, the retirement of the Chairman
of the Board. In connection with this announcement,  effective February 1, 2004,
the  management  agreement  between WHX and WPN was  terminated.  On February 1,
2004,  WPN entered into an Investment  Consulting  Agreement with the Company on
behalf of the WHX Pension Plan Trust pursuant to which WPN Corp.  would continue
to manage the assets of

87

the WHX Pension Plan Trust.  Under the  Agreement,  WPN Corp. is paid by the WHX
Pension Plan Trust .525% per year of the amount of the assets under  management.
The WHX  Pension  Plan  Trust  Agreement  was  negotiated  by a board  committee
composed of independent  directors,  which committee recommended the approval of
such  Investment  Consulting  Agreement to the full board,  which  approved such
agreement.

      The WPC Group  participates  in the WHX defined benefit pension plan. As a
result of the Settlement Agreement,  WHX could not charge any pension expense to
the WPC Group with respect to the WHX Pension  Plan.  As a result,  WHX incurred
non-cash pension expense of approximately  $52.9 million (including  curtailment
and  special  termination  benefits),  for the WPC Group in 2003.  The  non-cash
pension  expense  for  2003  includes  $48.1  million  pension  curtailment  and
termination benefit charges related to the consummation of the WPC Group Plan of
Reorganization.

NOTE 16 - OTHER INCOME AND (EXPENSE)

                                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                                    2005             2004             2003
                                                ------------     ------------     ------------
                                                                                  (AS RESTATED)
                                                                (IN THOUSANDS)

Interest and investment income                  $        225     $        439     $      6,465
Interest rate swap                                        --               --             (625)
Equity income in non consolidated subsidiary             219              125              100
Foreign currency transaction loss                       (565)             155              (88)
Gain on WPSC Note Recovery                                --            5,596               --
Gain (loss) on derivatives                            (4,263)             549             (190)
Other, net                                               272             (299)          (3,907)
                                                ------------     ------------     ------------
                                                $     (4,112)    $      6,565     $      1,755
                                                ============     ============     ============

NOTE 17 - GAIN/(LOSS) ON EARLY RETIREMENT OF DEBT

                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                       2005             2004             2003
                                   ------------     ------------     ------------
                                                                     (AS RESTATED)
                                                   (IN THOUSANDS)

Discount on early debt retirement  $         --     $         --     $      3,382
Unamortized debt issuance cost               --           (1,161)            (153)
Unamortized consent fee                      --               --             (230)
                                   ------------     ------------     ------------
                                   $         --     $     (1,161)    $      2,999
                                   ============     ============     ============

      In  connection  with the  refinancing  of the H H  Senior  Secured  Credit
Facilities in March 2004, the Company wrote off deferred  financing fees of $1.2
million.  In 2003,  the Company  purchased and retired  $17.7 million  aggregate
principal  amount of 10 1/2% Senior Notes in the open market resulting in a $3.0
million gain.

NOTE 18 - REPORTED SEGMENTS

      The  Company has three  reportable  segments:  (1)  Precious  Metal.  This
segment  manufactures  and  sells  precious  metal  products  and  electroplated
material, containing silver, gold, and palladium in combination with base metals
for use in a wide variety of industrial  applications;  (2) Tubing. This segment
manufactures and sells tubing products and fabrications primarily from stainless
steel,  carbon  steel  and  specialty  alloys,  for  use  in a wide  variety  of
industrial applications; (3) Engineered Materials. This segment

88

manufactures  specialty  roofing and construction  fasteners,  products for gas,
electricity and water distribution using steel and plastic which are sold to the
construction   and  natural   gas  and  water   distribution   industries,   and
electrogalvinized products used in the construction and appliance industries.

      Management  has  determined  that  certain  operating  segments  should be
aggregated  and presented  within a single  reporting  segment on the basis that
such operating  segments have similar economic  characteristics  and share other
qualitative  characteristics.  Management  reviews  gross  profit and  operating
income to evaluate  segment  performance.  Operating  income for the  reportable
segments  excludes  unallocated  general  corporate  expenses.  Other income and
expense,  interest expense,  and income taxes are not presented by segment since
they are  excluded  from the  measure of segment  profitability  reviewed by the
Company's management.

89

The following tables present  information  about reported segments for the
years ending December 31:

(in thousands)

                                                            2005             2004             2003
                                                        ------------     ------------     ------------
                                                                                          (AS RESTATED)
Net Sales

   Precious Metal                                       $    116,958     $    105,289     $     84,572
   Tubing                                                    114,355          104,019           85,533
   Engineered Materials                                      172,502          162,653          119,785
                                                        ------------     ------------     ------------
      Net sales                                         $    403,815     $    371,961     $    289,890
                                                        ============     ============     ============

Segment operating income (loss)
   Precious Metal (a)                                   $     (1,644)    $    (44,828)    $    (36,155)
   Tubing (b)                                                   (446)         (30,793)         (27,442)
   Engineered Materials                                       13,462           16,367            8,423
                                                        ------------     ------------     ------------
      Subtotal                                                11,372          (59,254)         (55,174)

Unallocated corporate expenses                                 8,575            8,214           15,743
Enviromental remediation expense (c)                              --           28,971              502
Fairfield penalty (c)                                             --            3,845               --
Pension - curtailment   special termination benefits              --               --           48,102
Loss (gain) on disposal of assets (d)                            103             (592)           4,803
                                                        ------------     ------------     ------------

      Income (loss) from operations                            2,694          (99,692)        (124,324)

Interest expense                                              17,236           25,486           19,005
Chapter 11 and related reorganization expenses                 9,454               --               --
Gain on disposition of WPC                                        --               --              534
Gain (loss) on early retirement of debt                           --           (1,161)           2,999
Other income (loss)                                           (4,112)           6,565            1,755
                                                        ------------     ------------     ------------

      Loss from continuing operations before taxes           (28,108)        (119,774)        (138,041)

Tax provision                                                  2,342            2,172           13,208

      Loss from continuing operations, net                   (30,450)        (121,946)        (151,249)

Loss from discontinued operations, net                        (4,207)         (18,498)          (8,675)
                                                        ------------     ------------     ------------
      Net loss                                          $    (34,657)    $   (140,444)    $   (159,924)
                                                        ============     ============     ============

(a)   Includes a goodwill  impairment  charge of $45.6 million in 2004 and $38.4
      million in 2003.
(b)   Includes a goodwill  impairment  charge of $34.2 million in 2004 and $29.0
      million in 2003.
(c)   Environmental  remediation  expense and  Fairfield  penalty  have not been
      allocated to the reporting segments since the related facilities have been
      closed for  several  years and are not  indicative  of  current  operating
      results.
(d)   Loss  (gain) on  disposal  of assets  includes  the  following  amounts by
      segment for 2005,  2004 and 2003  respectively.  Precious Metal - $9, $101
      and $4,557; Tube - ($5),  ($13),and $2 ; Engineered Materials - $99, ($4),
      and ($23); Corporate $0, ($676), and $267.

90

(IN THOUSANDS)
                                        2005            2004            2003
                                    ------------    ------------    ------------

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

   Precious Metal                   $      2,054    $      2,337    $        588
   Tubing                                  6,040           2,213           6,342
   Engineered Materials                   11,291           3,054           2,782
   Corporate and other                       989           1,766              49
                                    ------------    ------------    ------------
Total                               $     20,374    $      9,370    $      9,761
                                    ============    ============    ============

(IN THOUSANDS)
                                                        2005            2004
                                                    ------------    ------------

TOTAL ASSETS

   Precious Metal                                   $     75,342    $     70,970
   Tubing                                                 74,330          68,825
   Engineered Materials                                  113,870         106,658
   Discontinued Operations                                 2,975          19,185
   Corporate and other                                    29,681          46,278
                                                    ------------    ------------
Total                                               $    296,198    $    311,916
                                                    ============    ============

      The following table presents revenue and long-lived  asset  information by
geographic  area as of and for the years ended  December 31.  Long-lived  assets
consist of property, plant and equipment and the Company's 50% investment in H H
Manufacturing (Singapore).

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

                                    Revenue                                   Long-Lived Assets
                 --------------------------------------------    --------------------------------------------
(IN THOUSANDS)       2005            2004            2003            2005            2004            2003
                 ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
                                                 (AS RESTATED)                                   (AS RESTATED)

United States    $    371,216    $    346,858    $    270,700    $     82,765    $     74,667    $     82,841
Foreign                32,599          25,103          19,190          12,510          13,800          12,441
                 ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
                 $    403,815    $    371,961    $    289,890    $     95,275    $     88,467    $     95,282
                 ============    ============    ============    ============    ============    ============

      Foreign  revenue is based on the country in which the legal  subsidiary is
domiciled.   Revenue  from  no  single  foreign  country  was  material  to  the
consolidated revenues of the Company.

      In  2004,  a  customer  of  the  Company's  Engineered  Materials  Segment
accounted for 7.1% of H H's consolidated  sales. No other customer accounted for
more than 5% of H H's  sales.  In 2005 and 2003 no customer  accounted  for more
than 5% of the Company's sales.

91

NOTE 19 - QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

      The Company has  restated its  previously  issued  unaudited  consolidated
financial  statements for the quarters  ended March 31, 2004,  June 30, 2004 and
September 30, 2004 (the Quarter  Restatement").  The Quarter Restatement will be
given full effect in the  financial  statements  to be included in the Company's
Quarterly  Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2005,  June 30,
2005 and September 30, 2005,  when they are filed. In addition to the details of
the  corrections  described  in Note 1b,  the 2004  quarters  ended  June 30 and
September  30 have  been  corrected  for an error in the  timing  of and  amount
recognized with respect to certain  long-lived asset impairments under SFAS 144,
`Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets'.

      Financial  results by quarter for the two fiscal years ended  December 31,
2005 and 2004 are as follows:

(In Thousands)

                                                                                                                    Basic
                                                                                                                Income (Loss)
                                                                              Operating             Net           Per Share
                                               Net            Gross            Income              Income       Applicable to
                                              Sales           Profit           (Loss)              (Loss)       Common Shares
                                          ------------     ------------     ------------        ------------        -------------
2005:
  1st Quarter                             $     95,929     $     18,260     $      3,040        $     (6,496)        $      (1.84)
  2nd Quarter                                  105,556           20,544            5,100              (3,925)               (0.72)
  3rd Quarter                                  103,142           19,052           (2,371)            (12,671)               31.36
  4th Quarter                                   99,188           14,766           (3,075)            (11,565)               (1.16)

2004:
  1st Quarter
     As reported                                97,494           18,031            4,142              (1,985)               (1.26)
     Restatement Adjustments
         Hedge accounting/inventory                                                                     (590)
         Precious Metals inventory                                  245              245                 245
         Executive life insurance                                                    (36)                (36)
         Tax Matters                                                                                     (30)
                                          ------------     ------------     ------------        ------------
     As restated                                97,494           18,276            4,351              (2,396)
     Discontinued operations                    (9,755)            (292)             775                  --
                                          ------------     ------------     ------------        ------------
     As presented                               87,739           17,984            5,126               (2,396) (a)          (1.34)

  2nd Quarter
     As reported                               107,840           20,329             (488)               (954)               (1.07)
     Restatement Adjustments
         Long - lived asset impairment                                             5,060               5,060
         Hedge accounting/inventory                                                                    3,666
         Precious Metals inventory                               (2,902)          (2,902)             (2,902)
         Executive life insurance                                                    (36)                (36)
         Tax Matters                                                                                    (375)
                                          ------------     ------------     ------------        ------------
     As restated                               107,840           17,427            1,634               4,459
     Discontinued operations                    (9,370)             484            5,591                  --
                                          ------------     ------------     ------------        ------------
     As presented                               98,470           17,911            7,225 (b)            4,459 (c)           (0.07)

  3rd Quarter
     As reported                               111,483           19,601            5,119              (2,073)               (1.28)
     Restatement Adjustments
         Long - lived asset impairment                                            (4,235)             (4,235)
         Hedge accounting/inventory                                                                   (2,189)
         Precious Metals inventory                                1,343            1,343               1,343
         Executive life insurance                                                    (36)                (36)
         Tax Matters                                                                                    (243)
                                          ------------     ------------     ------------        ------------
     As restated                               111,483           20,944            2,191              (7,433)
     Discontinued operations                    (9,885)           1,093            6,483                  --
                                          ------------     ------------     ------------        ------------
     As presented                              101,598           22,037            8,674 (d)          (7,433)               (2.26)

  4th Quarter                                   84,154           14,980         (120,717)(e)        (135,074)              (25.71)

(a)   Includes $1,161 loss on early retirement of debt.
(b)   Includes $3,940 asset  impairment  charge and $1,275 income on reversal of
      reserve for legal proceeding settled in the Company's favor. Also includes
      $1,707 gain on sale of fixed assets.
(c)   Includes $5,629 gain on sale of WPSC note.
(d)   Includes $4,235 asset impairment charge.
(e)   Includes $ 79,788 goodwill impairment charge, $1,576 restructuring charge,
      $1,784   re-capitalization   expenses,   and   $28,971  in   environmental
      remediation.

92

ITEM  9.  CHANGES  IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES

      None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

      EVALUATION  OF  DISCLOSURE  CONTROLS AND  PROCEDURES.  As required by Rule
13a-15(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  (the "Exchange
Act")  we  conducted  an  evaluation   under  the   supervision   and  with  the
participation of our management,  including the Chief Executive  Officer and the
Chief Financial  Officer,  of the  effectiveness of our disclosure  controls and
procedures  as of the end of the period  covered by this  report.  Based on that
evaluation we identified certain material  weaknesses in our disclosure controls
and procedures  (discussed below), and the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief
Financial  Officer  concluded  that  as of  December  31,  2005  and  2004,  our
disclosure  controls and  procedures  were not  effective  in ensuring  that all
information required to be disclosed in reports that we file or submit under the
Exchange Act is recorded,  processed,  summarized  and reported  within the time
periods  specified  in the SEC rules and  forms  and that  such  information  is
accumulated and  communicated  to our management,  including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial  Officer,  in a manner that allows timely  decisions
regarding required disclosure.

      As more  fully  described  in  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Note 1b to the Consolidated
Financial  Statements,  the Company  determined  it was necessary to restate its
2003  and  prior  years'  audited  consolidated  financial  statements,  and its
unaudited interim consolidated financial statements for all quarters in 2004.

      Notwithstanding the existence of the material weaknesses  discussed below,
the  Company's   management  has  concluded  that  the  consolidated   financial
statements  included in this Form 10-K fairly present, in all material respects,
the Company's financial  position,  results of operations and cash flows for the
interim and annual  periods  presented in  conformity  with  generally  accepted
accounting principles.

      Although  we are not  currently  required  to  assess  and  report  on the
effectiveness  of our internal  control  over  financial  reporting  under Rules
13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Exchange  Act,  management  is required to evaluate the
effectiveness  of our disclosure  controls and procedures  under Rule 13a-15(b).
Because of its inherent limitations,  internal controls over disclosure controls
and procedures may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of  effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that such
controls may become  inadequate  because of changes in  conditions,  or that the
degree  of  compliance  with  such   disclosure   controls  and  procedures  may
deteriorate.

      A material  weakness is a control  deficiency,  or  combination of control
deficiencies  that  results  in more than a remote  likelihood  that a  material
misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented
or  detected.  As of December  31,  2005 and 2004,  we have  concluded  that the
Company did not maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures due to the
following material weaknesses:

            (a) We did not  maintain a sufficient  number of  personnel  with an
            appropriate  level of  knowledge,  experience  and  training  in the
            application of generally accepted accounting principles commensurate
            with the Company's global financial  reporting  requirements and the
            complexity of our operations and transactions.

            (b)  We did  not  maintain  appropriately  designed  and  documented
            company-wide policies and procedures.

            (c) We did not maintain an effective  anti-fraud program designed to
            detect and prevent fraud, including (i) an effective  whistle-blower
            program,  and (ii) an  ongoing  program to manage  identified  fraud
            risks.

      These material weaknesses contributed to the material weaknesses discussed
in items 1 to 6 below and the resulting  restatement of our annual  consolidated
financial  statements  for 2003 and prior years,  restatement  of the  unaudited
consolidated   quarterly  financial   statements  for  2004  as  well  as  audit
adjustments to the 2005 and 2004 annual  consolidated  financial  statements and
the 2005 unaudited  consolidated  quarterly financial statements.  Additionally,
these control deficiencies could result in a material misstatement in any of the
Company's  accounts or disclosures that would result in a material  misstatement
of the annual or interim  consolidated  financial  statements  that would not be
prevented  or detected.  As of December  31, 2005 and 2004,  we did not maintain
effective controls over:

      (1) the accuracy,  valuation and disclosure of our goodwill and intangible
asset  accounts  and the  related  impairment  expense  accounts.  Specifically,
effective  controls  were not  designed  and in place to ensure that an adequate
periodic impairment analysis

93

was conducted, reviewed, and approved in order to identify and accurately record
impairments as required under generally  accepted  accounting  principles.  This
control  deficiency  resulted  in the  restatement  of our  annual  consolidated
financial  statements  for 2003 and prior  years,  and the  unaudited  quarterly
consolidated  financial statements for 2004, as well as audit adjustments to the
annual  2004  consolidated  financial  statements.  Additionally,  this  control
deficiency  could  result in a material  misstatement  of  goodwill,  intangible
assets and related  impairment  expense accounts that would result in a material
misstatement  of the annual or interim  consolidated  financial  statements that
would not be prevented or detected. Accordingly,  management has determined that
this control deficiency constitutes a material weakness.

      (2) the  accounting  for income  taxes,  including  the  completeness  and
accuracy of income taxes payable,  deferred  income tax assets,  liabilities and
related valuation allowances and the income tax provision.  Specifically, we did
not  appropriately  apply  generally  accepted  accounting   principles  in  the
estimation  of tax reserves and the  recording of valuation  allowances  against
deferred tax assets. Additionally, we did not have effective controls to monitor
the difference between the income tax basis and the financial reporting basis of
assets and  liabilities  and  reconcile the  difference  to deferred  income tax
assets and liabilities.  This control deficiency  resulted in the restatement of
the annual  consolidated  financial  statements for 2003 and prior years and all
unaudited  quarterly  consolidated  financial  statements  for  2004  and  audit
adjustments to the annual  consolidated  financial  statements for 2005 and 2004
and  the   2005   unaudited   consolidated   quarterly   financial   statements.
Additionally, this control deficiency could result in a material misstatement of
income taxes payable,  deferred  income tax assets and  liabilities,  income tax
provision  and other  comprehensive  income  that  would  result  in a  material
misstatement  of the annual or interim  consolidated  financial  statements that
would not be prevented or detected. Accordingly,  management has determined that
this control deficiency constitutes a material weakness.

      (3)  the  completeness  and  accuracy  of  our  environmental  remediation
liability  reserves.  Specifically,  we  did  not  have  effective  controls  to
accurately  estimate or monitor for completeness our  environmental  remediation
liabilities  arising from  contractual  obligations or regulatory  requirements.
This  control  deficiency  resulted  in audit  adjustments  to the 2005 and 2004
annual  consolidated  financial  statements  and the  2005  unaudited  quarterly
consolidated financial statements.  Additionally,  this control deficiency could
result  in  a  material  misstatement  of  environmental  remediation  liability
reserves and environmental  remediation expenses that would result in a material
misstatement to annual or interim  consolidated  financial statements that would
not be prevented or detected.  Accordingly,  management has determined that this
control deficiency constitutes a material weakness.

      (4)  the  valuation  of  long-lived   assets  for   impairment   purposes.
Specifically,  we did not have  effective  controls to ensure the  accuracy  and
valuation  of an  impairment  charge taken in the second  quarter of 2004.  This
control  deficiency  resulted  in  a  restatement  of  our  unaudited  quarterly
condensed consolidated financial statements for the second and third quarters of
2004 and audit adjustments in the annual consolidated  financial  statements for
2004.  Additionally,   this  control  deficiency  could  result  in  a  material
misstatement of property,  plant and equipment and asset impairment charges that
would result in a material  misstatement  of the annual or interim  consolidated
financial  statements  that would not be  prevented  or  detected.  Accordingly,
management has determined  that this control  deficiency  constitutes a material
weakness.

      (5) the  accounting  for  derivative  instruments  and hedging  activities
related to precious metal inventory.  Specifically,  effective controls were not
designed and in place to ensure the appropriate documentation had been completed
in order to qualify for hedge  accounting  treatment with respect to futures and
forward contracts  specifically  purchased to mitigate the Company's exposure to
changes  in  the  value  of  precious  metal  inventory,  including  appropriate
identification  of the instruments,  assessment of effectiveness and maintenance
of   contemporaneous   documentation  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted
accounting  principles.  This control deficiency  resulted in the restatement of
the annual  consolidated  financial  statements  for the year ended December 31,
2003 and  prior  years,  the 2004  unaudited  quarterly  consolidated  financial
statements,  as well as audit adjustments in the annual  consolidated  financial
statements  for 2005 and 2004  and the  2005  unaudited  quarterly  consolidated
financial  statements.  Additionally,  this control deficiency could result in a
material  misstatement  of  inventory  and cost of  goods  sold as well as other
current  assets or accrued  liabilities  and other income  (expense)  that would
result  in a  material  misstatement  of  the  annual  or  interim  consolidated
financial  statements  that would not be  prevented  or  detected.  Accordingly,
management has determined  that this control  deficiency  constitutes a material
weakness.

      (6) the  preparation  and  review of the  consolidated  statement  of cash
flows. Specifically, we did not maintain effective controls over the accuracy of
the classification of short-term borrowings used to fund purchases of short-term
investments  as cash flows from financing  activities,  as required by generally
accepted  accounting  principles.   This  control  deficiency  resulted  in  the
restatement of the annual consolidated  financial  statements for the year ended
December 31, 2003 and prior years.  Additionally,  this control deficiency could
result in a material  misstatement  of operating and  financing  cash flows that
would result in a material  misstatement  of the annual or interim  consolidated
financial  statements  that would not be  prevented  or  detected.  Accordingly,
management has determined  that this control  deficiency  constitutes a material
weakness.

94

PLANS FOR REMEDIATION

The Company has taken the following  actions to address the material  weaknesses
noted above.

      o     Engaged  an  independent  third-party  valuation  firm in the second
            quarter of 2005 to assist management in evaluating the impairment of
            goodwill and intangible asset accounts;

      o     Increased the Company's accounting and financial resources by hiring
            an Assistant  Controller  and a Treasurer  and  retaining a regional
            accounting firm of certified public  accountants to assist financial
            management in addressing various accounting matters;

      o     Increased  the  level  of  review  and   discussion  on  significant
            accounting  matters,  including  goodwill  valuation,  environmental
            issues, tax matters,  cash flow presentation and hedging and related
            supporting documentation with senior finance management;

      o     Consolidated corporate office functions;

      o     Improved controls regarding timely  communication of all significant
            events to management and the Board of Directors; and

      o     Enhanced the monthly  financial  reporting to senior  management and
            the Board.

Additional actions planned by management include:

      o     Hiring additional experienced financial personnel;

      o     Updating the Company's  accounting policies and procedures to ensure
            such accounting policies and procedures are complete and current;

      o     Considering the engagement of an additional  third party resource to
            support the internal accounting and financial personnel; and

      o     Reviewing  and  modifying  the  nature and scope of  internal  audit
            activities.

      Management will consider the design and operating  effectiveness  of these
actions and will make additional  changes it determines  appropriate.  We cannot
assure you that the measures we have taken,  or will take,  to  remediate  these
material  weaknesses  will  be  effective  or that  we  will  be  successful  in
implementing  them before  December 31, 2007 or December 31, 2008,  the dates on
which  the  Company  and its  independent  registered  public  accounting  firm,
respectively,  must first report on the  effectiveness  of our internal  control
over financial  reporting under the Section 404 provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act.

      Internal  control over disclosure  controls and procedures,  no matter how
well designed, has inherent limitations. Therefore, even those internal controls
determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to
financial  statement  preparation and presentation.  We will continue to improve
the design and  effectiveness  of our disclosure  controls and procedures to the
extent  necessary  in the future to provide  our senior  management  with timely
access to such material information, and to correct any deficiencies that we may
discover in the future.

95

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

      Set forth below are the names and certain  other  information  relating to
the current members of the Board of Directors:

                                              PRINCIPAL OCCUPATION                            FIRST YEAR
                                            FOR THE PAST FIVE YEARS                             BECAME
NAME                                    AND CURRENT PUBLIC DIRECTORSHIPS             AGE      A DIRECTOR
- ----                                    --------------------------------             ---      ----------
Warren G. Lichtenstein        CHAIRMAN  OF  THE  BOARD  OF  DIRECTORS.  Warren  G.    40         2005
                              Lichtenstein   is  a  Co-Founder  and  the  Managing
                              Member of Steel  Partners  II, L.P.,  an  investment
                              partnership.  In 1993,  Steel  Partners II, LP began
                              investing  in  undervalued   securities,   including
                              equity and debt (senior and  subordinated) of public
                              and  private   companies   in  easy  to   understand
                              businesses.

                              Prior  to  opening   Steel   Partners  II,  LP,  Mr.
                              Lichtenstein  co-founded  Steel  Partners,  L.P.  in
                              1990 and  co-managed  the business and operations of
                              that partnership.

                              Mr.  Lichtenstein  previously  worked at  Ballantrae
                              Partners,    L.P.   as   an    acquisition/arbitrage
                              analyst.   Ballantrae  invested  in risk  arbitrage,
                              special  situations,   and  undervalued   companies,
                              which  the  partnership   desired  to  influence  or
                              control. Mr.  Lichtenstein  began his career in 1988
                              as  an  analyst  at  Para  Partners,   L.P.,   which
                              invested in arbitrage and related situations.

                              In  association  with Steel  Partners II, L.P.,  Mr.
                              Lichtenstein  is  a  Co-Founder  of  Steel  Partners
                              Japan  Strategic  Fund,  Steel Partners China Access
                              Fund I LP, and President and CEO of Steel  Partners,
                              Ltd.   He is also a  director  of KT G  Corporation,
                              and  Chairman  of  SL   Industries,   Inc.,   United
                              Industrial  Corporation,  and WHX Corporation.  Over
                              the past 15 years,  Warren  has served as a director
                              of  a   number   of   companies   including:   Alpha
                              Technologies  Group, Aydin Corp., BKF,  CellPro/CPX,
                              ECC International  Corporation,  Gateway Industries,
                              Layne  Christensen   Company,   PLM   International,
                              Puroflow,  Inc.,  Saratoga Beverage Group,  Synercom
                              Technologies,  TAB,  Tandycrafts,   Tech-Sym  Corp.,
                              USDL and Webfinancial.

                              Mr.  Lichtenstein is a graduate of the University of
                              Pennsylvania with a degree in Economics.

Joshua Schechter              DIRECTOR.  Vice  President  of SPL since  June 2001.    33         2005
                              Associate  in  the   corporate   finance   group  of
                              Imperial  Capital  LLC,  a provider  of mergers  and
                              acquisitions  advisory services,  from March 1998 to
                              June  2001.  Senior  analyst at Leifer  Capital,  an
                              investment  bank, from August 1997 to February 1998.
                              Tax  consultant  at Ernst   Young,  LLP from January
                              1996 to July 1997.  Director  of  Jackson  Products,
                              Inc. since 2004.

96

John Quicke                   DIRECTOR  AND  VICE  PRESIDENT.  Vice  President  of    56         2005
                              SPL  since  September  2005.  He  has  served  as  a
                              director  of  WHX  since  July  2005  and  as a Vice
                              President  since October 2005.  Director,  Chairman,
                              of  NOVT  Corporation  ("NOVT")  since  April  2006.
                              Director of Layne  Christensen  since  October 2006.
                              Director of Angelica  Corporation since August 2006.
                              A director,  President and Chief  Operating  Officer
                              of  Sequa  Corporation,   a  diversified  industrial
                              company,  from 1993 to March 2004, and Vice Chairman
                              and  Executive  Officer  of Sequa from March 2004 to
                              March 2005. As Vice  Chairman and Executive  Officer
                              of  Sequa,   Mr.  Quicke  was  responsible  for  the
                              Automotive,   Metal  Coating,  Specialty  Chemicals,
                              Industrial  Machinery  and Other  Product  operating
                              segments of the  company.  Occasionally  served as a
                              consultant  to Steel  and  explored  other  business
                              opportunities from March 2005 to August 2005.

Glen M. Kassan                VICE  CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF  DIRECTORS  AND CHIEF    63         2005
                              EXECUTIVE  OFFICER.  Executive Vice President of SPL
                              and  its  predecessor   since  June  2001  and  Vice
                              President  of  its  predecessor  from  October  1999
                              through May 2001.  Vice  President,  Chief Financial
                              Officer and  Secretary  of  WebFinancial  since June
                              2000.  Director  of  SL  since  January  2002,  Vice
                              Chairman   since  August  2005  and  President  from
                              February 2002 through  August 2005.  Director of UIC
                              since 2004.

Jack L. Howard                DIRECTOR.    Registered    principal    of    Mutual    45         2005
                              Securities, Inc., a registered broker-dealer,  since
                              1989.  Vice  President  of SPL and  its  predecessor
                              since  December  2003.   Director  of   WebFinancial
                              since   1996  and   Vice   President   since   1997.
                              Secretary,  Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer of
                              WebFinancial  from  1997 to  2000.  Chairman  of the
                              Board  and  Chief   Executive   Officer  of  Gateway
                              Industries,    Inc.,    a   provider   of   database
                              development  and Web  site  design  and  development
                              services,  since  February  2004,  Vice President of
                              Gateway since  December 2001 and director  since May
                              1994.  Director  of Cosine  Communications  Inc.,  a
                              global telecommunications  equipment supplier, since
                              July  2005.   Director  of  BNS  Holding,   Inc.,  a
                              holding  company  that owns the  majority of Collins
                              Industries,   a   manufacturer   of  school   buses,
                              ambulances, and terminal trucks..

Louis Klein Jr.               DIRECTOR.   Trustee  of  Manville   Personal  Injury    71         2002
                              Settlement  Trust since  1991.  Trustee of WT Mutual
                              Fund and WT Investment  Trust I  (Wilmington  Trust)
                              since  1998.  Trustee of the CRM  Mutual  Fund since
                              2005  and  Director  of  Bulwick  Corporation  since
                              1998,  a  private  company  engaged  in real  estate
                              investment.

Garen W. Smith                DIRECTOR.  Chairman  of the  Board of Handy   Harman    63         2002
                              from 2003 through  September  2005.  Vice President,
                              Secretary  and  Treasurer  of  Abundance   Corp.,  a
                              consulting  company  that  provides  services to the
                              Company from 2002 to February  2005.  President  and
                              Chief  Executive  Officer  of  Unimast  Incorporated
                              from 1991 to 2002.

97

Daniel P. Murphy              DIRECTOR;  PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE  OFFICER OF    45         2005
                              H H.  President  of H H since  February  2003.  Vice
                              President  of H H  Engineered  Materials  Group from
                              January 2002  through  February  2003.  President of
                              Olympic  Manufacturing  Group,  Inc.  from  February
                              1994 through December 2001.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

      The  following  table  contains  the  names,  positions  and  ages  of the
executive officers of the Company who are not directors.

                                                    PRINCIPAL OCCUPATION FOR THE PAST
NAME                                           FIVE YEARS AND CURRENT PUBLIC DIRECTORSHIPS                     AGE
- ----                                           -------------------------------------------                     ---
Robert K. Hynes                CHIEF FINANCIAL  OFFICER.  Chief Financial  Officer since January 2003. Vice     51
                               President--Finance  from June 2001 through  January 2003. Vice  President of
                               H H since March 2000.  Director of Audit and Financial Standards of H H from
                               April 1995 through March 2000.

Ellen T. Harmon                VICE  PRESIDENT,  GENERAL  COUNSEL  AND SECRETARY.  Vice  President,  General    52
                               Counsel and  Secretary of each of the Company and H H since  February  2006.
                               Senior Vice  President,  General  Counsel and  Secretary of The Robert Allen
                               Group,  Inc., an international  designer and distributor of home furnishings
                               and fabrics to the interior design trade, furniture  manufacturers,  and the
                               contract and  hospitality  markets,  from January 2004 through January 2006.
                               Vice  President,  General  Counsel and  Secretary  of  Metallurg,  Inc.,  an
                               international  producer  and  supplier  of  high-quality  specialty  metals,
                               alloys   and   metallic    chemicals   utilized   in   the   production   of
                               high-performance  aluminum and titanium alloys, specialty steel, superalloys
                               and  certain   non-metallic   materials  for  various  applications  in  the
                               aerospace,   power  supply,   automotive,   petrochemical   processing   and
                               telecommunications industries, from 1999 through 2002.

AUDIT COMMITTEE

      The  Company  has  a  separately-standing   audit  committee  (the  "Audit
Committee") established in accordance with Section 3(a) (58) (A) of the Exchange
Act. The members of the Audit  Committee are Louis Klein Jr. and Garen W. Smith.
Each of Messrs.  Klein and Smith are  non-employee  members of the Board.  After
reviewing the qualifications of the current members of the Audit Committee,  and
any  relationships  they may have  with the  Company  that  might  affect  their
independence  from the Company,  the Board has  determined  that (1) all current
Audit Committee  members are "independent" as that concept is defined in Section
10A of the Exchange Act, (2) all current Audit Committee members are financially
literate,  and (3) Mr. Klein qualifies as an "audit committee  financial expert"
under the applicable rules promulgated pursuant to the Exchange Act.

NOMINATING COMMITTEE

      The members of the Nominating  Committee,  which last took action in 2004,
are no longer  directors of the  Company.  The Company has adopted a policy with
respect to  procedures  by which  stockholders  may  recommend  nominees  to the
Company's   Board  of  Directors  as  further   described  in  the   Stockholder
Recommendations   below.   The  Company's   Board  has  assumed  the  roles  and
responsibilities  of the  nominating  committee and is giving  consideration  to
reconstituting the Nominating Committee and adopting a charter.

STOCKHOLDER RECOMMENDATIONS

      The  Company  has adopted a policy  with  respect to  procedures  by which
stockholders  may recommend  nominees to the Company's Board of Directors.  This
policy  is  identical  to the  policy  in  place  prior to  confirmation  of the
Company's  Plan with the  exception of the address of the  Company's  Secretary.
Stockholders  wishing to submit  recommendations for candidates to be considered
for election  should write to the  Corporate  Secretary,  WHX  Corporation,  555
Theodore Fremd Avenue,  Rye, New York 10580.  Any such stockholder must meet and
evidence  the minimum  eligibility  requirements  specified in Exchange Act Rule
14a-8 and must submit,  within the same  timeframe for  submitting a stockholder
proposal  required by Rule 14a-8:  (1) evidence in accordance with Rule 14a-8 of
compliance  with  the  stockholder  eligibility  requirements,  (2) the  written
consent of the candidate(s) for nomination as a director, (3) a

98

resume or other written  statement of the  qualifications  of a candidate(s) for
nomination as a director, and (4) all information regarding the candidate(s) and
the  submitting  stockholder  that would be required to be  disclosed in a proxy
statement filed with the SEC if the candidate(s)  were nominated for election to
the Board,  including  the number and class of all shares of each class of stock
of the Company owned of record and  beneficially  by each such persons,  and the
name and address of the submitting stockholder(s).

SECTION 16(A) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE

      Section  16(a)  of the  Exchange  Act  requires  the  Company's  executive
officers and directors,  and persons who  beneficially own more than ten percent
(10%) of a registered class of the Company's equity securities,  to file reports
of ownership and changes in ownership  with the SEC. In addition,  under Section
16(a),  trusts for which a reporting  person is a trustee and a beneficiary  (or
for which a member of his immediate family is a beneficiary) may have a separate
reporting  obligation  with regard to  ownership  of the Common  Stock and other
equity  securities of the Company.  Such reporting persons are required by rules
of the SEC to furnish the Company with copies of all Section  16(a) reports they
file.  Based  solely upon a review of the copies of such forms  furnished to the
Company and  written  representations  from the  Company's  executive  officers,
directors  and  greater  than ten percent  (10%)  beneficial  stockholders,  the
Company  believes  that during the year ended  December  31,  2005,  all persons
subject to the  reporting  requirements  of  Section  16(a)  filed the  required
reports on a timely basis.

CODE OF CONDUCT AND ETHICS

      The  Company  has  adopted a written  Code of Ethics  that  applies to its
principal executive officer,  principal financial officer,  principal accounting
officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions.

SEC FILINGS

      The public may read and attain  copies of the  Company's  filings from the
SEC at the public  reference room at 450 Fifth St, N.W.,  Washington D.C. 20549.
The Company is an electronic  filer with the SEC and its reports,  proxies,  and
information statements are maintained at the following site: HTTP://WWW.SEC.GOV.
Shareholders  may request a written copy of the report by writing to the Company
at.  555  Theodore  Fremd  Avenue  Rye,  New  York  10580,  attention  Corporate
Secretary.

99

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

      SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal
years indicated, all compensation awarded to, paid to or earned by the following
type of executive  officers for the fiscal years ended  December 31, 2003,  2004
and 2005:  (i)  individuals  who  served  as, or acted in the  capacity  of, the
Company's  principal  executive  officer for the fiscal year ended  December 31,
2005; (ii) the Company's four most highly compensated executive officers,  which
together with the principal  executive  officer are the most highly  compensated
officers of the Company whose salary and bonus exceeded $100,000 with respect to
the fiscal  year ended  December  31,  2005 and who were  employed at the end of
fiscal year 2004; and (iii) up to two additional individuals for whom disclosure
would have been provided but for the fact that the individual was not serving as
an executive  officer of the Company at the end of fiscal year 2005. Please note
that the  executive  officers  identified  in (i),  (ii)  and  (iii)  above  are
collectively referred to as the "Named Executive Officers."

                           SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE

                                                                  Long Term
Name and Principal Position             Annual Compensation      Compensation
- ---------------------------             -------------------       -----------
                                                                  Securities       All Other
                                         Salary      Bonus        Underlying      Compensation
                              Year        ($)       ($)(1)        Options (#)         ($)
                              ----      -------     -------       -----------     ------------
Glen M. Kassan (2)            2005         -           -               -               -
Chief Executive Officer       2004         -           -               -               -
                              2003         -           -               -               -

Daniel Murphy                 2005      416,346     100,000            -            256,556 (3)
President of H H              2004      350,000     140,000          20,000           1,397 (4)
                              2003      337,307     125,000         100,000           1,323 (4)

Robert K. Hynes               2005      250,000      40,000            -            251,505 (3)
Chief Financial Officer       2004      250,000     100,000          15,000             815 (4)
                              2003      249,846      75,000          20,000             785 (4)

Neale X. Trangucci (5)        2005      423,077     250,000 (6)        -          1,399,466 (8)
Former Chief Executive        2004      497,115     100,000 (7)                           -
Officer                       2003         -           -             45,000               -

Stewart E. Tabin (9)          2005      384,615     250,000 (6)        -          1,259,231 (10)
Former President              2004      451,923     100,000 (7)                           -
                              2003         -           -             45,000               -

Neil D. Arnold (11)           2005      276,923     250,000 (6)        -            900,000 (12)
Former Executive Chairman     2004      406,731     100,000 (7)
of the Board                  2003         -           -             45,000         500,000 (13)-

- ----------
(1)   Each of Messrs.  Hynes and Murphy  were  granted a bonus by the Company in
      each of 2006, 2005 and 2004 for services  performed in the prior year. All
      bonus amounts have been  attributed to the year in which the services were
      performed.

(2)   Mr. Kassan was appointed  Chief  Executive  Officer on October 7, 2005. In
      2005,  Mr. Kassan  received no  compensation.  In 2006,  the  Compensation
      Committee  approved  a  salary  of  $600,000  per  annun  for Mr.  Kassan,
      effective January 1, 2006.

(3)   Each of  Messrs.  Hynes and Murphy  were  awarded a bonus of  $250,000  to
      encourage  each of them to remain an  employee in good  standing  with the
      company through at least March 31, 2006.

(4)   Insurance premiums paid by the Company.

(5)   Mr. Trangucci was appointed Chief Executive Officer effective  February 1,
      2004 and resigned effective  September 20, 2005.  Pursuant to a management
      agreement  effective as of January 3, 1991 and  terminated  on January 31,
      2004, WPN Corp.  provided financial,  management,  advisory and consulting
      services to the Company. Mr. Trangucci was an officer of WPN until January
      2004.

(6)   Each of Messrs. Trangucci,  Tabin and Arnold were paid a bonus of $250,000
      upon confirmation of the plan filed by the company under Chapter 11 of the
      United States Code as a reward for remaining with the company.

(7)   Bonus was granted in February 2005 in recognition of services in 2004.

100

(8)   Mr.  Trangucci was paid a severance of $1.1 million  pursuant to the terms
      of his employment  agreement as well as $299,466 pursuant to the company's
      Supplemental Executive Retirement Program.

(9)   Mr. Tabin was appointed  President effective February 1, 2004 and resigned
      effective September 20, 2005. Pursuant to a management agreement effective
      as of  January  3, 1991 and  terminated  on January  31,  2004,  WPN Corp.
      provided  financial,  management,  advisory and consulting services to the
      Company. Mr. Tabin was an officer of WPN until January 2004.

(10)  Mr.  Tabin was paid a severance  payment of $1.0  million  pursuant to the
      terms of his  employment  agreement  as well as  $259,231  pursuant to the
      company's Supplemental Executive Retirement Program.

(11)  Mr. Arnold was appointed  Chairman effective February 1, 2004 and resigned
      effective  August 10, 2005,  prior to such time Mr.  Arnold  served as the
      Company's Principal Executive Officer in 2004.

(12)  Mr. Arnold was paid a severance  payment of $900,000 pursuant to the terms
      of his employment agreement.

(13)  Mr. Arnold did not receive such  compensation  from the Company but rather
      from WPN as payment for Mr.  Arnold's  services as an officer of WPN.  Mr.
      Arnold joined WPN as an officer in August 2001.

      OPTION GRANTS TABLE. No stock option grants were made to each of the Named
Executive Officers during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.

      No options  were held by the Named  Executive  Officers as of December 31,
2005.

      LONG-TERM  INCENTIVE AND PENSION PLANS. Other than as described below, the
Company does not have any long-term incentive or defined benefit pension plans.

      In January  1999,  H H amended and restated its Long Term  Incentive  Plan
("LTIP"), in which the final cycle had been terminated on December 31, 1998. The
LTIP is a  performance-based  plan pursuant to which  executives of H H earn the
right to receive awards based on the  achievement of  pre-established  financial
performance and other goals.  The amended LTIP  established  overlapping  cycles
with each cycle  encompassing five fiscal years,  commencing on January 1, 1999.
LTIP  participants  are  selected  by  H H's  Chief  Executive  Officer  and the
Compensation Committee of the Board of the Company. Mr. Murphy is the only Named
Executive Officers who participates in the Amended and Restated LTIP.

      H H maintains a  Supplemental  Executive  Retirement  Plan ("H H SERP") to
provide  executive  officers the amount of reduction  in their  formula  pension
benefits  under the WHX Pension Plan on account of the  limitation  on pay under
Section  401(a) (17) of the Internal  Revenue Code ("IRC") and the limitation on
benefits under Section 415 of the IRC. The H H SERP also applies the WHX Pension
Plan formula to the Career  Average Pay  generally  after  including  25% of the
bonus  amounts  received.  This plan was frozen as of December 31, 2005 and will
recognize  no pay or service  after this date.  The second  plan,  the WHX SERP,
provides benefits to named executives of WHX. The benefits for the WHX SERP were
fully  paid-out under change in control  provisions  during 2005 after which the
plan was terminated.  The  participants  who were paid-out of the WHX SERP still
have deferred vested benefits under the WHX Pension Plan. Amounts received under
the SERPs are not subject to Cost of Living increases.

      The following table shows the projected Annual  Retirement  Benefits.  For
participants  employed on December 31, 2005, these benefits are shown as payable
on the basis of ten years of certain  payments and  thereafter for life, to each
of the individuals  listed in the Summary  Compensation Table at age 65 assuming
continuation of employment  until age 65. For  participants  who were terminated
during 2005,  their lump sum benefit amount from the SERP and their deferred age
65 annual  benefit from the WHX Pension Plan are shown.  The amounts shown under
Salary  reflect  the  2005  rate of  salary  as plan  compensation  for  Messrs.
Trangucci, Tabin, Hynes and Murphy of $550,000, $500,000, $250,000 and $350,000,
respectively,  and include the benefits  payable under both the WHX Pension Plan
and the SERPs.  The amount of benefits  shown under Bonus would be payable under
the H H SERP and assumes continuation of the amount of Bonus received on average
over the prior 3 fiscal years (2002 - 2004).

EXECUTIVE PENSION BENEFITS

                       Normal Retirement                                        Annual Retirement Benefits From:
Name                      Date ("NRD")          Service At NRD*              Salary          Bonus          Total
- ----                      ------------          ---------------              ------          -----          -----
R.K. Hynes               Sept. 1, 2019           16 yrs. 5 mos.             $49,033         $4,618         $53,651
D.P. Murphy              May 1, 2026              4 yrs. 0 mos.              23,820          1,840          25,660

* This plan was frozen as of  December  31,  2005 and will  recognize  no pay or
service after this date.

101

FOR THE FOLLOWING PARTICIPANTS, ALL BENEFITS ARE SALARY RELATED.

                                                                                                Annual Age 65 WHX
Name                    Termination Date       Service At Term         Lump Sum SERP                 Pension
- ----                    ----------------       ---------------         -------------            -----------------
N.X. Trangucci           July 31, 2005          14 yrs. 7 mos.            $299,466         -         $30,961
S.E. Tabin               July 31, 2005          14 yrs. 7 mos.             259,231         -          31,048

      DEFERRED COMPENSATION  AGREEMENTS.  Except as described below with respect
to the employment agreements of Messrs. Trangucci,  Tabin, Arnold, Hynes, Smith,
and Murphy,  no plan or arrangement  exists which results in  compensation  to a
Named  Executive  Officer  in excess of  $100,000  upon  such  officer's  future
termination of employment or upon a change-of-control.

      BOARD COMPENSATION.  Prior to the Effective Date of the Plan, Directors of
the  Company who were not  employees  of the  Company or its  subsidiaries  were
entitled  to receive  compensation  for  serving as  directors  in the amount of
$40,000 per annum, $1,000 per Board meeting, $800 per Committee meeting attended
in person,  $500 per telephonic  meeting (other than the Stock Option  Committee
and the Audit Committee),  and $1,000 per day of consultation and other services
provided  other than at  meetings  of the Board or  Committees  thereof,  at the
request of the  Chairman  of the Board.  Committee  Chairmen  also  received  an
additional  annual fee of $1,800 (other than the Stock Option  Committee and the
Audit Committee).  Each Audit Committee member received a payment of $20,000 per
year, and the chairman of the Audit Committee  received a payment of $25,000 per
year.

      After the Effective Date of the Plan, Directors of the Company who are (1)
not employees of the Company or its  subsidiaries  or (2)  otherwise  affiliated
with the Company are entitled to receive  compensation  for serving as directors
in the amount of $20,000 per annum, $1,000 per Board meeting attended in person,
$800 per Committee  meeting  attended in person,  $500 per  telephonic  Board or
Committee  meeting (other than the members of the Stock Option Committee and the
Audit  Committee),  and  $1,000  per day for  consultation  and  other  services
provided  (other  than at meetings of the Board or  Committees  thereof,  at the
request  of  the  Chairman  of  the  Board).  Committee  Chairmen  also  receive
additional  compensation  in the amount of $1,800 per annum (other than Chairmen
of the Stock Option  Committee and the Audit  Committee).  Each Audit  Committee
member  receives  a payment of $5,000 per year,  and the  Chairman  of the Audit
Committee receives a payment of $10,000 per year.

      Mr.  Garen W. Smith  became a  consultant  of the  Company  pursuant  to a
one-year  consulting  agreement  between the Company and  Abundance  Corporation
("Abundance"),  of which Mr. Smith is an officer and an employee, dated February
12, 2003. The agreement terminated pursuant to its terms in February 2005.

      EMPLOYMENT  AGREEMENTS.  Mr. Neale X.  Trangucci  became  Chief  Executive
Officer  of the  Company  pursuant  to a  two-year  employment  agreement  dated
February 1, 2004.  The  agreement  provides for an annual salary of no less than
$550,000 and an annual bonus to be awarded at the Company's sole discretion.  In
the event that either (i) the  agreement is terminated by the Company other than
with cause, or (ii) he elects termination following a material diminution in his
position or a change in control of the  Company,  Mr.  Trangucci  will receive a
payment  of twice the base  salary in  effect  at the time of  termination.  Mr.
Trangucci was granted a bonus of $100,000 in February 2005 in recognition of his
services in 2004.  Effective  March 4, 2005, the Company entered into an Amended
and Restated  Employment  Agreement with Mr. Trangucci,  as described below. Mr.
Trangucci  resigned from his position with the Company  effective  September 20,
2005 as further discussed below.

      Mr. Stewart E. Tabin was employed as President of the Company  pursuant to
a two-year  employment  agreement dated February 1, 2004. The agreement provides
for an annual  salary of no less than $500,000 and an annual bonus to be awarded
at the Company's sole discretion.  In the event that either (i) the agreement is
terminated by the Company other than with cause,  or (ii) he elects  termination
following a material  diminution  in his  position or a change in control of the
Company,  Mr. Tabin will receive a payment of twice the base salary in effect at
the time of  termination.  Mr. Tabin was granted a bonus of $100,000 in February
2005 in  recognition  of his  services  in 2004.  Effective  March 4, 2005,  the
Company  entered  into an Amended and  Restated  Employment  Agreement  with Mr.
Tabin, as described below. Mr. Tabin resigned from his position with the Company
effective September 20, 2005 as further discussed below.

      Mr. Neil Arnold  became  Executive  Chairman of the Company  pursuant to a
two-year employment agreement dated February 1, 2004. The agreement provides for
an annual  salary of no less than  $450,000 and an annual bonus to be awarded at
the  Company's  sole  discretion.  In the event that either (i) the agreement is
terminated by the Company other than with cause,  or (ii) he elects  termination
following a material  diminution  in his  position or a change in control of the
Company, Mr. Arnold will receive a payment of twice the base salary in effect at
the time of termination.  Mr. Arnold was granted a bonus of $100,000 in February
2005 in  recognition  of his  services  in 2004.  Effective  March 4, 2005,  the
Company  entered  into an Amended and  Restated  Employment  Agreement  with Mr.
Arnold,  as described  below.  Mr.  Arnold  resigned  from his position with the
Company effective August 10, 2005 as further discussed below.

102

Mr. Robert K. Hynes became Vice  President-Finance of the Company pursuant
to a one-year  employment  agreement dated July 1, 2001, which has been and will
continue to be  automatically  extended for successive  one-year  periods unless
earlier terminated  pursuant to the provisions of such agreement.  Mr. Hynes was
promoted to Chief Financial Officer in January 2003. The agreement  provides for
an annual salary to Mr. Hynes of no less than $250,000 and an annual bonus to be
awarded at the  Company's  sole  discretion.  Mr.  Hynes was  granted a bonus of
$40,000, $100,000 and $75,000 in each of 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively,  for
services  performed  in the prior  year.  In the event  that his  employment  is
terminated  by the  Company  other than with  cause,  Mr.  Hynes will  receive a
payment of one year's base  salary at the highest  rate in effect for the twelve
preceding  months plus bonus plan and compensation  accrued.  Effective March 4,
2005, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with
Mr. Hynes, as described below.

      Mr. Daniel Murphy has been the  President of H H since  February  2003. On
February 11, 2004, Mr. Murphy entered into a two-year employment  agreement with
H H, which has been and will be automatically  extended for successive  two-year
periods unless earlier terminated  pursuant to the provisions of such agreement.
The  agreement  provides  for an annual  salary of no less than  $350,000 and an
annual bonus to be awarded at H H's sole discretion, as ratified by the Board of
the Company.  Mr. Murphy was granted bonuses of $100,000,  $140,000 and $125,000
in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively,  for services performed in the prior year.
In the event that either (i) the  agreement is terminated by H H other than with
cause,  or (ii) he elects  termination  following a material  diminution  in his
position or a change in control of H H, Mr. Murphy will receive a payment of two
years' base salary at the base salary in effect at the time of termination.

      On March 4, 2005, WHX and H H entered into amended and restated employment
agreements  with each of  Messers.  Trangucci,  Tabin,  Arnold and  Hynes.  Such
amended and restated  employment  agreements had the following principal changes
from each such executive's original employment agreement: (i) H H was added as a
party and each of such executives' duties were expanded to specifically  include
the performance of executive  management services on behalf of H  (ii) each of
Messrs. Trangucci, Tabin and Arnold are entitled to a bonus of $250,000 upon the
entry of an order by a court of competent  jurisdiction  confirming a plan filed
by the Company, or its successor, under Chapter 11 of the United States Code, if
such executive is still employed by the WHX Group on such date, and if not still
employed  on  such  date,  such  bonus  shall  be  paid  under  certain  limited
circumstances;  (iii) the Amended and Restated Employment Agreements for each of
Messrs.  Tabin and Trangucci provide for certain retirement benefits pursuant to
a separate unfunded agreement to the extent such benefits cannot be fully funded
under the WHX  Group's  Pension  Plan;  (iv) the Company and H H are jointly and
severally  liable for all amounts to be paid to each executive there under;  and
(v) the indemnification  provisions were amended to, among other things, provide
for  indemnification  of the  executives by the WHX Group to the fullest  extent
permitted by the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws and Delaware
General  Corporation  Law. On March 4, 2005,  the WHX Group also adopted the WHX
Corporation  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective as of February 1,
2004,  which  provides  for  specified  benefits  to be paid to  certain  of the
executives  pursuant  to the  terms of their  Amended  and  Restated  Employment
Agreements.

      Each of Messrs.  Trangucci,  Tabin and Arnold  received a bonus payment of
$250,000 on July 26, 2005, in connection with the confirmation of the plan filed
by WHX under Chapter 11 of the United States Code pursuant to the terms of their
amended and restated employment  agreements.  In connection with his resignation
on August 10,  2005 Mr.  Arnold  received a  severance  payment of  $900,000  as
required by his Employment  Agreement  following the Effective Date of the Plan.
In connection  with the  resignation  of Messrs.  Trangucci and Tabin from their
respective  positions with the Company on September 20, 2005, Messrs.  Trangucci
and Tabin  received  severance  payments equal to $1.1 million and $1.0 million,
respectively as required by each of their  employment  agreements  following the
Effective Date of the Plan.

      Pursuant to  Acknowledgement  and Release  Agreements,  dated November 10,
2005, each of Messrs.  Murphy and Hynes agreed to remain with the Company in the
period after the Company's emergence from bankruptcy. Each of Messrs. Murphy and
Hynes  agreed to remain an employee  of the  Company  through at least March 31,
2006 in exchange for (i) a cash bonus of $250,000  paid on March 31, 2006 to Mr.
Murphy,  and $250,000 to Mr. Hynes,  payable in installments,  the last of which
vests upon  filing of the  Company's  2005 Annual  Report on Form 10-K,  (ii) an
increase in the life insurance levels provided in the H H  Post-Retirement  Life
Insurance  Program and (iii)  recommendation to the Board of 100,000 options and
25,000 options,  respectively, to purchase Company common stock upon adoption of
a stock option plan.  In addition,  each of Messrs  Murphy and Hynes  provided a
release to the Company.

      Ms. Ellen Harmon became Vice  President,  Secretary and General Counsel of
the Company  pursuant to a one year  employment  agreement  on February 6, 2006,
which will be  automatically  extended for  successive  one-year  periods unless
earlier  terminated  pursuant to its terms. The agreement provides for an annual
salary of no less than  $260,000;  25,000  options to  purchase  Company  common
stock;  and an annual bonus to be awarded at the Company's sole  discretion.  In
the event that either (i) the  agreement is terminated by the Company other than
with  cause,  or  (ii)  Ms.  Harmon  elects  termination  following  a  material
diminution in her position, she will receive a payment of one year's base salary
at the base salary in effect at the time of termination.

COMPENSATION  COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION.  Messrs.  Davidow,
Goldsmith  and Olshan each served as a member of the  Compensation  Committee of
the Board  during the fiscal  year ended  December  31,  2005.  Mr.  Olshan is a
retired partner of Olshan

103

Grundman  Frome  Rosenzweig    Wolosky LLP  ("OGFR W")  and retains the title of
Counsel.  The Company has retained  OGFR W as its outside  general counsel since
January  1991.  The fees paid such firm by the  Company do not exceed 5% of such
firm's gross revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY  OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN  BENEFICIAL  OWNERS AND  MANAGEMENT AND
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

      The following  table sets forth  information  concerning  ownership of the
Common Stock of WHX outstanding at November 3, 2006, by (i) each person known by
the Company to be the  beneficial  owner of more than five percent of its Common
Stock,  (ii) each  director,  (iii) each of the executive  officers named in the
summary  compensation table and (iv) all directors and executive officers of the
Company as a group.

                                                                            SHARES
                                                                          BENEFICIALLY            PERCENTAGE
NAME AND ADDRESS OF BENEFICIAL OWNER                                        OWNED(1)              OF CLASS(1)
- ------------------------------------                                        --------              -----------
Steel Partners II, L.P.(2).....................................             5,029,793                 50.3%
590 Madison Avenue
New York, New York  10022

Praesidium Investment Management Company, LLC (3)..............               726,541                 7.27%
747 Third Avenue
New York, New York  10017

GAMCO Investors, Inc...........................................               620,270                 6.20%
One Corporate Center
Rye, New York  10580-1435

Warren Lichtenstein (2)........................................             5,029,793                 50.3%

Louis Klein Jr.................................................                 2,000                    *

Garen W. Smith(4)..............................................                   285                    *

Joshua Schechter...............................................                     0                    0

John Quicke....................................................                     0                    0

Glen M. Kassan.................................................                     0                    0

Jack L. Howard.................................................                     0                    0

Daniel P. Murphy...............................................                     0                    0

Robert K. Hynes................................................                     0                    0

Neale X. Trangucci.............................................                     0                    0

Stewart E. Tabin...............................................                     0                    0

Neil Arnold....................................................                     0                    0

All Directors and Executive Officers as a Group
(12 persons) ..................................................             5,032,078                 50.3%

- ----------
* less than 1%

104

(1) Based  upon  shares of  Common  Stock  outstanding  at  November  3, 2006 of
10,000,485 shares.

(2) Based upon  Amendment  No. 2 to  Schedule  13D filed by Steel on October 31,
2005, Steel  beneficially owns 5,029,793 shares of Common Stock. Steel Partners,
L.L.C.  ("Steel  L.L.C.")  as the general  partner  for Steel,  may be deemed to
beneficially own the shares of Common Stock owned by Steel. Mr. Lichtenstein, as
the sole executive officer and managing member of Steel L.L.C., may be deemed to
beneficially own the shares of Common Stock owned by Steel. Mr. Lichtenstein has
sole voting and dispositive power with respect to the 5,029,793 shares of Common
Stock  owned by Steel by virtue of his  authority  to vote and  dispose  of such
shares. Mr. Lichtenstein  disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares of Common
Stock owned by Steel except to the extent of his pecuniary interest therein.

(3) Based on a Schedule 13G filed by Praesidium  Investment  Management Company,
LLC  ("Praesidium") on November 15, 2005,  Praesidium  beneficially owns 726,541
shares of Common Stock.

(4) Based on a Schedule 13G filed by GAMCO Investors,  Inc. on November 2, 2006,
GAMCO beneficially owns 620,270 shares of Common Stock.

(5) Includes 138 shares of Common Stock  issuable upon his exercise of a warrant
within 60 days hereof.

Equity Compensation Plan Summary

      The  following  table sets  forth  information  as of  December  31,  2005
regarding the number of shares of Common Stock issued and available for issuance
under the Company's existing equity compensation plans:

                                                                                    Number of securities
                                                                                  remaining available for
                                                                                    future issuance under
                           Number of securities to be       Weighted-average      equity compensation plans
                            issued upon exercise of        exercise price of        (excluding securities
                             outstanding options,         outstanding options,            reflected
       Plan category          warrants and rights         warrants and rights          in column (a))
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                       (a)                       (b)                        (c)

Warrants                             752,688                    11.20

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

      Warren G. Lichtenstein,  Chairman of the Board of the Company, is also the
sole executive officer and managing member of Steel L.L.C.,  the general partner
of Steel. Mr. Lichtenstein is also the President,  Chief Executive Officer and a
Director of SPL, a management  and advisory  company  that  provides  management
services  to Steel  and its  affiliates.  Steel  owns  5,029,793  shares  of the
Company's  Common  Stock.  In  addition,  Glen M.  Kassan  (Director  and  Chief
Executive  Officer of WHX),  John Quicke  (Director and Vice  President of WHX),
Jack L. Howard (Director) and Joshua Schechter (Director) are employees of Steel
Partners, Ltd., an affiliate of Steel. Mr. Kassan also receives an annual salary
of $600,000.

      Marvin L.  Olshan,  a director  of the  Company  through  July 2005,  is a
retired partner of Olshan Grundman Frome Rosenzweig   Wolosky LLP ("OGFR W") who
retains the title Of Counsel.  The  Company has  retained  OGFR W as its outside
general  counsel since  January 1991.  The fees paid such firm by the Company do
not exceed 5% of such firm's gross  revenues for the fiscal year ended  December
31, 2005.

      Neil D. Arnold,  a director of the Company  through July 2005,  joined WPN
Corp.  as an officer in August 2001.  WPN Corp. is wholly owned by Ronald LaBow,
who is the former Chairman of the Board and was party to a management  agreement
with the Company until January 31, 2004.

      Garen W. Smith,  a director of the Company,  owns 49% of Abundance  Corp.,
which had a consulting  agreement with WHX (as it existed prior to the Effective
Date of the Chapter 11 Plan of  Reorganization)  that  terminated in February of
2005.  Abundance  Corp.  was paid  $200,000  per  annum  under  the terms of the
consulting agreement.

105

Each of Messrs.  Trangucci,  Tabin and Arnold  received a bonus payment of
$250,000.  In connection with his resignation on August 10, 2005, as required by
his  Employment  Agreement  following the Effective Date of the Plan, Mr. Arnold
received a severance payment of $900,000.  In connection with the resignation of
Messrs.  Trangucci and Tabin from their respective positions with the Company on
September 20, 2005, as required by each of their employment agreements following
the Effective Date of the Plan,  Messrs.  Trangucci and Tabin received severance
payments equal to $1.1 million and $1.0 million, respectively.

      Pursuant  to the  Management  Agreement  with  WPN,  which  was  initially
approved  by a  majority  of  the  Company's  disinterested  directors  and  was
terminated  on January  31,  2004,  WPN  provided  the Company  with  financial,
management,  advisory,  and consulting services,  subject to the supervision and
control of the disinterested  directors.  Messrs.  Trangucci,  Tabin, and Arnold
were officers of WPN until January 2004.  The Company  believed that the cost of
obtaining the type and quality of services  rendered by WPN under the Management
Agreement  was no less  favorable  than the cost at which the Company could have
obtained such services from unaffiliated entities.

      As previously  described,  pursuant to the Management  Agreement with WPN,
WPN provided financial, and management,  advisory and consulting services to the
Company,  including the  management of the assets of the WHX Pension Plan Trust.
On February 1, 2004,  WPN entered into an Investment  Consulting  Agreement with
the Company on behalf of the WHX Pension Plan Trust  pursuant to which WPN Corp.
would continue to manage the assets of the WHX Pension Plan Trust. Ronald LaBow,
the former Chairman of the Board of the Company,  is the sole stockholder and an
officer and director of WPN Corp.  Under the Agreement,  WPN Corp. is paid .525%
per year of the amount of the assets  under  management.  The WHX  Pension  Plan
Trust  Agreement was  negotiated by a board  committee  composed of  independent
directors,   which  committee   recommended  the  approval  of  such  Investment
Consulting Agreement to the full board, which approved such agreement.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

FEES

      PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, or "PwC," served as our independent registered
public  accounting  firm,  or  "independent  auditor" for the fiscal years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2005. PwC's fees and expenses for services  rendered to us
for the  past  two  fiscal  years  are set  forth in the  table  below.  We have
determined that the provision of these services is compatible  with  maintaining
the independence of our independent  auditors.  The aggregate fees billed by PwC
were as follows:

Fees:                                                   2005             2004
                                                    ------------    ------------

   Audit                                            $  1,749,529    $  2,634,722
   Audit-related                                              --         218,850
   Tax                                                    58,608          95,900
   Other                                                  23,522              --
                                                    ------------    ------------
              Total                                 $  1,831,659    $  2,949,472
                                                    ============    ============

      Audit fees were for services in connection with the audit of the financial
statements  included  in our  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K and  reviews  of the
financial   statements   included  in  our  Quarterly   Reports  on  Form  10-Q.
Audit-related  fees were for services in connection  with employee  benefit plan
audits.  Tax fees related to tax  compliance,  preparation  of tax returns,  tax
planning and tax assistance for international service employees.  All other fees
related to bankruptcy case administration.

POLICY ON PRE-APPROVED AUDIT SERVICES

      WHX's Audit Committee has established pre-approval policies and procedures
that govern the  engagement  of PwC and the services  provided by PwC to us. The
policies and procedures are detailed as to the particular services.  WHX's Audit
Committee  is  informed  of the  services  provided  to us by PwC.  All fees and
expenses for services  rendered by PwC in 2004 and 2005 were pre-approved by our
Audit Committee.

106

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

         (a) 3.   EXHIBITS

                  2.1      First Amended Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization of
                           the Company, dated June 8, 2005 (incorporated by
                           reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's Form 8-K
                           filed July 28, 2005).

                  2.2      Third Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization of
                           Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation, dated May 19,
                           2003 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to
                           Wheeling-Pittsburgh Corporation's Registration
                           Statement on Form 10 filed May 30, 2003).

                 *3.1      Amended and Restated  Certificate of Incorporation of
                           WHX.

                 *3.2      Amended and Restated By Laws of WHX.

                  4.1      Loan and Security Agreement by and among Handy  
                           Harman, certain of its affiliates and Congress
                           Financial Corporation, dated March 31, 2004
                           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the
                           Company's Form 10-K filed April 14, 2004).

                  4.2      Consent and Amendment No. 1 to Loan and Security
                           Agreement by and among Handy   Harman, certain of its
                           affiliates and Congress Financial Corporation, dated
                           as of August 31, 2004 (incorporated by reference to
                           Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Form 10-Q filed November
                           15, 2004).

                  4.3      Amendment No. 2 to Loan and Security Agreement by and
                           among Handy   Harman, certain of its affiliates and
                           Congress Financial Corporation, dated as of October
                           29, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to
                           the Company's Form 10-Q filed November 15, 2004).

                 *4.4      Amendment No. 3 to Loan and Security Agreement by and
                           among Handy   Harman,  certain of its  affiliates and
                           Congress Financial Corporation,  dated as of December
                           29, 2004.

                 *4.5      Amendment No. 4 to Loan and Security Agreement by and
                           among Handy   Harman,  certain of its  affiliates and
                           Wachovia  Bank,  National  Association,   a  national
                           banking association,  successor by merger to Congress
                           Financial Corporation, dated as of May 20, 2005.

                 *4.6      Amendment No. 5 to Loan and Security Agreement by and
                           among Handy   Harman,  certain of its  affiliates and
                           Wachovia  Bank,  National  Association,   a  national
                           banking association,  successor by merger to Congress
                           Financial Corporation, dated as of September 8, 2005.

                 *4.7      Amendment  No.  6 and  Waiver  to Loan  and  Security
                           Agreement by and among Handy   Harman, certain of its
                           affiliates and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a
                           national banking association,  successor by merger to
                           Congress Financial Corporation,  dated as of December
                           29, 2005.

107

*4.8      Consent and Amendment No. 7 to Loan and Security
                           Agreement by and among Handy   Harman, certain of its
                           affiliates and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a
                           national banking association, successor by merger to
                           Congress Financial Corporation, dated as of January
                           24, 2006.

                  4.9      Amendment No. 8 to Loan and Security Agreement by and
                           among Handy   Harman, certain of its affiliates and
                           Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national
                           banking association, successor by merger to Congress
                           Financial Corporation, dated as of March 31, 2006
                           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
                           Company's Form 8-K filed April 6, 2006).

                  4.10     Amendment No. 9 to the Loan and Security Agreement by
                           and among Handy   Harman, certain of its affiliates
                           and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national
                           banking association, successor by merger to Congress
                           Financial Corporation, dated as of July 18, 2006
                           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the
                           Company's Form 8-K filed July 24, 2006).

                  4.11     Amendment No. 10 to the Loan and Security Agreement
                           by and among Handy   Harman, certain of its
                           affiliates and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a
                           national banking association, successor by merger to
                           Congress Financial Corporation, dated as of October
                           30, 2006 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1
                           to the Company's Form 8-K filed November 03, 2006).

                  4.12     Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Other
                           Rights and Qualifications of Series A Preferred Stock
                           of WHX CS Corp. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                           4.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filed November 1,
                           2005).

                  4.13     Loan and Security Agreement by and among Handy  
                           Harman, certain of its affiliates and Ableco Finance
                           LLC, dated March 31, 2004 (incorporated by reference
                           to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Form 10-K filed April
                           14, 2004).

                  4.14     Loan and Security Agreement Amendment by and among
                           Handy   Harman, certain of its affiliates and
                           Canpartners Investments IV, LLC, dated as of October
                           29, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to
                           the Company's Form 10-Q filed November 15, 2004).

                 *4.15     Amendment No. 2 to Loan and Security Agreement by and
                           among Handy   Harman,  certain of its  affiliates and
                           Canpartners Investments IV, LLC, dated as of December
                           29, 2004.

108

*4.16     Amendment  No.  3 and  Waiver  to Loan  and  Security
                           Agreement by and among Handy   Harman, certain of its
                           affiliates and Steel Partners II, L.P.,  successor by
                           assignment  from  Canpartners  Investments  IV,  LLC,
                           dated as of December 29, 2005.

                 *4.17     Consent  and  Amendment  No. 4 to Loan  and  Security
                           Agreement by and among Handy   Harman, certain of its
                           affiliates and Steel Partners II, L.P.,  successor by
                           assignment  from  Canpartners  Investments  IV,  LLC,
                           dated as of January 24, 2006.

                  4.18     Amendment No. 5 to Loan and Security Agreement by and
                           among Handy   Harman,  certain of its  affiliates and
                           Steel Partners II, L.P., successor by assignment from
                           Canpartners  Investments  IV, LLC,  dated as of March
                           31, 2006 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to
                           the Company's Form 8-K filed April 6, 2006).

                  4.19     Amendment No. 6 to the Loan and Security Agreement by
                           and among Handy   Harman,  certain of its  affiliates
                           and Steel Partners II, L.P.,  successor by assignment
                           from  Canpartners  Investments  IV, LLC,  dated as of
                           July 18, 2006  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                           99.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed July 24, 2006).

                  4.20     Amendment No, 7 to the Loan and Security Agreement by
                           and Among Handy   Harman, certain of its affiliates
                           and Steel Partners II, L.P., successor by assignment
                           from Carpenters Investments IV, LLC, dated as of
                           October 30, 2006 (incorporated by reference to
                           Exhibit 99.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed November
                           3, 2006).

                 10.1      Settlement and Release Agreement by and among
                           Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation ("WPSC") and
                           Wheeling-Pittsburgh Corporation ("WPC"), the Company
                           and certain affiliates of WPSC, WPC and the Company
                           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the
                           Company's Form 8-K filed May 30, 2001).

                 10.2      Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by and
                           among WHX, H H and Robert K. Hynes, dated as of March
                           4, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to
                           the Company's Form 8-K filed March 8, 2005).

                 10.3      Employment Agreement by and between H H and Daniel P.
                           Murphy, effective February 11, 2004 (incorporated by
                           reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 10-Q
                           filed November 15, 2004).

                *10.4      Warrant  Agreement  by and  between  the  Company and
                           Equiserve Trust Company,  N.A.,  dated as of July 29,
                           2005.

                                      109

10.5      Acknowledgement and Release dated November 14, 2005,
                           by and among WHX, H H and Robert K. Hynes
                           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
                           Company's Form 8-K filed April 6, 2006).

                 10.6      Acknowledgement  and Release dated November 10, 2005,
                           by  and   between   H H   and  Daniel  P.  Murphy
                           (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.1 to the
                           Company's Form 8-K filed April 6, 2006).

                *10.7      Employment  Agreement by and among WHX, H H and Ellen
                           T. Harmon, dated as of February 6, 2006.

                 10.8      Stock Purchase  Agreement by and between WHX CS Corp.
                           and Steel  Partners II, L.P.,  dated October 26, 2005
                           (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.1 to the
                           Company's Form 8-K filed November 1, 2005).

                *10.9      Supplemental  Executive  Retirement  Plan (As Amended
                           and Restated as of January 1, 1998).

                *10.10     Agreement by and among the Pension Benefit Guaranty
                           Corporation, WHX Corporation, Wheeling-Pittsburgh
                           Corporation, Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation
                           and the United Steel Workers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC,
                           dated as of July 31, 2003.

                *10.11     2006 Bonus Plan of the Company.

                 14.1      Code of Ethics of WHX Corporation (incorporated by
                           reference to Exhibit 14.1 to the Company's Form 10-K
                           filed April 14, 2004).

                *21.1      Subsidiaries of Registrant.

                *31.1      Certification by Principal Executive Officer pursuant
                           to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

                *31.2      Certification by Principal Financial Officer pursuant
                           to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

                *32        Certification by Principal Executive Officer and
                           Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906
                           of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

(b) Financial Statements and Schedules:

      1. Audited Financial Statements of WHX Corporation (Parent Only).

      2. Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves

* - filed herewith.

110

SIGNATURES

      Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on December 22, 2006.

                                              WHX CORPORATION

By: /s/ Glen M. Kassan
                                                  ------------------------------
                                                  Name:  Glen M. Kassan
                                                  Title: Chief Executive Officer

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

      WHX  Corporation  and each of the  undersigned  do hereby  appoint Glen M.
Kassan  and Robert K.  Hynes,  and each of them  severally,  its or his true and
lawful  attorney to execute on behalf of WHX Corporation and the undersigned any
and all  amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and to file the same with
all exhibits  thereto and other  documents  in  connection  therewith,  with the
Securities and Exchange Commission;  each of such attorneys shall have the power
to act hereunder with or without the other.

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

By: /s/ Warren G. Lichtenstein                            December 22, 2006
    ---------------------------------                     Date
    Warren G. Lichtenstein, Chairman of the Board

By: /s/ Glen M. Kassan                                    December 22, 2006
    ---------------------------------                     Date
    Glen M. Kassan, Director and Chief Executive
    Officer (Principal Executive Officer)

By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes                                   December 22, 2006
    ---------------------------------                     Date
    Robert K. Hynes, Chief Financial Officer
    (Principal Accounting Officer)

By: /s/ Josh Schechter                                    December 22, 2006
    ---------------------------------                     Date
    Josh Schechter, Director

By: /s/ John J. Quicke                                    December 22, 2006
    ---------------------------------                     Date
    John J. Quicke, Director

By: /s/ Louis Klein Jr.                                   December 22, 2006
    ---------------------------------                     Date
    Louis Klein Jr., Director

By: /s/ Jack L. Howard                                    December 22, 2006
    ---------------------------------                     Date
    Jack L. Howard, Director

By: /s/ Daniel P. Murphy, Jr.                             December 22, 2006
    ---------------------------------                     Date
    Daniel P. Murphy, Jr., Director

By: /s/ Garen W. Smith                                    December 22, 2006
    ---------------------------------                     Date
    Garen W. Smith, Director

111

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON FINANCIAL
                               STATEMENT SCHEDULES

To the Board of Directors and
Stockholders of WHX Corporation:

Our audits of the consolidated  financial  statements  referred to in our report
dated December 14, 2006 appearing in the 2005 Annual Report to  Shareholders  of
WHX Corporation (which report and consolidated financial statements are included
in Item 8 of this Form 10-K) also included an audit of the  financial  statement
schedules  listed in Item 15(b) (1) and Item 15(b) (2) of this Form 10-K. In our
opinion,  the financial  statement  schedules  present  fairly,  in all material
respects,  the information  set forth therein when read in conjunction  with the
related consolidated financial statements.

As discussed in Note 1 to the WHX Corporation (Parent Only) financial statements
(the "WHX financial statements"), the 2003 consolidated financial statements and
the 2003 WHX financial statements have been restated.

      The accompanying WHX financial statements have been prepared assuming that
WHX Corporation  (the parent company)  ("WHX") will continue as a going concern.
As more fully described in Note 1 to the WHX financial statements, WHX had their
plan of reorganization (the "Plan") approved by the bankruptcy court and emerged
from bankruptcy effective,  July 29, 2005. The Plan resulted in the discharge of
all  pre-bankruptcy  claims against WHX, except for its liability to its pension
plan,  and  substantially  altered the rights and  interests of equity  security
holders.  WHX is a holding  company  with no bank  facility of its own and since
emerging from bankruptcy has not had access to dividends from its only operating
subsidiary,  Handy   Harman  ("H H").  Additionally,  H H has  also  experienced
certain liquidity issues, and its credit facility matures on March 31, 2007. WHX
has as its principal  source of cash certain limited  discrete  transactions and
has significant cash requirements  including the funding of the WHX Pension Plan
and  certain  other  administrative  costs.  If WHX does not  obtain  additional
liquidity,  it is likely that WHX will not have  sufficient  cash to continue to
operate  through 2007 and pay its  liabilities  as they become due in the normal
course of business.  These conditions raise  substantial doubt about the ability
of WHX to continue  as a going  concern.  Management's  plans in regard to these
matters are also  described in Note 1 to the WHX financial  statements.  The WHX
financial  statements  do not include any  adjustments  to reflect the  possible
future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts
and  classification  of  liabilities  that may result  from the  outcome of this
uncertainty.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
December 14, 2006

F-1

WHX CORPORATION (PARENT ONLY)
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

                                                              Year Ended December 31,
                                                    ------------------------------------------
                                                       2005            2004            2003
                                                    ----------      ----------      ----------
                                                                                  (as Restated)
                                                                  (in thousands)

COST AND EXPENSES:
Pension expense (credit)                            $  (2,101)      $  (3,957)      $   5,114
Pension - Curtailment and special benefits               --              --            48,102
Administrative and general expense                     10,734          10,198          10,157
                                                    ---------       ---------       ---------
       Subtotal - expenses                              8,633           6,241          63,373
                                                    ---------       ---------       ---------

Interest expense                                        2,008          10,775          11,276
Interest Income - H H Subordinated Note                (3,084)         (2,264)           --
Chapter 11 and related reorganization expenses          9,454            --              --
Equity in after-tax losses of subsidiaries            (17,876)       (131,632)        (78,639)
Gain on early retirement of debt                         --              --             2,999
Gain on disposition of WPC                               --              --               534
Other income (expense) - net                              230           5,940          (2,369)
                                                    ---------       ---------       ---------
LOSS BEFORE TAXES                                     (34,657)       (140,444)       (152,124)
Tax provision (benefit)                                  --              --             7,800
Net loss                                              (34,657)       (140,444)       (159,924)
Add: Extinguishment of preferred stock                257,782
Less: Dividend requirement for preferred stock          3,561          19,424          19,424
                                                    ---------       ---------       ---------
Net income (loss) applicable to common stock        $ 219,564       $(159,868)      $(179,348)
                                                    =========       =========       =========

SEE NOTES TO PARENT ONLY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

F-2

WHX CORPORATION (PARENT ONLY)
BALANCE SHEETS                                                                   December 31,
                                                                            -----------------------
                                                                               2005         2004
                                                                            -----------------------
                    ASSETS                                                       (in thousands)

Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents                                                   $       6    $     458
Other current assets                                                              284        2,698
                                                                            ---------    ---------
    Total current assets                                                          290        3,156

Investment in and advances to subsidiaries - net                              (22,122)      12,566
Intangible pension asset                                                          586        1,953
Prepaid pension asset                                                            --           --
Subordinated Note - Handy   Harman                                             52,374       49,290
Deferred income taxes                                                            --           --
Deferred charges and other assets                                                  27          390
                                                                            ---------    ---------
                                                                            $  31,155    $  67,355
                                                                            =========    =========

         LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Current liabilities:
Accrued expenses                                                            $   5,042    $   5,482
Short-term debt                                                                  --         92,820
                                                                            ---------    ---------
    Total current liabilities                                                   5,042       98,302

Accrued pension liability                                                      16,216       18,786
Other post-employment benefits                                                   --            194
Additional minimum pension liability                                           65,601       47,002
                                                                            ---------    ---------
                                                                               86,859      164,284
                                                                            ---------    ---------
Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders' Equity:
Preferred stock - $.10 par value; authorized 5,000 and 10,000 shares;
  issued and outstanding  -0- shares and 5,223 shares, as of
  December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively                                       --            552
Common stock - $.01 par value; authorized 40,000
  and 60,000 shares; issued and outstanding:
  10,000 and 5,486 shares, as of
  December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively                                        100           55
Accumulated other comprehensive  loss                                         (57,426)     (36,611)
Additional paid-in capital                                                    394,308      556,206
Warrants                                                                        1,287         --
Unearned compensation - restricted stock awards                                  --            (33)
Accumulated deficit                                                          (393,973)    (617,098)
                                                                            ---------    ---------
                                                                              (55,704)     (96,929)
                                                                            ---------    ---------
                                                                            $  31,155    $  67,355
                                                                            =========    =========

SEE NOTES TO PARENT ONLY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

F-3

WHX CORPORATION (PARENT ONLY)
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                                                    Year Ended December 31,
                                                          ------------------------------------------
                                                             2005            2004            2003
                                                          ----------      ----------      ----------
                                                                                        (as Restated)
                                                                        (in thousands)

Cash Flows From Operating Activities

Net loss                                                  $ (34,657)      $(140,444)      $(159,924)
Non cash income and expenses
       Amortization of deferred financing fees                  192             992             951
        Income taxes                                           --              --             2,471
       Gain on WPSC note recovery                              --            (5,596)           --
       Equity in loss of subsidiaries                        17,876         131,632          78,639
       Interest accrued on H   H Subordinated Note           (3,084)         (2,263)           --
       Gain on disposition of WPC                              --              --              (534)
       Pension curtailment and special benefits                --              --            48,102
       Gain on early retirement of debt                        --              --            (2,999)
 Decrease/(increase) in working capital elements
       Receivables - including affiliated companies          15,770          57,301          76,165
       Other current                                          3,441          (6,194)         (9,277)
 Other items (net)                                               10           2,571             958
                                                          ---------       ---------       ---------

 Net cash (used)/provided by operating activities              (452)         37,999          34,552
                                                          ---------       ---------       ---------

 Cash Flows from Investing Activities
       Receipts from/(advances to) WPC                         --              --           (19,500)
       Dividend from affiliated companies                      --              --             2,713
       Handy   Harman - Subordinated Note                      --           (43,449)           --
       Proceeds from sale of WPSC note                         --             5,596
       Contribution to Handy   Harman                          --              --            (8,000)
                                                          ---------       ---------       ---------

 Net cash provided/(used) by investing activities              --           (37,853)        (24,787)
                                                          ---------       ---------       ---------

 Cash flows from financing activities
       Cash paid on extinguishment of debt                     --              --           (14,302)
       Due from Unimast                                        --              --             3,204
                                                          ---------       ---------       ---------
 Net cash used by financing activities                         --              --           (11,098)
                                                          ---------       ---------       ---------

 Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents              (452)            146          (1,333)

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period               458             312           1,645
                                                          ---------       ---------       ---------

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period               $       6       $     458       $     312
                                                          =========       =========       =========

SEE NOTES TO PARENT ONLY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

F-4

NOTES TO WHX PARENT ONLY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 - BACKGROUND

      BASIS OF PRESENTATION:

      The WHX Corporation (Parent Only) ("WHX") financial statements include the
accounts of all  subsidiary  companies  accounted for under the equity method of
accounting.  Certain information and footnote  disclosures  normally included in
financial  statements  prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles  ("GAAP")  have been  condensed  or  omitted.  These WHX parent  only
financial  statements  are prepared on the same basis of  accounting  as the WHX
consolidated  financial  statements,   except  that  the  WHX  subsidiaries  are
accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  For a complete description
of the  accounting  policies and other required GAAP  disclosures,  refer to the
Company's audited consolidated  financial statements for the year ended December
31, 2005 contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

      WHX is a holding  company that has been structured to invest in and manage
a diverse group of businesses.  Its primary subsidiary company is Handy   Harman
(H H),  a diversified  manufacturing  company  whose  strategic  business  units
encompass three  segments:  precious metal,  tubing,  and engineered  materials.
Other subsidiaries of WHX include unrestricted  investments in WHX Aviation, WHX
Metals,  WHX  CS,  and  Wheeling-Pittsburgh  Capital  Corporation.  These  other
subsidiaries  maintain certain investments on behalf of the parent company,  but
have no other operating  activity.  On December 31, 2003 Handy   Harman acquired
the outstanding common stock of Canfield Metal Coatings from WHX in exchange for
a  subordinated  note.  WHX  also  had  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary,   Wheeling
- -Pittsburgh  Corporation and its subsidiaries  (the "WPC Group") which filed for
bankruptcy  on November  16, 2000 and,  as a result of this  bankruptcy,  was no
longer  reported  as part of the WHX  consolidated  group  as of the  bankruptcy
filing  date  (See  Note  4 to  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of WHX
Corporation and it  subsidiaries in Item 8 of this Form 10-K (the  "consolidated
financial statements")).

      RESTATEMENT OF PREVIOUSLY ISSUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      As  described in Note 1b to the  consolidated  financial  statements,  WHX
Corporation and its consolidated  subsidiaries  (the "Company") has restated its
2003 and prior  year's  financial  statements  to  correct  its  accounting  for
goodwill  impairment,  certain tax  matters,  and other  corrections,  including
accounting  for derivative  instruments  and the related impact on inventory and
its  accounting  for  an  executive  life  insurance  program,  as  well  as its
presentation of investment  borrowings in the statement of cash flows.  With the
exception of certain tax matters, the items being restated represent adjustments
recorded in the financial statements of the WHX subsidiaries,  and are reflected
in the 2003 restated WHX financial  statements as corrections  to: (i) equity in
after-tax losses of subsidiaries on the statement of operations;  (ii) equity in
loss of  subsidiaries,  and investment  account  borrowings on the statements of
cash flow. See Note 1b for further details of the restatement.

      WHX  previously  consolidated  its  subsidiaries,  other  than H H and its
subsidiaries,  in these parent-only financial statements. Upon further review of
the  requirements  for  reporting  under  this  supplemental  schedule,  WHX has
concluded  that its previous  reporting  was incorrect and has restated the 2003
financial  statements to present the parent company on a stand-alone  basis with
all  subsidiary   activity   flowing  through  equity  in  after-tax  losses  of
subsidiaries   within  the  statement  of  operations  and  equity  in  loss  of
subsidiaries  in the  statement  of cash  flows.  In  addition,  the  previously
reported  Investment  in and  advances to  subsidiaries  -net as of December 31,
2003,  which does not appear in these  financial  statements,  has been restated
from $119,830 to $196,336 to include the net activity of all subsidiaries of WHX
for the year ended December 31, 2003 and prior years.

      LIQUIDITY:

      The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming WHX will
continue  as a going  concern.  WHX has  incurred  net losses of $34.7  million,
$140.4 million and $159.9  million for the years ended  December 31, 2005,  2004
and 2003,  respectively and had an accumulated  deficit of $394.0  million as of
December 31, 2005.

      In March 2005, WHX filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the
United States Bankruptcy Code. Following WHX's emergence from bankruptcy in July
2005, it continued to experience  liquidity issues. WHX is a holding company and
has as its sole source of cash flow distributions from its operating subsidiary,
H H, or other discrete transactions.  H H's bank credit facilities and term loan
effectively do not permit it to transfer any cash or other assets to WHX and are
collateralized  by  substantially  all of H H's  assets.  WHX has no bank credit
facility of its own. WHX's operating cash flow  requirements  consist of funding
the  supplemental  retirement  plan,  certain  employee-related  costs  and  the
bankruptcy-related  expenses,  all of which were paid by March 31,  2006.  On an

F-5

ongoing  basis,  WHX is required to meet the  funding  requirements  for the WHX
Pension Plan and pay other administrative costs.

      Since  emerging from  bankruptcy,  due to covenant  restrictions  in H H's
credit  facilities,  there have been no dividends  from H H to WHX, and the sole
source  of cash  flow  for WHX  has  consisted  of  partial  payment  of the H H
subordinated  debt to WHX of $9.0  million,  which  required the approval of the
banks  participating in the bank facility.  Subsequent to this  transaction,  in
2006, the remaining intercompany  subordinated debt balance of $44.2 million was
converted to equity.

      As of September 30, 2006, WHX had cash of  approximately  $0.7 million and
current liabilities of approximately $9.5 million. WHX also has significant 2006
cash  flow  obligations,   including  without  limitation  the  minimum  funding
requirement  for the WHX Pension  Plan,  which is estimated to be $20.6  million
($4.9  million was paid as of July 14, 2006 and $5.0  million was paid by H H in
October 2006) and estimated other administrative costs for 2006 of approximately
$3.8 million.  The Pension Benefit  Guaranty  Corporation  ("PBGC") filed a lien
against the assets of H H to secure,  among other things, the funding deficiency
existing as a result of WHX's failure to make required  contributions to the WHX
Pension Plan, and on October 20, 2006 the PBGC entered into a lien subordination
agreement  with H H's  revolving  credit  facility  lender.  This  subordination
agreement provides that the subordination provisions shall not apply to any debt
incurred after December 31, 2006. As previously indicated,  there are no current
sources of cash  available to WHX to satisfy these  obligations,  other than the
sale of its subsidiary's equity investment  (estimated market value at September
30, 2006 of $5.0 million),  possible insurance proceeds from current litigation,
or the sale of H H (which is not currently contemplated). If WHX does not obtain
additional  liquidity,  it is likely that WHX will not have  sufficient  cash to
continue to operate through the end of 2007.

      Additional  information  regarding  liquidity  issues  at WHX  and H H are
described  in  Note  1a to the  consolidated  financial  statements.  The  above
conditions  raise  substantial  doubt  about the ability of WHX to continue as a
going  concern.  These  financial  statements do not include any  adjustments to
reflect the possible future effects on the  recoverability and classification of
assets or amounts and  classification  of  liabilities  that may result from the
outcome of this uncertainty

NOTE 2 - INVESTMENT IN AND ADVANCES TO SUBSIDIARIES - NET

The following table details the investments in associated  companies,  accounted
for under the equity method of accounting.

                                                            December 31
                                                        2005           2004
                                                     ---------      ---------
                                                           (in thousands)

Investment in:

Handy   Harman                                       $(23,723)      $ (4,590)
WHX Aviation                                               (5)           145
WHX CS                                                    (16)          --
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Capital Corporation                 1,625         17,011
WHX Metals                                                 (3)          --
                                                     --------       --------

Investment in and advances to subsidiaries - net     $(22,122)      $ 12,566
                                                     ========       ========

The H H loan agreements contain provisions restricting cash payments to WHX. The
agreements  allow the payment of management  fees,  income taxes pursuant to tax
sharing  agreements,  and certain other expenses.  In addition  dividends may be
paid under certain  conditions.  At December 31, 2005 the net liabilities of H H
amounted to $33.5 million.  Under these  circumstances,  the H H loan agreements
prohibit the payment of  dividends  to WHX. On March 31, 2004,  H H obtained new
financing  agreements  to  replace  its  existing  credit  facilities.  The  new
financing  agreements  included a revolving  credit facility and two term loans.
Concurrent with the new financing agreements, WHX loaned $43.5 million to H H to
repay, in part, the existing credit facilities (the "Subordinated  Note").  Such
loan was  subordinated  to the new financing  agreements.  On March 31, 2006 H H
entered into an amendment  to one of the term loans which,  among other  things,
provided for the payment of $9.0 million from H H towards the outstanding  balance
of the Subordinated Note. Subsequent to this transaction,  the remaining balance
of the Subordinated Note was converted to equity.

F-6

NOTE 3 - OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

                                                           Year Ended December 31,
                                                 ------------------------------------------
                                                    2005            2004            2003
                                                 ----------      ----------      ----------
                                                                               (as Restated)
                                                               (in thousands)

Interest and investment income/(loss)              $  --           $   310         $   120
Gain on WPSC Note Recovery                            --             5,596            --
WPN management fee                                    --              --            (2,500)
Other, net                                             230              34              11
                                                   -------         -------         -------
                                                   $   230         $ 5,940         $(2,369)
                                                   =======         =======         =======

NOTE 4 - EQUITY IN EARNINGS (LOSS) OF SUBSIDIARIES

                                                           Year Ended December 31,
                                                 ------------------------------------------
                                                    2005            2004            2003
                                                 ----------      ----------      ----------
                                                                               (as Restated)
                                                               (in thousands)

Handy   Harman                                   $ (18,095)      $(134,727)      $ (87,533)
CMCC (a)                                              --              --             2,453
WHX Aviation                                             9           1,256            (986)
WHX CS                                                 (16)           --              --
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Capital Corporation                226           1,839           5,234
WHX Metals                                            --              --             2,193
                                                 ---------       ---------       ---------
                                                 $ (17,876)      $(131,632)      $ (78,639)
                                                 =========       =========       =========

(a) Effective December 31, 2004 CMCC is a subsidiary of Handy   Harman.

F-7

WHX Corporation
                                   Schedule II -Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves

                                                           Balance at          Charged to          Additions/          Balance at
                                                           Beginning           Costs and          (Deductions)           End of
Description                                                of Period            Expenses            Describe           of Period
- ----------------------------------------------------    ----------------    ----------------    ----------------    ----------------
Year ended December 31, 2005

Valuation allowance on foreign NOL's                           --                                                         --
Valuation allowance on federal NOL's                         40,594              12,360             (10,849)(1)          42,105
Valuation allowance on other net deferred tax assets         39,169                (216)              6,964 (2)          45,917
                                                             ------              ------               -----              ------
                                                             79,763              12,144              (3,885)             88,022
                                                             ------              ------               -----              ------
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts                               1,238                 467                (618)              1,087
                                                             ------              ------               -----              ------
Total                                                        81,001              12,611              (4,503)             89,109
                                                             ======              ======               =====              ======

Year ended December 31, 2004

Valuation allowance on foreign NOL's                          5,810                --                (5,810)(3)           --
Valuation allowance on federal NOL's                         31,694               8,900                --                40,594
Valuation allowance on other net deferred tax assets         16,689              15,100               7,380 (2)          39,169
                                                             ------              ------               -----              ------
                                                             54,193              24,000               1,570              79,763
                                                             ------              ------               -----              ------
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts                               1,003                 249                 (14)              1,238
                                                             ------              ------               -----              ------
Total                                                        55,196              24,249               1,556              81,001
                                                             ======              ======               =====              ======

Year ended December 31, 2003 (as Restated)

Deducted from asset accounts:

Valuation allowance on foreign NOL's                          5,350                 460                --                 5,810
Valuation allowance on federal NOL's                           --                31,694                --                31,694
Valuation allowance on other net deferred tax assets           --                13,541               3,148 (2)          16,689
                                                             ------              ------               -----              ------
                                                              5,350              45,695               3,148              54,193
                                                             ------              ------               -----              ------
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts                               2,307                 621              (1,925)              1,003
                                                             ------              ------               -----              ------
Total                                                         7,657              46,316               1,223              55,196
                                                             ======              ======               =====              ======

(1)   Reduction of NOLs (and related valuation allowance) due to bankruptcy reorganization on July 29, 2005.
(2)   Increase in valuation allowance relates to deferred tax asset for miniumum pension liabilities recorded in other comprehensive
      income.
(3)   Reduction of NOLs (and related valuation allowance) due to expiration of carryforward period.

F-8

<EX-3.1>
 2
 ex31to10k06447_12312004.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 3.1

                              AMENDED AND RESTATED

                          CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION

                                       OF

                                 WHX CORPORATION
          ------------------------------------------------------------

          WHX CORPORATION, a corporation organized and existing under the laws
of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), hereby certifies as follows:

     1.   The name of the Corporation is WHX Corporation.

     2.   The date of the filing of the Corporation's original Certificate of
          Incorporation with the Secretary of State was May 18, 1994.

     3.   This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which amends
          and restates the Certificate of Incorporation, is being filed in
          connection with the Corporation's plan of reorganization, dated June
          8, 2005 (as such plan may be amended, supplemented, or modified from
          time to time (the "Chapter 11 Plan"), and was duly adopted in
          accordance with the provisions of sections 242, 245, and 303 of the
          General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. The United States
          Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York confirmed the
          Chapter 11 Plan by an order entered July 21, 2005.

     4.   The text of the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation is hereby
          restated to read as herein set forth in full:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

          FIRST: The name of the corporation (hereinafter sometimes called the
"Corporation") is WHX Corporation.

          SECOND: The address, including street, number, city and county of the
registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware is 615 South
DuPont Highway, Dover, Delaware 19901, County of Kent; and the name of the
registered agent of the Corporation in the State of Delaware at such address is
National Corporate Research, Ltd.

          THIRD: The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act
or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.

          FOURTH: The total number of shares of stock which the Corporation
shall have authority to issue is 45,000,000 shares, consisting of (i) 5,000,000
shares of Preferred Stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Preferred Stock"), and
(ii) 40,000,000 shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Common
Stock").

The Corporation shall not issue any nonvoting equity securities to the
extent prohibited by section 1123 of title 11 of the United States Code (the
"Bankruptcy Code") as in effect on the effective date of the Chapter 11 Plan;
provided, however, that this paragraph (a) will have no further force and effect
beyond that required under section 1123 of the Bankruptcy Code, (b) will have
such force and effect, if any, only for so long as such section of the
Bankruptcy Code is in effect and applicable to the Corporation, and (c) in all
events may be amended or eliminated in accordance with such applicable law as
from time to time may be in effect.

          The following is a statement of the powers, designations, preferences,
privileges, and relative rights in respect to each class of capital stock of the
Corporation.

          A.   PREFERRED STOCK. The Board of Directors is expressly authorized
to provide for the issuance of all or any shares of the Preferred Stock, in one
or more series, and to fix for each such series such voting powers, full or
limited, or no voting powers, and such designations, preferences and relative,
participating, optional or other special rights and such qualifications,
limitations or restrictions thereof as shall be stated and expressed in the
resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the
issue of such series (a "Preferred Stock Designation") and as may be permitted
by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. The number of
authorized shares of Preferred Stock may be increased (but not above the number
of authorized shares of the class) or decreased (but not below the number of
shares thereof then outstanding). Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, the resolutions providing for issuance of any series of Preferred
Stock may provide that such series shall be superior or rank equally or junior
to the Preferred Stock of any other series to the extent permitted by law. No
vote of the holders of the Preferred Stock or Common Stock shall be required in
connection with the designation or the issuance of any shares of any series of
any Preferred Stock authorized by and complying with the conditions herein, the
right to have such vote being expressly waived by all present and future holders
of the capital stock of the Corporation.

          B.   COMMON STOCK.

               (1)  VOTING. Except as otherwise required by law or as otherwise
                    provided in any Preferred Stock Designation, the holders of
                    the Common Stock shall exclusively possess all voting power
                    and each share of Common Stock shall have one vote.

               (2)  DIVIDENDS. The holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to
                    receive dividends, when, as and if declared by the Board of
                    Directors out of funds legally available for such purpose
                    and subject to any preferential dividend rights of any then
                    outstanding Preferred Stock.

               (3)  LIQUIDATION, DISSOLUTION, WINDING UP. After distribution in
                    full of the preferential amount, if any (fixed in accordance
                    with the provisions of paragraph A of this Article FOURTH),
                    to be distributed to the holders of Preferred Stock in the
                    event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, distribution

2

or sale of assets, dissolution or winding-up of the
                    Corporation, the holders of the Common Stock shall be
                    entitled to receive all the remaining assets of the
                    Corporation, tangible and intangible, of whatever kind
                    available for distribution to stockholders ratably in
                    proportion to the number of shares of Common Stock held by
                    them respectively.

          FIFTH: Transfer Restrictions.

          A.   5% Ownership Limit.

               (1)  Any attempted Transfer of Corporation Securities prior to
                    the Restriction Release Date, or any attempted Transfer of
                    Corporation Securities pursuant to an agreement entered into
                    prior to the Restriction Release Date, will be prohibited
                    and void ab initio if either (A) the transferor is a
                    Five-Percent Stockholder or (B) as a result of such
                    Transfer, either (1) any Person or group of Persons would
                    become a Five-Percent Stockholder or (2) the Percentage
                    Stock Ownership in the Corporation of any Five-Percent
                    Stockholder would be increased; PROVIDED that this paragraph
                    A(1) will not apply to, nor will any other provision in this
                    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation prohibit,
                    restrict or limit in any way, the issuance of Corporation
                    Securities by the Corporation in accordance with the Chapter
                    11 Plan.

               (2)  Paragraph A(1) of this Article FIFTH will not apply to a 5%
                    Transaction if:

                    (a)  the transferor or the transferee obtains the prior
                         written approval of the Board of Directors; or

                    (b)  in the case of a 5% Transaction by any holder of
                         Corporation Securities, prior to the 5% Transaction the
                         Board of Directors, upon written request of the
                         transferor or transferee, determines that such Transfer
                         is a 5% Transaction which, together with any 5%
                         Transactions consummated by the holders of Corporation
                         Securities during the Testing Period, represent
                         aggregate 5% Transactions involving Transfers of less
                         than 45% of the Corporation Securities issued and
                         outstanding at the time of Transfer.

As a condition to granting any approval under clause (a) of this paragraph A(2)
or in connection with making any determination under clause (b) of this
paragraph A(2), the Board may, in its discretion, require (at the expense of the
transferor and/or transferee) an opinion of counsel selected by the Board that
the Transfer will not result in the application of any Section 382 limitation on
the use of the Tax Benefits.

                                       3

(3)  Each certificate representing Corporation Securities issued
                    after the effectiveness of this Article FIFTH and prior to
                    the Restriction Release Date will contain the legend that
                    refers to the restrictions set forth in this Article FIFTH
                    as follows:

          "THE  TRANSFER  OF  THE  SECURITIES  REPRESENTED  HEREBY  IS
          SUBJECT TO  RESTRICTIONS  PURSUANT  TO ARTICLE  FIFTH OF THE
          AMENDED AND RESTATED  CERTIFICATE  OF  INCORPORATION  OF WHX
          CORPORATION."

          B.   TREATMENT OF EXCESS SECURITIES.

               (1)  No employee or agent of the Corporation will record any
                    Prohibited Transfer, and the Purported Transferee in any
                    Prohibited Transfer will not be recognized as a stockholder
                    of the Corporation for any purpose whatsoever in respect of
                    the Excess Securities. The Purported Transferee of such
                    Excess Securities will not be entitled with respect to such
                    Excess Securities to any rights of stockholders of the
                    Corporation, including without limitation the rights to vote
                    such Excess Securities and to receive dividends or
                    distributions, whether liquidating or otherwise, in respect
                    thereof, if any. If Excess Securities are subsequently
                    acquired in a Transfer that is not a Prohibited Transfer,
                    such Corporation Securities will cease to be Excess
                    Securities. Any attempted Transfer of Excess Securities not
                    in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph B will
                    also be a Prohibited Transfer.

                    (2) If the Board determines that an attempted Transfer of
                    Corporation Securities constitutes a Prohibited Transfer,
                    then, upon written demand by the Corporation, the Purported
                    Transferee will transfer or cause to be transferred any
                    certificate or other evidence of ownership of such Excess
                    Securities within the Purported Transferee's possession or
                    control, together with any Prohibited Distributions, to an
                    Agent. The Agent will thereupon sell as promptly as
                    practicable to a buyer or buyers, which may include the
                    Corporation, the Excess Securities transferred to it in one
                    or more arm's length transactions; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that
                    (A) the Agent will effect such sales only if and when it can
                    do so in transactions that do not constitute Prohibited
                    Transfers and (B) the Agent will effect such sales in an
                    orderly fashion and will not be required to effect any such
                    sale within any specific time frame if, in the Agent's
                    business judgment, such sale would disrupt the market for
                    the Corporation Securities or otherwise would adversely

4

affect the value of the Corporation Securities. If the
                    Purported Transferee has resold the Excess Securities before
                    receiving the Corporation's demand to surrender the Excess
                    Securities to the Agent, the Purported Transferee will be
                    deemed to have sold the Excess Securities for the Agent and
                    will be required to transfer to the Agent any Prohibited
                    Distributions and proceeds of such sale, except to the
                    extent that the Corporation grants written permission to the
                    Purported Transferee to retain a portion of such sales
                    proceeds not exceeding the amount that the Purported
                    Transferee would have received from the Agent pursuant to
                    paragraph B(3) of this Article FIFTH if the Agent rather
                    than the Purported Transferee had resold the Excess
                    Securities.

               (3)  Pending any sale by the Agent of Excess Securities in a
                    transaction that does not constitute a Prohibited Transfer,
                    the Agent will hold any Excess Securities as agent for, and
                    for the benefit of, the Purported Transferor, subject to the
                    Purported Transferee's claim for reimbursement of its
                    purchase price. Accordingly, with respect to any particular
                    Excess Securities, the Agent will apply any proceeds of a
                    sale by it of such Excess Securities, any dividends or
                    distributions received by it from the Corporation with
                    respect to such Excess Securities, any amounts received by
                    it from the Purported Transferee in respect of Prohibited
                    Distributions on such Excess Securities and, if the
                    Purported Transferee had previously resold such Excess
                    Securities, any amounts received by it from the Purported
                    Transferee in respect of such previous sale, as follows:

                    (a)  first, to pay costs and expenses incurred by the Agent
                         in connection with the Agent's duties specified herein;

                    (b)  second, to pay to the Purported Transferee up to the
                         lesser of (x) the amount paid by the Purported
                         Transferee for the Excess Securities and (y) the Fair
                         Market Value of the Excess Securities on the date of
                         the Prohibited Transfer thereof, as shall be determined
                         at the discretion of the Board; and

                    (c)  third, to pay any remaining amounts to the Purported
                         Transferor.

The recourse of any Purported Transferee in respect of any Prohibited Transfer
will be limited to the amount payable to the Purported Transferee pursuant to
paragraph (b) of the preceding sentence. In no event shall the proceeds of any
sale of Excess Securities pursuant to this Article FIFTH inure to the benefit of
the Corporation.

               (4)  If the Purported Transferee fails to surrender the Excess
                    Securities, Prohibited Distributions or the proceeds of a
                    sale of Excess Securities to the Agent within 30 days from
                    the date on which the Corporation makes a demand pursuant to
                    paragraph B(2) of this Article FIFTH, then the Corporation
                    will use its best efforts to enforce the provisions hereof,

5

including without limitation the institution of legal
                    proceedings to compel the surrender.

               (5)  The Corporation will make the demand described in paragraph
                    B(2) of this Article FIFTH within 30 days of the date on
                    which the Board determines that the attempted Transfer would
                    result in Excess Securities; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if the
                    Corporation makes such demand at a later date, the
                    provisions of this Article FIFTH will apply nonetheless.

          C.   BOARD DETERMINATIONS. The Board will have the sole power to make
determinations regarding compliance with this Article FIFTH and any matters
related thereto. The good faith determination of the Board on such matters will
be conclusive and binding for all purposes of this Article FIFTH. All
determinations, approvals or other actions by the Board pursuant to this Article
FIFTH will require the affirmative vote of a majority of the total number of
directors that the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.

          D.   DEFINITIONS. As used in this Article FIFTH, the following
capitalized terms have the following meanings when used herein in with initial
capital letters:

               (1)  "5% Transaction" means any Transfer or attempted Transfer of
                    Corporation Securities described in clause (A) or (B) of
                    paragraph A(1) of this Article FIFTH, subject to the proviso
                    of such paragraph A(1).

               (2)  "Agent" means an agent designated by the Board.

               (3)  "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

               (4)  "Corporation Securities" means (a) shares of Common Stock,
                    (b) shares of Preferred Stock (other than preferred stock
                    described in Section 1504(a)(4) of the Code or any successor
                    provision), (c) warrants, rights or options (including
                    without limitation options within the meaning of Treasury
                    Regulation ss. 1.382-4(d)(9) or any successor provision) to
                    purchase stock of the Corporation, and (d) any other
                    interest that would be treated as "stock" of the Corporation
                    pursuant to Treasury Regulation ss. 1.382-2T(f)(18) or any
                    successor provision.

               (5)  "Effective Date" means the latter of (i) the Effective Date
                    (as defined in the Chapter 11 Plan or (ii) the date of
                    filing this Amended and Restated Certificate of
                    Incorporation.

               (6)  "Excess Securities" means, with respect to any Prohibited
                    Transfer, the Corporation Securities that are the subject of
                    such Prohibited Transfer.

                                       6

(7)  "Fair Market Value " means, with respect to any Excess
                    Securities, the closing price per share of such Excess
                    Securities on the last trading day immediately preceding the
                    Prohibited Transfer of such Excess Securities. The "closing
                    price" for such purposes will be the last sale price,
                    regular way, or, in case no such sale takes place on the
                    relevant day, the average of the closing bid and asked
                    prices, regular way, in either case as reported in the
                    principal consolidated transaction reporting system with
                    respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on a
                    national securities exchange or, if the Excess Securities
                    are not listed or admitted to trading on any national
                    securities exchange, the last quoted sale price or, if not
                    so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices
                    as reported by the New York Stock Exchange or such other
                    exchange then in use, or, if on any such date the Excess
                    Securities are not quoted by any such organization, the
                    average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by
                    a professional market maker making a market in the Excess
                    Securities selected by the Board. If the Excess Securities
                    are not publicly held or not so listed or traded, or are not
                    the subject of available bid and asked quotes, "Fair Market
                    Value" will mean the fair value per Excess Share as
                    determined in good faith by the Board.

               (8)  "Five-Percent Stockholder" means a Person or group of
                    Persons that is identified as a "5-percent shareholder" of
                    the Corporation pursuant to Treasury Regulation ss.
                    1.382-2T(g); PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Agent will not
                    constitute a Five Percent Stockholder.

               (9)  "Percentage Stock Ownership" means percentage stock
                    ownership interest as determined in accordance with Treasury
                    Regulation ss.1.382-2T(g), (h), (j) and (k) or any successor
                    provisions.

               (10) "Person" means any individual, partnership, corporation,
                    limited liability company, association, joint venture, trust
                    or other entity or association, including without limitation
                    any governmental authority.

               (11) "Prohibited Distributions" means, with respect to any
                    Prohibited Transfer, any dividends or distributions that
                    were received by the Purported Transferee from the
                    Corporation with respect to the Excess Securities.

               (12) "Prohibited Transfer" means any purported Transfer of
                    Corporation Securities to the extent that such Transfer is
                    prohibited and/or void under this Article FIFTH.

                                       7

(13) "Purported Transferee" means, with respect to any Prohibited
                    Transfer, the intended transferee in such Prohibited
                    Transfer.

               (14) "Purported Transferor" means, with respect to any Prohibited
                    Transfer, the Person who attempted to Transfer Corporation
                    Securities in such Prohibited Transfer.

               (15) "Restriction Release Date" means the earliest of (a) the
                    tenth anniversary of the Effective Date, (b) the repeal,
                    amendment or modification of Section 382 in such a way as to
                    render the restrictions imposed by Section 382 no longer
                    applicable to the Corporation, (c) the beginning of a
                    taxable year of the Corporation in which no Tax Benefits are
                    available, (d) the determination by the Board that the
                    provisions of this Article FIFTH shall not apply, (e) a
                    determination by the Board or the Internal Revenue Service
                    that the Corporation is ineligible to use Section 382(l)(5)
                    of the Code permitting full use of the Tax Benefits existing
                    as of the Effective Date, and (f) an election by the
                    Corporation for Section 382(l)(5) of the Code not to apply.

               (16) "Section 382" means Section 382 of the Code or any successor
                    provision.

               (17) "Section 501(c)(3)" means Section 501(c)(3) of the Code or
                    any successor provision.

               (18) "Tax Benefits" means the net operating loss carryovers,
                    capital loss carryovers, general business credit carryovers,
                    alternative minimum tax credit carryovers and foreign tax
                    credit carryovers, as well as any loss or deduction
                    attributable to a "net unrealized built-in loss" within the
                    meaning of Section 382, of the Corporation or any direct or
                    indirect subsidiary thereof.

               (19) "Testing Period" means, with respect to any 5% Transaction,
                    the period ending on the date of consummation of such 5%
                    Transaction and beginning on the later of (a) the date three
                    years prior thereto and (b) the first day after the
                    Effective Date.

               (20) "Transfer" means any direct or indirect sale, transfer,
                    assignment, conveyance, pledge or other disposition, other
                    than a sale, transfer, assignment, conveyance, pledge or
                    other disposition to a wholly owned subsidiary of the
                    transferor or, if the transferor is wholly owned by a
                    Person, to a wholly owned subsidiary of such Person. Except
                    for purposes of paragraph D(1) of this Article FIFTH, a
                    Transfer shall not include the issuance or transfer of an
                    option (including without limitation an option within the
                    meaning of Treasury Regulation ss. 1.382-4(d)(9) or any
                    successor provision), unless at the time of such issuance or

8

transfer, the option is treated as exercised under Section
                    382(l)(3)(A) of the Code (applying the rules in Treasury
                    Regulation ss. 1.382-4(d)).

          SIXTH: A. NUMBER OF DIRECTORS. The initial Board of Directors on the
Effective Date shall be comprised of the following members: (1) Warren
Lichtenstein, (2) Josh Schechter, (3) John Quicke, (4) Glen Kassan, and (5) Jack
Howard. After the Effective Date and subject to the rights, if any, of the
holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under
specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to
time exclusively by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a
majority of the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if
there were no vacancies.

          B. REMOVAL. Subject to the rights of the holders of Preferred Stock,
and unless this Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provides, any director or
the entire Board of Directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause, and
the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the voting power of all the then
outstanding shares of voting stock, voting together as a single class shall be
required to effect such removal.

          SEVENTH: Whenever a compromise or arrangement is proposed between the
Corporation and its creditors or any class of them and/or between the
Corporation and its stockholders or any class of them, any court of equitable
jurisdiction within the State of Delaware may, on the application in a summary
way of the Corporation or of any creditor or stockholder thereof or on the
application of any receiver or receivers appointed for the Corporation under the
provisions of Section 291 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code or on the application
of trustees in dissolution under Section 279 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code,
order a meeting of the creditors or class of creditors, and/or the stockholders
or class of stockholders of the Corporation, as the case may be, to be summoned
in such manner as the said court directs. If a majority in number representing
three-fourths in value of the creditors or class of creditors, and/or of the
stockholders or class of stockholders of the Corporation, as the case may be,
agree to any compromise or arrangement and to any reorganization of the
Corporation, as the case may be, the said compromise or arrangement and the said
reorganization shall, if sanctioned by the court to which the said application
has been made, be binding on all the creditors or class of creditors, and/or on
all the stockholders or class of stockholders, of the Corporation, as the case
may be, and also on the Corporation.

          EIGHTH: For the management of the business and for the conduct of the
affairs of the Corporation, and in further definition, limitation and regulation
of the powers of the Corporation and of its directors and its stockholders or
any class thereof, as the case may be, it is further provided:

          A. The management of the business and the conduct of the affairs of
the Corporation, including the election of the Chairman of the Board of
Directors, if any, the President, the Treasurer, the Secretary, and other
principal officers of the Corporation, shall be vested in its Board of
Directors. The phrase "whole Board" and the phrase "total number of directors"
shall be deemed to have the same meaning, to wit, the total number of directors
which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies. No election of
directors need be by written ballot.

                                       9

B. The power to make, alter, amend, or repeal the By-Laws, and to
adopt any new By-Law, except a By-Law classifying directors for election for
staggered terms, shall be vested in the Board of Directors.

          C. Whenever the Corporation shall be authorized to issue only one
class of stock, each outstanding share shall entitle the holder thereof to
notice of, and the right to vote at, any meeting of stockholders. Whenever the
Corporation shall be authorized to issue more than one class of stock, no
outstanding share of any class of stock which is denied voting power under the
provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation shall entitle the holder thereof
to notice of, and the right to vote at, any meeting of stockholders, except as
the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law
of the State of Delaware, as the same may be amended and supplemented, shall
otherwise require.

          NINTH: Any action required or permitted to be taken by the
stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or
special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation or by a unanimous consent in
writing of the stockholders of the Corporation.

          TENTH: The personal liability of the directors of the Corporation is
hereby eliminated to the fullest extent permitted by paragraph (7) of subsection
(b) of Section 102 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as
same may be amended and supplemented. Any repeal or modification of this Article
TENTH by the stockholders of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any
right or protection of a director of the Corporation with respect to events
occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification.

          ELEVENTH: The Corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by
Section 145 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as the same
may be amended and supplemented, indemnify any and all persons whom it shall
have power to indemnify under said section from and against any and all of the
expenses, liabilities or other matters referred to in or covered by said
section, and the indemnification provided for herein shall not be deemed
exclusive of any other rights to which those indemnified may be entitled under
any By-Law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or
otherwise, both as to action in their official capacities and as to action in
another capacity while holding such offices, and shall continue as to a person
who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to
the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.

          TWELFTH: From time to time any of the provisions of this Certificate
of Incorporation may be amended, altered, changed or repealed, and other
provisions authorized by the laws of the State of Delaware at the time in force
may be added or inserted in the manner and at the time prescribed by said laws,
and all rights at any time conferred upon the stockholders of the Corporation by
this Certificate of Incorporation are granted subject to the provisions of this
Article TWELFTH.

10

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Amended and
Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be executed on this 29th day of July,
2005.

                                        WHX CORPORATION

By: /s/ Stewart E. Tabin
                                            ------------------------------
                                            Name: Stewart E. Tabin
                                            Title: President

11

</EX-3.1>

<EX-3.2>
 3
 ex32to10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 3.2

AMENDED AND RESTATED

                                     BY-LAWS

                                       OF

                                 WHX CORPORATION

ARTICLE ONE

                                  STOCKHOLDERS

     SECTION 1.1 ANNUAL  MEETINGS.  An annual meeting of  stockholders  to elect
directors and transact  such other  business as may properly be presented to the
meeting  shall be held on such date and at such place as the Board of  Directors
may from  time to time  fix,  and if that day  shall be a legal  holiday  in the
jurisdiction  in which  the  meeting  is to be held,  then on the next day not a
legal  holiday or as soon  thereafter  as may be practical as  determined by the
Board of Directors.

     SECTION 1.2 SPECIAL  MEETINGS.  A special  meeting of  stockholders  may be
called at any time by the Chairman of the Board,  the Chief  Executive  Officer,
the President,  by the Board of Directors  pursuant to a resolution adopted by a
majority  of the Whole  Board (as  defined  below)  or by the  Secretary  at the
direction of a majority of the voting power of all the then  outstanding  shares
of the voting stock, voting together as a single class upon receipt of a written
request to do so  specifying  the matter or matters,  appropriate  for action at
such a meeting.  Any such meeting  shall be held at such time and at such place,
within or without the State of Delaware,  as shall be  determined by the body or
person  calling  such  meeting  and as shall be  stated  in the  notice  of such
meeting.  The Whole Board  shall mean the total  number of  directors  which the
Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.

     SECTION 1.3 NOTICE OF MEETING.  For each  meeting of  stockholders  written
notice  shall be given  stating  the place,  date and hour and, in the case of a
special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called and, if
the list of  stockholders  required by Section 1.9 is not to be at such place at
least 10 days prior to the meeting, the place where such list will be. Except as
otherwise provided by Delaware law, written notice of any meeting shall be given
not less than 10 or more than 60 days  before  the date of the  meeting  to each
stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed,  notice shall be deemed
to be given when deposited in United States mail,  postage prepaid,  directed to
stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.

     SECTION 1.4 QUORUM.  Except as  otherwise  required by Delaware  law or the
Certificate of Incorporation,  the holders of record of a majority of the shares
of stock  entitled to be voted  present in person or  represented  by proxy at a
meeting  shall  constitute  a quorum  for the  transaction  of  business  at the
meeting,  but in the  absence  of a quorum  the  holders  of record  present  or

represented  by proxy at such  meeting may vote to adjourn the meeting from time
to time,  without notice other than announcement at the meeting,  until a quorum
is obtained.  At any such adjourned  session of the meeting at which there shall
be present or  represented  the  holders  of record of the  requisite  number of
shares,  any business may be transacted  that might have been  transacted at the
meeting as originally called.

     SECTION  1.5  CHAIRMAN  AND  SECRETARY  AT  MEETING.  At  each  meeting  of
stockholders the Chairman, or in his absence the President, or in the absence of
both the Chairman and the  President,  then a person  designated by the Board of
Directors,  shall  preside  as  chairman  of the  meeting;  if no  person  is so
designated,  then the meeting  shall  choose a chairman by plurality  vote.  The
Secretary, or in his absence a person designated by the chairman of the meeting,
shall act as secretary of the meeting.

     SECTION 1.6 VOTING;  PROXIES.  Except as otherwise provided by Delaware law
or the  Certificate of  Incorporation,  and subject to the provisions of Section
1.10:

          (a)  Each  stockholder  shall at every meeting of the  stockholders be
     entitled to one vote for each share of capital stock held by him.

          (b)  Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders or
     to express  consent or dissent  to  corporate  action in writing  without a
     meeting may  authorize  another  person or persons to act for him by proxy,
     but no such proxy  shall be voted or acted upon after  three years from its
     date,  unless the proxy  provides for a longer  period.  A stockholder  may
     authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder as proxy by
     transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram,  cablegram,  or
     other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder
     of the  proxy  or to a  proxy  solicitation  firm,  proxy  support  service
     organization  or like agent duly  authorized  by the person who will be the
     holder of the proxy to receive such  transmission,  provided  that any such
     telegram,  cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission must either
     set forth or be submitted with  information from which it can be determined
     that the telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission was
     authorized by the stockholder.  Such proxy must be filed with the Secretary
     of the  Corporation  or his  representative  at or  before  the time of the
     meeting.

          (c)  Directors shall be elected by a plurality vote.

          (d)  Each matter, other than election of directors, properly presented
     to any  meeting  shall be decided  by a  majority  of the votes cast on the
     matter.

          (e)  Election of directors and the vote on any other matter  presented
     to a meeting shall be by written  ballot only if so ordered by the chairman
     of the meeting or if so requested by any stockholder present or represented
     by  proxy  at the  meeting  entitled  to vote in such  election  or on such
     matter, as the case may be.

     SECTION 1.7 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.  A meeting of stockholders may be adjourned
to another  time or place,  as  determined  by the Chairman of the Meeting or as
provided in Section 1.4.  Unless the Board of Directors fixes a new record date,
stockholders  of  record  for  an  adjourned  meeting  shall  be  as  originally

2

determined  for the  meeting  from  which  the  adjournment  was  taken.  If the
adjournment  is for more than 30 days, or if after the  adjournment a new record
date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall
be given to each  stockholder  of  record  entitled  to vote.  At the  adjourned
meeting any business may be  transacted  that might have been  transacted at the
meeting as originally called.

     SECTION 1.8 CONSENT OF  STOCKHOLDERS  IN LIEU OF MEETING.  Except as may be
otherwise  provided in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation,  any
action that may be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders may be
taken  without a meeting,  without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent
in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of
all of the outstanding  stock that would have been entitled to vote thereon at a
meeting of stockholders.

     SECTION 1.9 LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS  ENTITLED TO VOTE. At least 10 days before
every meeting of  stockholders a complete list of the  stockholders  entitled to
vote at the meeting,  arranged in alphabetical  order and showing the address of
each  stockholder  and the  number  of  shares  registered  in the  name of each
stockholder,  shall be  prepared  and  shall be open to the  examination  of any
stockholder  for any purpose germane to the meeting,  during  ordinary  business
hours, for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting,  at a place within
the city where the meeting is to be held.  Such list shall be produced  and kept
at the time and place of the  meeting  during the whole time  thereof and may be
inspected by any stockholder who is present.

     SECTION  1.10  FIXING OF RECORD  DATE.  In order that the  Corporation  may
determine  the  stockholders  entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of
stockholders  or any  adjournment  thereof,  or to express  consent to corporate
action in  writing  without a meeting,  or  entitled  to receive  payment of any
dividend  or other  distribution  or  allotment  of any  rights,  or entitled to
exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or
for the purpose of any other lawful  action,  the Board of Directors may fix, in
advance,  a record  date,  which  shall not be more than 60 or less than 10 days
before  the date of such  meeting,  nor  more  than 60 days  prior to any  other
action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders
entitled  to notice of or to vote at a meeting of  stockholders  shall be at the
close of business on the day next  preceding  the day on which  notice is given,
or, if notice is waived,  at the close of business on the day next preceding the
day on which the meeting is held; the record date for  determining  stockholders
entitled to express  consent to corporate  action in writing  without a meeting,
when no prior action by the Board of Directors is necessary, shall be the day on
which the first written consent is expressed;  and the record date for any other
purpose  shall be at the  close of  business  on the day on which  the  Board of
Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.

     SECTION 1.11 NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDER BUSINESS AND NOMINATIONS.

     (A) ANNUAL MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS.

          (1)  Nominations  of persons for election to the Board of Directors of
the   Corporation  and  the  proposal  of  business  to  be  considered  by  the
stockholders  may be made at an annual meeting of  stockholders  (a) pursuant to
the Corporation's  notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of
Directors or (c) by any  stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of

3

record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 1.11, who is
entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice  procedures set
forth in this Section 1.11.

          (2)  For  nominations or other business to be properly  brought before
an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of
this Section 1.11,  the  stockholder  must have given timely  notice  thereof in
writing  to the  Secretary  of the  Corporation  and such  other  business  must
otherwise  be  a  proper  matter  for  stockholder   action.  To  be  timely,  a
stockholder's  notice  shall be  delivered  to the  Secretary  at the  principal
executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the
90th day nor  earlier  than the close of  business on the 120th day prior to the
first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided,  however, in
the event  that the date of the annual  meeting  is more than 30 days  before or
more than 60 days after such anniversary  date,  notice by the stockholder to be
timely must be so delivered  not earlier than the close of business on the 120th
day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the
later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the
day on which  public  announcement  of the date of such meeting is first made by
the Corporation,  whichever is later. In no event shall the public  announcement
of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving
of a stockholder's  notice as described above. Such  stockholder's  notice shall
set forth (a) as to each person whom the  stockholder  proposes to nominate  for
election or  reelection  as a director all  information  relating to such person
that is required to be  disclosed  in  solicitations  of proxies for election of
directors  in an  election  contest,  or is  otherwise  required,  in each  case
pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(the  "Exchange  Act"),  and Rule 14a-11  thereunder  (including  such  person's
written  consent  to being  named in the proxy  statement  as a  nominee  and to
serving as a director  if elected)  and any  additional  information  reasonably
requested  by the  Board of  Directors;  (b) as to any other  business  that the
stockholder  proposes to bring before the meeting,  a brief  description  of the
business  desired to be brought  before the meeting,  the reasons for conducting
such business at the meeting and any material  interest in such business of such
stockholder  and the beneficial  owner,  if any, on whose behalf the proposal is
made; and (c) as to the stockholder  giving the notice and the beneficial owner,
if any,  on whose  behalf the  nomination  or  proposal is made (i) the name and
address of such stockholder,  as they appear on the Corporation's  books, and of
such  beneficial  owner,  (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation
that  are  owned  beneficially  and of  record  by  such  stockholder  and  such
beneficial  owner,  (iii) all information  relating to such stockholder and such
beneficial  owner that is required to be disclosed in  solicitations  of proxies
for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise  required,  in
each case  pursuant to  regulation  14A under the Exchange  Act, and Rule 11a-11
thereunder,  and (iv) any  additional  information  reasonably  requested by the
Board of Directors.

     Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this
Section  1.11 to the  contrary,  in the event that the number of directors to be
elected to the Board of Directors of the  Corporation  is increased and there is
no  public  announcement  by the  Corporation  naming  all of the  nominees  for
director or specifying the size of the increased  Board of Directors at least 70
days prior to the first  anniversary of the preceding  year's annual meeting,  a
stockholder's  notice  required by this  Section  1.11 shall also be  considered
timely,  but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such
increase,  if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal  executive

4

offices of the  Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day
following  the day on  which  such  public  announcement  is  first  made by the
Corporation.

     (B) SPECIAL MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS. Only such business shall be conducted
at a special  meeting  of  stockholders  as shall have been  brought  before the
meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting.  Nominations of persons
for  election  to the Board of  Directors  may be made at a special  meeting  of
stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the  Corporation's
notice of meeting (a) by or at the  direction  of the Board of  Directors or (b)
provided  that the Board of Directors has  determined  that  directors  shall be
elected  at  such  meeting,  by  any  stockholder  of the  Corporation  who is a
stockholder  of record at the time of  giving  of  notice  provided  for in this
bylaw,  who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who  complies  with the
notice  procedures set forth in this Section 1.11. In the event the  Corporation
calls a special meeting of stockholders  for the purpose of electing one or more
directors to the Board of Directors,  any such stockholder who shall be entitled
to vote at the  meeting  may  nominate a person or persons (as the case may be),
for election to such  position(s)  as specified in the  Corporation's  notice of
meeting,  if the  stockholder's  notice  required  by  paragraph  (A)(2) of this
Section  1.11 shall be delivered to the  Secretary  at the  principal  executive
offices of the  Corporation  not earlier than the close of business on the 120th
day prior to such  special  meeting  and not later than the close of business on
the  later  of the  90th  day  prior  to such  special  meeting  or the 10th day
following the day on which public  announcement is first made of the date of the
special  meeting and of the  nominees  proposed by the Board of  Directors to be
elected  at such  meeting,  whichever  is later.  In no event  shall the  public
announcement of an adjournment of a special  meeting  commence a new time period
for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.

     (C)  GENERAL.

          (1)  Only  such  persons  who are  nominated  in  accordance  with the
procedures  set  forth  in this  Section  1.11  shall  be  eligible  to serve as
directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders
as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance  with the procedures
set  forth in this  Section  1.11.  Except as  otherwise  provided  by law,  the
Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws,  either the Board of Directors or
the Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a
nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or
proposed,  as the case may be, in accordance  with the  procedures  set forth in
this  Section  1.11  and,  if any  proposed  nomination  or  business  is not in
compliance  with this Section 1.11, to declare that such  defective  proposal or
nomination shall be disregarded.

          (2)  For purposes of this Section 1.11,  "public  announcement"  shall
mean  disclosure  in a press  release  reported  by the Dow Jones News  Service,
Associated Press or comparable  national news service or in a document  publicly
filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.

          (3)  Notwithstanding the foregoing  provisions of this Section 1.11, a
stockholder  shall also comply with all applicable  requirements of the Exchange
Act and the rules and  regulations  thereunder  with  respect to the matters set
forth in this  Section  1.11.  Nothing in this  Section  1.11 shall be deemed to
affect any rights (i) of stockholders  to request  inclusion of proposals in the

5

Corporation's  proxy statement  pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or
(ii)  of the  holders  of any  series  of  preferred  stock,  if  any  shall  be
outstanding, to the extent permitted in the Certificate of Incorporation.

                                  ARTICLE TWO

                                    DIRECTORS

     SECTION 2.1 NUMBER; TERM OF OFFICE;  QUALIFICATIONS;  VACANCIES. The number
of directors  that shall  constitute  the whole Board of  Directors  (the "Whole
Board") shall be fixed from time to time as determined by action of the Board of
Directors  taken by the  affirmative  vote of a majority  of the whole  Board of
Directors.  Directors  shall be elected at the annual meeting of stockholders to
hold office,  subject to Sections 2.2 and 2.3,  until the next annual meeting of
stockholders  and until their  respective  successors are elected and qualified.
Vacancies and newly  created  directorships  resulting  from any increase in the
authorized number of directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then
in office,  although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director,  and
the  directors  so chosen  shall hold  office,  subject to Sections 2.2 and 2.3,
until  the next  annual  meeting  of  stockholders  and until  their  respective
successors are elected and qualified.

     SECTION 2.2  RESIGNATION;  VACANCIES.  Any director of the  Corporation may
resign at any time by giving written notice of such  resignation to the Board of
Directors,  the  President  or  the  Secretary  of  the  Corporation.  Any  such
resignation  shall take effect at the time  specified  therein or, if no time be
specified,  upon  receipt  thereof  by  the  Board  of  Directors  or one of the
above-named  officers;  and, unless  specified  therein,  the acceptance of such
resignation  shall  not be  necessary  to make it  effective.  When  one or more
directors shall resign from the Board of Directors,  a majority of the directors
then in office,  including  those who have so  resigned if such  resignation  is
specified  to take  effect at a future date which has not then  occurred,  shall
have power to fill such  vacancy or  vacancies,  the vote thereon to take effect
when such resignation or resignations shall become effective,  and each director
so chosen shall hold office as provided in these By-Laws in the filling of other
vacancies.

     SECTION 2.3 REMOVAL.  Except for the directors  elected  pursuant to and in
accordance  with the terms of a  Certificate  of  Designations,  Number,  Voting
Powers,  Preferences  and Rights of Preferred  Stock,  whose removal is governed
thereby,  any one or more  directors  may be  removed by  stockholders  only for
cause,  and the  affirmative  vote of at least a majority of the voting power of
all the then  outstanding  shares of voting stock,  voting  together as a single
class, shall be required to effect such removal.

     SECTION 2.4 REGULAR AND ANNUAL  MEETINGS;  NOTICE.  Regular meetings of the
Board of  Directors  shall be held at such  time and at such  place,  within  or
without the State of Delaware,  as the Board of Directors  may from time to time
prescribe.  No notice need be given of any  regular  meeting,  and a notice,  if
given,  need not  specify  the  purposes  thereof.  A  meeting  of the  Board of
Directors  may be held without  notice  immediately  after an annual  meeting of
stockholders at the same place as that at which such meeting was held.

                                       6

SECTION 2.5 SPECIAL  MEETINGS;  NOTICE.  A special  meeting of the Board of
Directors may be called at any time by the Board of Directors, its Chairman, the
Executive  Committee,  the Chief Executive Officer,  the President or any person
acting in the place of the  President  and shall be called by any one of them or
by the  Secretary  upon  receipt of a written  request to do so  specifying  the
matter or  matters,  appropriate  for action at such a meeting,  proposed  to be
presented at the meeting and signed by at least two directors.  Any such meeting
shall be held at such time and at such  place,  within or  without  the State of
Delaware,  as shall be  determined  by the body or person  calling such meeting.
Notice of such  meeting  stating  the time and place and  principal  purpose  or
purposes  thereof  shall be given (a) by  deposit  of the  notice in the  United
States mail,  first  class,  postage  prepaid,  at least two days before the day
fixed for the meeting, or by nationally  recognized  overnight carrier, at least
one day before the day fixed for the  meeting,  in each case  addressed  to each
director  at his address as it appears on the  Corporation's  records or at such
other  address as the  director  may have  furnished  the  Corporation  for that
purpose,  or (b) by delivery of the notice  similarly  addressed for dispatch by
electronic  transmission,  email,  facsimile,  telegraph,  cable  or radio or by
delivery  of notice by  telephone  or in person,  in each case at least 12 hours
before the time fixed for the meeting.

     SECTION 2.6  CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD;  PRESIDING  OFFICER  AND  SECRETARY  AT
MEETINGS.  The Board of  Directors  may elect one of its members to serve at its
pleasure as Chairman of the Board.  Each meeting of the Board of Directors shall
be  presided  over by the  Chairman  of the Board or in his  absence by the Vice
Chairman, or in his absence by the Chief Executive Officer, if a director, or if
neither is present by such member of the Board of  Directors  as shall be chosen
at the meeting. The Secretary,  or in his absence an Assistant Secretary,  shall
act as secretary of the meeting,  or if no such officer is present,  a secretary
of the meeting shall be designated by the person presiding over the meeting.

     SECTION 2.7 QUORUM. A majority of the Whole Board shall constitute a quorum
for the  transaction  of business,  but in the absence of a quorum a majority of
those  present  (or if only one be  present,  then  that  one) may  adjourn  the
meeting,  without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until such time
as a quorum is  present.  Except as  otherwise  required by the  Certificate  of
Incorporation or the By-Laws,  the vote of the majority of the directors present
at a  meeting  at which a quorum  is  present  shall be the act of the  Board of
Directors.

     SECTION 2.8 MEETING BY TELEPHONE.  Members of the Board of Directors or any
committee  thereof may  participate  in meetings of the Board of Directors or of
such  committee  by means of  conference  telephone  or  similar  communications
equipment  by means of which all persons  participating  in the meeting can hear
each other, and such participation  shall constitute  presence in person at such
meeting.

     SECTION 2.9 ACTION  WITHOUT  MEETING.  Unless  otherwise  restricted by the
Certificate of  Incorporation,  any action  required or permitted to be taken at
any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any  committee  thereof may be taken
without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or of such committee,
as the case may be,  consent  thereto in writing and the writing or writings are
filed  with the  minutes of  proceedings  of the Board of  Directors  or of such
committee.

                                       7

SECTION 2.10  EXECUTIVE  AND OTHER  COMMITTEES.  (A) The Board of Directors
may,  by  resolution  passed by a  majority  of the Whole  Board,  designate  an
Executive  Committee and one or more other  committees,  each such  committee to
consist  of  two  or  more  directors  (or,  in the  case  of a  special-purpose
committee,  one or more directors of the  Corporation) as the Board of Directors
may from time to time determine.  Any such committee,  to the extent provided in
such  resolution or  resolutions or in these By-Laws and not  inconsistent  with
Section 141 of the Delaware  General  Corporation  Law, as amended (the "DGCL"),
shall  have and may  exercise  all the  powers  and  authority  of the  Board of
Directors in the  management  of the  business  and affairs of the  Corporation,
including  the power to authorize the seal of the  Corporation  to be affixed to
all papers that may require it; and unless the resolution or  resolutions  shall
expressly  so provide,  no such  committee  shall have the power or authority to
declare a dividend or to  authorize  the  issuance  of stock.  In the absence or
disqualification  of a member of a  committee,  the  member or  members  thereof
present at any meeting and not  disqualified  from  voting,  whether or not such
committee member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another
member  of the Board of  Directors  to act at the  meeting  in place of any such
absent or  disqualified  member.  Each such  committee  other than the Executive
Committee  shall  have such name as may be  determined  from time to time by the
Board of Directors.

     (B)  Unless  the Board of  Directors  otherwise  provides,  each  committee
designated by the Board of Directors  may adopt,  amend and repeal rules for the
conduct of its business. In the absence of a provision by the Board of Directors
or a provision in the rules of such committee to the contrary, a majority of the
entire  authorized number of members of such committee shall constitute a quorum
for the  transaction of business,  the vote of a majority of the members present
at a meeting at the time of such vote if a quorum is then  present  shall be the
act of such  committee,  and in other respects each committee  shall conduct its
business  in the same manner as the Board of  Directors  conducts  its  business
pursuant to Article Two of these By-Laws.

     SECTION 2.11 COMPENSATION.  No director shall receive any stated salary for
his services as a director or as a member of a committee  but shall receive such
sum,  if any,  as may  from  time to time be  fixed  by the  action  of Board of
Directors.

                                 ARTICLE THREE

                                    OFFICERS

     SECTION 3.1 ELECTION;  QUALIFICATION.  The officers of the  Corporation may
include an Executive or  non-Executive  Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive
Officer, a President,  one or more Vice Presidents, a Chief Financial Officer, a
Secretary  and a  Treasurer,  each of whom  shall be  selected  by the  Board of
Directors,  in its sole  determination.  The Board of Directors may also elect a
Controller,  a Chief  Operating  Officer,  one or more Assistant Chief Financial
Officers, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers, Assistant Controllers and
such  other  officers  as it may from  time to time  determine.  Any two or more
offices may be held by the same person.

     SECTION 3.2 TERM OF OFFICE. Each officer shall hold office from the time of
his election and qualification to the time at which his successor is elected and
qualified, unless he shall die or resign or shall be removed pursuant to Section
3.4 at any time sooner.

                                       8

SECTION 3.3  RESIGNATION.  Any officer of the Corporation may resign at any
time by giving written notice of such  resignation to the Chairman of the Board,
Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Secretary of the Corporation.  Any
such resignation  shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if no time
be specified,  upon receipt  thereof by one of the  above-named  officers;  and,
unless  specified  therein,  the  acceptance  of such  resignation  shall not be
necessary to make it effective.

     SECTION  3.4  REMOVAL.  Any  officer  may be removed  at any time,  with or
without cause, by the vote of a majority of the Whole Board.

     SECTION  3.5  VACANCIES.  Any vacancy  however  caused in any office of the
Corporation shall be filled by the Board of Directors.

     SECTION 3.6 COMPENSATION. Unless otherwise provided by resolution passed by
a majority of the Whole Board,  and subject to the  requirements of any national
securities  exchange  or  automated  quotation  system on which the stock of the
Corporation  is listed,  the  salaries of all  officers  elected by the Board of
Directors shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.

     SECTION 3.7 EXECUTIVE  CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. The Executive Chairman of the
Board shall be the chairman of all meetings of the Board of Directors  and shall
keep the Board of Directors  appropriately  informed  regarding the business and
affairs  of the  Corporation,  subject  however  to the  right  of the  Board of
Directors to confer  specified  powers on officers and subject to the control of
the Board of  Directors  and the  Executive  Committee,  if any.  The  Executive
Chairman of the Board  shall be referred to in these  By-Laws as Chairman of the
Board.

     SECTION  3.8 VICE  CHAIRMAN.  The  Board of  Directors  may  designate  any
director to be Vice  Chairman,  and in the absence or disability of the Chairman
of the  Board,  the Vice  Chairman,  if such an officer be  elected,  shall,  if
present,  preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors  and shall have such
other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time  prescribed  for
him by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws.

     SECTION 3.9 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The Chief Executive Officer shall have
responsibility  for the  general  management  and  control of the  business  and
affairs  of the  Corporation  and shall  perform  all duties and have all powers
which are commonly  incident of the office of Chief  Executive  Officer or which
are delegated to him by the Board of Directors,  subject however to the right of
the Board of Directors to confer specified powers on officers and subject to the
control of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, if any. The Chief
Executive Officer shall also keep the Board of Directors  appropriately informed
regarding the business and affairs of the Company.

     SECTION 3.10  PRESIDENT.  The  President,  if so designated by the Board of
Directors and if a Chief Executive Officer is not otherwise appointed,  shall be
the Chief Executive  Officer of the Corporation and shall have general charge of
the business and affairs of the Corporation, subject however to the right of the
Board of  Directors  to confer  specified  powers on officers and subject to the
control of the Board of Directors  and the Executive  Committee,  if any. If not
designated by the Board of Directors as Chief Executive  Officer,  the President
shall have  general  charge of the  day-to-day  operations  of the  business and
affairs  of the  Corporation  and shall  perform  all duties and have all powers

9

which are commonly incident of the office of President or which are delegated to
him by the  Board of  Directors,  subject  however  to the right of the Board of
Directors to confer  specified  powers on officers and subject to the control of
the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, if any.

     SECTION 3.11 EXECUTIVE AND SENIOR VICE PRESIDENTS. One or more Executive or
Senior Vice  Presidents  shall,  subject to the  control of the Chief  Executive
Officer or the President,  have lead  accountability for components or functions
of the  Corporation  as and to the  extent  designated  by the  Chief  Executive
Officer or the  President and shall perform all duties and have all powers which
are commonly  incident of the office of  Executive  or Senior Vice  President or
which are delegated to him by the Board of Directors.  Each  Executive or Senior
Vice President shall keep the Chief  Executive  Officer or the President to whom
he or she  reports  appropriately  informed on the  business  and affairs of the
designated components or functions of the Corporation.

     SECTION 3.12 VICE  PRESIDENTS.  Each Vice President  shall have such powers
and duties as generally pertain to the office of Vice President and as the Board
of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President may from time to time
prescribe. During the absence of the President or his inability to act, the Vice
President,  or if there  shall be more  than one Vice  President,  then that one
designated  by the Board of  Directors,  shall  exercise  the  powers  and shall
perform the duties of the  President,  subject to the  direction of the Board of
Directors and the Executive Committee, if any.

     SECTION  3.13  SECRETARY.  The  Secretary  shall  keep the  minutes  of all
meetings of stockholders and of the Board of Directors. He shall be custodian of
the  corporate  seal  and  shall  affix it or  cause  it to be  affixed  to such
instruments  as require  such seal and attest  the same and shall  exercise  the
powers and shall perform the duties incident to the office of Secretary, subject
to the direction of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, if any.

     SECTION 3.14 CHIEF FINANCIAL  OFFICER.  The Chief  Financial  Officer shall
have overall  responsibility  for the financial affairs and financial  reporting
requirements of the  Corporation,  and such other powers and duties as generally
pertain to the office of Chief Financial  Officer and as the Board of Directors,
the Chief Executive Officer or the President may from time to time prescribe.

     SECTION  3.15  TREASURER.  The  Treasurer  shall  have  charge  of  and  be
responsible  for the  receipt,  disbursement  and  safekeeping  of all funds and
securities of the Corporation. The Treasurer shall deposit all such funds in the
name of the Corporation in such banks,  trust companies or other depositories as
shall be selected in accordance  with the provisions of these bylaws.  From time
to time and whenever  requested to do so, the Treasurer shall render  statements
of the condition of the finances of the  Corporation  to the Board of Directors.
The Treasurer  shall perform all the duties  incident to the office of Treasurer
and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her.

     SECTION 3.16 OTHER OFFICERS.  Each other officer of the  Corporation  shall
exercise the powers and shall perform the duties incident to his office, subject
to the direction of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, if any.

                                       10

ARTICLE FOUR

                                  CAPITAL STOCK

     SECTION 4.1 STOCK CERTIFICATES. The interest of each holder of stock of the
Corporation  shall be evidenced by a certificate or certificates in such form as
the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.  Each certificate  shall
be signed by or in the name of the Corporation by the Chief  Executive  Officer,
the President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer
or the  Secretary  or an  Assistant  Secretary.  Any  or  all of the  signatures
appearing  on  such  certificate  or  certificates  may be a  facsimile.  If any
officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature
has been  placed  upon a  certificate  shall  have  ceased  to be such  officer,
transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued,  it may be issued
by the  Corporation  with the same effect as if he were such  officer,  transfer
agent or registrar at the date of issue.

     SECTION 4.2 TRANSFER OF STOCK. Shares of stock shall be transferable on the
books  of the  Corporation  pursuant  to  applicable  law  and  such  rules  and
regulations as the Board of Directors shall from time to time prescribe.

     SECTION 4.3 HOLDERS OF RECORD. Prior to due presentment for registration of
transfer the  Corporation may treat the holder of record of a share of its stock
as  the  complete  owner  thereof  exclusively  entitled  to  vote,  to  receive
notifications  and  otherwise  entitled  to all  rights and powers of a complete
owner thereof, notwithstanding notice to the contrary.

     SECTION  4.4  LOST,  STOLEN,  DESTROYED  OR  MUTILATED  CERTIFICATES.   The
Corporation  shall  issue a new  certificate  of stock to replace a  certificate
theretofore  issued by it  alleged to have been lost,  destroyed  or  wrongfully
taken, if the owner or his legal representative (i) requests replacement, before
the  Corporation  has notice that the stock  certificate  has been acquired by a
bona fide  purchaser;  (ii)  files with the  Corporation  a bond  sufficient  to
indemnify  the  Corporation  against any loss or  destruction  of any such stock
certificate  or the  issuance  of any  such new  stock  certificate;  and  (iii)
satisfies  such other terms and  conditions  as the Board of Directors  may from
time to time prescribe.

     SECTION 4.5 LEGENDS. All certificates representing stock of the Corporation
issued  after the  effectiveness  of this  Section 4.5 shall bear a  conspicuous
legend as follows:

               THE  TRANSFER  OF  THE  SECURITIES   REPRESENTED
               HEREBY IS SUBJECT TO  RESTRICTIONS  PURSUANT  TO
               ARTICLE    FIFTH   OF   THE    CERTIFICATE    OF
               INCORPORATION OF WHX CORPORATION.

                                  ARTICLE FIVE

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

     SECTION 5.1 INDEMNITY.

                                       11

(a)  Each  person  who was or is made a party or is  threatened  to be
made a party to or is involved  in any  action,  suit,  or  proceeding,  whether
civil, criminal,  administrative or investigative  (hereinafter a "proceeding"),
by  reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal
representative  is or  was  a  director,  officer,  employee  or  agent  of  the
Corporation  or is or was  serving  at the  request  of  the  Corporation,  as a
director,  officer  or  employee  or  agent  of  another  corporation  or  of  a
partnership,  joint venture,  trust or other enterprise,  including service with
respect to  employee  benefit  plans,  whether the basis of such  proceeding  is
alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent
or in any other  capacity  while  serving as a  director,  officer,  employee or
agent,  shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest
extent  authorized  by the DGCL as the same exists or may  hereafter  be amended
(but, in the case of any such amendment,  only to the extent that such amendment
permits the Corporation to provide broader  indemnification rights than said law
permitted the  Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) and in the manner
provided in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation and as otherwise
permitted by the DGCL.

     SECTION  5.2  WAIVER  OF  NOTICE.   Whenever  notice  is  required  by  the
Certificate  of  Incorporation,  the  By-Laws or any  provision  of the DGCL,  a
written waiver thereof,  signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before
or after  the time  required  for such  notice,  shall be deemed  equivalent  to
notice.  Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice
of such  meeting,  except  when the  person  attends a meeting  for the  express
purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any
business  because the meeting is not lawfully  called or  convened.  Neither the
business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting
of the  stockholders,  directors or members of a committee of directors  need be
specified in any written waiver or notice.

     SECTION 5.3 FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the Corporation  shall start on
such date as the Board of Directors shall from time to time prescribe.

     SECTION 5.4 CORPORATE SEAL. The corporate seal shall be in such form as the
Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe,  and the same may be used by
causing it or a  facsimile  thereof to be  impressed  or affixed or in any other
manner reproduced.

                                  ARTICLE SIX

                              AMENDMENT OF BY-LAWS

     SECTION 6.1 AMENDMENT.  The By-Laws may be altered,  amended or repealed by
the stockholders or by the Board of Directors by a majority vote.

12

</EX-3.2>

<EX-4.4>
 4
 ex44to10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 4.4

AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT
                 ----------------------------------------------

AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO LOAN AND SECURITY  AGREEMENT (this "Amendment No.
3"),  dated as of December  29,  2004,  by and among Handy   Harman,  a New York
corporation ("H H"),  Olympic  Manufacturing Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation
("Olympic"),    Continental   Industries,    Inc.,   an   Oklahoma   corporation
("Continental"),   Maryland   Specialty  Wire,  Inc.,  a  Delaware   corporation
("Maryland  Wire"),  Handy   Harman Tube Company,  Inc., a Delaware  corporation
("H H Tube"),  Camdel Metals  Corporation,  a Delaware  corporation  ("Camdel"),
Canfield  Metal  Coating  Corporation,   a  Delaware  corporation  ("Canfield"),
Micro-Tube  Fabricators,  Inc., a Delaware corporation  ("Micro-Tube"),  Indiana
Tube Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Indiana Tube"), Lucas-Milhaupt, Inc.,
a  Wisconsin  corporation   ("Lucas"),   Handy     Harman  Electronic  Materials
Corporation,  a Florida corporation ("H H  Electronic"),  Sumco Inc., an Indiana
corporation ("Sumco" and together with H H, Olympic, Continental, Maryland Wire,
H H Tube, Camdel, Canfield,  Micro-Tube, Indiana Tube, Lucas and H H Electronic,
each individually, a "Borrower" and collectively,  "Borrowers"),  Handy   Harman
of Canada,  Limited, an Ontario corporation ("H H Canada"),  ele Corporation,  a
California  corporation ("ele"), Alloy Ring Service Inc., a Delaware corporation
("Alloy"),  Daniel Radiator  Corporation,  a Texas corporation  ("Daniel"),  H H
Productions,  Inc., a Delaware corporation ("H H  Productions"),  Handy   Harman
Automotive  Group,  Inc., a Delaware  corporation  ("H H Auto"),  Handy   Harman
International,  Ltd.,  a Delaware  corporation  ("H H  International"),  Handy  
Harman Peru, Inc., a Delaware  corporation ("H H Peru"),  KJ-VMI Realty, Inc., a
Delaware  corporation  ("KVR"),  Pal-Rath Realty,  Inc., a Delaware  corporation
("Pal-Rath"),  Platina Laboratories,  Inc., a Delaware corporation  ("Platina"),
Sheffield Street  Corporation,  a Connecticut  corporation  ("Sheffield"),  SWM,
Inc., a Delaware corporation ("SWM") and Willing B Wire Corporation,  a Delaware
corporation ("Willing" and together with each of H H Canada, ele, Alloy, Daniel,
H H Productions, H H Auto, H H International,  H H Peru, KVR, Pal-Rath, Platina,
Sheffield  and  SWM,  each   individually,   a  "Guarantor"  and   collectively,
"Guarantors"),  Congress Financial Corporation,  a Delaware corporation,  in its
capacity as agent pursuant to the Loan Agreement (as hereinafter defined) acting
for the  financial  institutions  party  thereto as lenders  (in such  capacity,
together  with  its   successors   and  assigns,   "Agent")  and  the  financial
institutions party thereto as lenders (collectively, "Lenders").

                               W I T N E S S E T H
                               - - - - - - - - - -

            WHEREAS, Agent, Lenders,  Borrowers and Guarantors have entered into
financing arrangements pursuant to which Lenders (or Agent on behalf of Lenders)
have  made  and  may  make  loans  and  advances  and  provide  other  financial
accommodations  to Borrowers  as set forth in the Loan and  Security  Agreement,
dated  as of  March  31,  2004,  by and  among  Agent,  Lenders,  Borrowers  and
Guarantors  (as  amended by Consent  and  Amendment  No. 1 to Loan and  Security
Agreement, dated as of August 31, 2004, and Amendment No. 2 to Loan and Security
Agreement,  dated as of  October  29,  2004,  and as the same may  hereafter  be
further  amended,  modified,   supplemented,   extended,  renewed,  restated  or
replaced,  the  "Loan  Agreement"),  and the  other  agreements,  documents  and

instruments  referred to therein or at any time  executed  and/or  delivered  in
connection therewith or related thereto (all of the foregoing, together with the
Loan  Agreement,  as the same now exist or may  hereafter be amended,  modified,
supplemented,  extended,  renewed,  restated  or  replaced,  being  collectively
referred to herein as the "Financing Agreements");

            WHEREAS,  Borrowers and  Guarantors  have  requested  that Agent and
Lenders  agree  to  certain  amendments  to the  Loan  Agreement  and the  other
Financing  Agreements,  and  Agent  and  Lenders  are  willing  to agree to such
amendments, subject to the terms and conditions contained herein; and

            WHEREAS, by this Amendment No. 3, Borrowers,  Guarantors,  Agent and
Lenders desire and intend to evidence such consents and amendments;

                        NOW THEREFORE,  in consideration  of the foregoing,  and
the respective agreements and covenants contained herein, the parties hereto
agree as follows:

            1. DEFINITIONS.

               (a) AMENDMENT TO DEFINITIONS.

                   (i) The definition of  "Applicable  Margin" in Section 1.8 of
the Loan Agreement is hereby  amended by deleting such  definition and replacing
it with the following:

                        "1.8  'Applicable  Margin'  shall mean, at any
                   time,  as to the Interest Rate for Prime Rate Loans
                   and the Interest  Rate for  Eurodollar  Rate Loans,
                   the  applicable  percentage  (on a per annum basis)
                   set forth  below if the  Quarterly  Average  Excess
                   Availability  for the immediately  preceding fiscal
                   quarter is at or within the amounts  indicated  for
                   such percentage:

                                              Applicable Prime           Applicable Eurodollar
                                                 Rate Margin                  Rate Margin
                                                 -----------                  -----------

                                        Revolving                       Revolving         Term
      Excess Availability                 Loans       Term Loans          Loans           Loans
      -------------------                 -----       ----------        ----------        -----

(a) $12,500,000 or more                    0%           .25%              1.75%           2.00%

(b) Equal to or greater                   .25%          .50%              2.00%           2.25%
    than $10,000,000 but
    less than $12,500,000

(c) Less than $10,000,000                 .50%          .75%              2.25%           2.50%

      PROVIDED,  THAT, the  Applicable  Margin shall be calculated and
      established once each fiscal quarter (commencing with the fiscal
      quarter beginning January 1, 2005)."

                   (ii) The definition of "Continuing  Reserves" in Section 1.27
of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by deleting "5,000,000" and replacing it
with "$2,500,000."

                                       2

(iii) The  definition of "Eligible  Accounts" in Section 1.33
of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by:

                             (A) inserting the following  provision  immediately
before the semicolon at the end of clause (e) of such  definition:  "; PROVIDED,
THAT,  the chief  executive  office of the account  debtor with  respect to such
Accounts  may be  located  outside  of the  United  States of  America or Canada
without  the need to comply  with the other  requirements  of this clause (e) so
long as the aggregate amount of all such Accounts does not exceed  $1,000,000 at
any time" and

                             (B) deleting  "fifteen  (15%)  percent" from clause
(m) of such definition and replacing it with "twenty-five (25%) percent."

                (iv) The  definition  of "Interest  Rate" in Section 1.69 of the
Loan  Agreement  is  hereby  amended  by  deleting  clauses  (a) and (b) of such
definition and replacing it with the following:

                        "(a)  Subject to  clauses  (b) and (c) of this
                definition below:

                              (i)  as to  Revolving  Loans  which  are
                Prime  Rate  Loans,  a rate equal to  one-half  of one
                (.50%) percent per annum in excess of the Prime Rate,

                              (ii) as to  Revolving  Loans  which  are
                Eurodollar  Rate  Loans,  a  rate  equal  to  two  and
                one-quarter (2.25%) percent per annum in excess of the
                Adjusted  Eurodollar Rate (in each case,  based on the
                Eurodollar  Rate  applicable  for the Interest  Period
                selected by a Borrower, or by Administrative  Borrower
                on behalf  of such  Borrower,  as in effect  three (3)
                Business  Days  after the date of  receipt by Agent of
                the request of or on behalf of such  Borrower for such
                Eurodollar  Rate  Loans in  accordance  with the terms
                hereof,  whether such rate is higher or lower than any
                rate previously quoted to any Borrower or Guarantor).

                              (iii) as to Term  Loans  which are Prime
                Rate  Loans,  a rate  equal to  three-quarters  of one
                (.75%)  percent per annum in excess of the Prime Rate,
                and

                              (iv)  as  to  Term   Loans   which   are
                Eurodollar  Rate  Loans,  a  rate  equal  to  two  and
                one-half  (2.50%)  percent  per annum in excess of the
                Adjusted  Eurodollar Rate (in each case,  based on the
                Eurodollar  Rate  applicable  for the Interest  Period
                selected by a Borrower, or by Administrative  Borrower
                on behalf  of such  Borrower,  as in effect  three (3)
                Business  Days  after the date of  receipt by Agent of
                the request of or on behalf of such  Borrower for such
                Eurodollar  Rate  Loans in  accordance  with the terms
                hereof,  whether such rate is higher or lower than any
                rate previously quoted to any Borrower or Guarantor).

                                       3

(b)  Subject to clause (c) of this  definition
                below,  effective  as of the  first  (1st)  day of the
                second (2nd) month of each fiscal quarter  (commencing
                with the fiscal quarter  beginning on or about January
                1, 2005),  the Interest Rate payable by Borrowers with
                respect to Loans shall be increased or  decreased,  as
                the case may be, (i) as to  Revolving  Loans which are
                Prime Rate Loans,  to the rate equal to the Applicable
                Margin  on a per  annum  basis in  excess of the Prime
                Rate,  (ii) as to Revolving Loans which are Eurodollar
                Rate Loans, to the rate equal to the Applicable Margin
                on a  per  annum  basis  in  excess  of  the  Adjusted
                Eurodollar  Rate,  (iii) as to Term  Loans  which  are
                Prime Rate Loans,  to the Rate equal to the Applicable
                Margin  on a per  annum  basis in  excess of the Prime
                Rate and (iv) as to Term  Loans  which are  Eurodollar
                Rate Loans, to the rate equal to the Applicable Margin
                on a  per  annum  basis  in  excess  of  the  Adjusted
                Eurodollar Rate."

                (v) The  definition  of  "Specified  Account  Debtor" in Section
1.125 of the Loan  Agreement is hereby  amended by deleting such  definition and
replacing it with the following:

                        "1.25 'Specified  Account Debtors' shall mean,
                collectively,   (a)  Carlyle  Syntec,  (b)  Therma-Tru
                Corp., (c) US Gympsum, (d) Whirlpool Corporation,  (e)
                Delphi Automotive, (f) Teradyne Corp., (g) Olin Corp.,
                (h) Kyphon,  Inc.,  (i) US  Surgical,  and (j) General
                Electric Corporation."

                (vi)  The   definition   of   "Specified   Concentration   Limit
Percentage" in Section 1.126 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by deleting
such definition and replacing it with the following:

                        "1.126    'Specified    Concentration    Limit
                Percentage'  shall  mean,  for any  Specified  Account
                Debtor (a) thirty (30%) percent for each of US Gypsum,
                Carlyle Syntec, and General Electric Corporation,  (b)
                forty (40%) percent for Kyphon,  Inc., (c) fifty (50%)
                percent for Therma-Tru Corp. and US Surgical,  and (d)
                sixty  (60%)  percent  for each of Delphi  Automotive,
                Teradyne Corp., Whirlpool Corporation and Olin Corp."

                (b) ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS.  As used herein, the following terms
shall have the following  meanings given to them below and the Loan Agreement is
hereby amended to include, in addition and not in limitation, the following:

                   (i)  "Amendment No. 3" shall mean Amendment No. 3 to Loan and
Security Agreement by and among Borrowers, Guarantors, Agent and the Lenders, as
the same  now  exists  or may  hereafter  be  amended,  modified,  supplemented,
extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

                                       4

(ii)  "Amendment  No. 3 Effective  Date" shall mean the first
date on which all of the conditions  precedent to the effectiveness of Amendment
No. 3 shall have been satisfied or waived.

                   (iii) "Olympic Expansion Project" shall mean the expansion to
Olympic's facility located at 153 Bowles Road, Agawan, Massachusetts.

            2. LETTER OF CREDIT FEE.  Section  2.2(b) of the Loan  Agreement  is
hereby  amended by deleting  such Section and  replacing it with the  following:

                        "(b)  In  addition  to any  charges,  fees  or
                expenses  charged by any bank or issuer in  connection
                with the  Letter of Credit  Accommodations,  Borrowers
                shall pay to Agent,  for the  benefit  of  Lenders,  a
                letter of credit  fee at a per annum rate equal to one
                and  three-quarters  (1.75%)  percent per annum on the
                daily  outstanding  balance  of the  Letter  of Credit
                Accommodations for the immediately preceding month (or
                part thereof),  payable in arrears as of the first day
                of each succeeding  month,  except that Agent may, and
                upon the written  direction of Required Lenders shall,
                require  Borrowers  to pay to Agent for the benefit of
                Lenders  such letter of credit fee, at a rate equal to
                three and three-quarters  (3.75%) percent per annum on
                such daily  outstanding  balance  for:  (i) the period
                from and after the date of  termination  hereof  until
                Agent and Lenders have received full and final payment
                of  all  Obligations   (notwithstanding   entry  of  a
                judgment  against  any  Borrower)  and (ii) the period
                from and after the date of the  occurrence of an Event
                of  Default  for so long as such  Event of  Default is
                continuing  as  determined  by Agent.  Such  letter of
                credit fee shall be calculated on the basis of a three
                hundred  sixty (360) day year and actual days  elapsed
                and the  obligation of Borrowers to pay such fee shall
                survive the termination of this Agreement."

            3. CONDITIONS TO CERTAIN LOANS AND LETTER OF CREDIT  ACCOMMODATIONS.
Section 4 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following at the
end of such Section:

                        "4.3  CONDITIONS  PRECEDENT TO REVOLVING LOANS
                AND LETTER OF CREDIT  ACCOMMODATIONS  RELATING  TO THE
                OLYMPIC EXPANSION PROJECT. Each of the following is an
                additional   condition   precedent   to  making   each
                Revolving Loan and/or  providing each letter of Credit
                Accommodations  which  will  be used  to  finance  (or
                support) any of the costs or expenses  associated with
                the Olympic Expansion Project:

                              (a) All conditions  precedent contain in
                              section 4.2 of the Loan Agreement  shall
                              have been satisfied;

                                       5

(b)  Agent   shall   have   received   a
                              certificate,  substantially  in the form
                              of  Exhibit E hereto,  duly  authorized,
                              executed  and  delivered  by  the  chief
                              financial officer of Parent; and

                              (c) Agent shall have  received,  in form
                              and substance reasonably satisfactory to
                              Agent, a valid and effective endorsement
                              to the title  insurance  policy insuring
                              the  lien   created   by  the   Mortgage
                              encumbering the Real Property in Agawam,
                              Massachusetts,  issued by a company  and
                              agent acceptable to Agent."

            4. USE OF  PROCEEDS.  Section  6.6 of the Loan  Agreement  is hereby
amended by adding  the  following  after the period at the end of such  Section:
"None of the proceeds of the Revolving Loans or Letter of Credit  Accommodations
will be used to finance any of the costs or expenses associated with the Olympic
Expansion  Project  unless the  conditions  contained  in Section 4.3 hereof are
satisfied."

            5.  COLLATERAL  REPORTING.  Section  7.1(a) of the Loan Agreement is
hereby amended as follows:

                (a) Section 7.1(a)(i) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting such Section and replacing it with the following:

                        "(i) on each Business Day,  schedules of sales
                made,  credits  issued  and cash  received;  PROVIDED,
                THAT,  Borrowing Base Parties shall not be required to
                comply  with the terms of this  clause  (i)  unless an
                Event  of  Default   shall  have  occurred  or  Excess
                Availability  was less than  $4,500,000  for three (3)
                consecutive days;"

                (b) Section  7.1(a)(ii) of the Loan  Agreement is hereby amended
by deleting such Section and replacing it with the following:

                        "(ii) on a weekly basis or more  frequently as
                Agent may request in good faith,  (A)  precious  metal
                inventory  reports  (broken  down by  Precious  Metals
                Inventory that is owned and Precious Metals  Inventory
                that is on consignment) by location, type and category
                (and  including the amounts of such  Inventory and the
                value  thereof at any leased  location and at premises
                of warehouses,  processors or third parties) and (B) a
                Borrowing   Base   Certificate   setting   forth   the
                calculation  of the  Borrowing  Base  as of  the  last
                Business Day of the  immediately  preceding week as to
                Accounts and Precious  Metals  Inventory and as of the
                last Business Day of the  immediately  preceding month
                as  to   Inventory   (other   than   Precious   Metals
                Inventory),  duly  completed and executed by the chief

                                       6

financial officer of Administrative Borrower, together
                with all schedules  required  pursuant to the terms of
                the  Borrowing   Base   Certificate   duly   completed
                (including   a  schedule  of  all   Accounts  of  each
                Borrowing Base Party created, collections received and
                credit memos issued on a daily basis);"

                (c) Section  7.1(a)(iii)(E)  is hereby  amended by deleting such
Section and replacing it with the following:

                         "(E) [Intentionally Deleted],"

            6. SCHEDULES AND EXHIBITS TO LOAN  AGREEMENT.  The Loan Agreement is
hereby  amended by adding a new Exhibit E to the Loan  Agreement  in the form of
Exhibit A attached to this Amendment No. 3.

            7. SIGNATURE  PAGES.  The signature  pages to the Loan Agreement are
hereby amended by deleting  "CAMDEL METAL COATING  CORPORATION" and replacing it
with "CAMDEL METALS CORPORATION".

            8. AMENDMENT FEE. In addition to all other fees,  charges,  interest
and expenses  payable by Borrowers to Agent and Lenders under the Loan Agreement
and other Financing Agreements, Borrowers shall pay to Agent, for the account of
Lenders, an amendment fee in the amount of $75,000, which shall be fully earned,
due and payable as of the date  hereof and which may be charged  directly to any
loan account of Borrowers maintained by Agent.

            9.  REPRESENTATIONS,  WARRANTIES  AND  COVENANTS.  Each Borrower and
Guarantor  hereby  represents,  warrants and  covenants to Agent and Lenders the
following  (which shall survive the execution and delivery of this Amendment No.
3), the truth and accuracy of which are a continuing  condition of the making of
Loans and providing Letter of Credit Accommodations to Borrowers:

                (a) This Amendment No. 3 and each other  agreement or instrument
to be executed and delivered by Borrowers and Guarantors in connection  herewith
(collectively,  together with this Amendment No. 3, the  "Amendment  Documents")
have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by all necessary action on the
part of each of the Borrowers and Guarantors which is a party hereto and thereto
and, if necessary, their respective stockholders and is in full force and effect
as of the date hereof, as the case may be, and the agreements and obligations of
each of the Borrowers and Guarantors,  as the case may be,  contained herein and
therein  constitute  the legal,  valid and  binding  obligations  of each of the
Borrowers and  Guarantors,  enforceable  against them in  accordance  with their
terms,   except  as  enforceability   is  limited  by  bankruptcy,   insolvency,
reorganization,  moratorium or other laws relating to or affecting generally the
enforcement of creditors'  rights and except to the extent that  availability of
the  remedy of  specific  performance  or  injunctive  relief is  subject to the
discretion of the court before which any proceeding therefor may be brought.

                (b) The  execution,  delivery and  performance of this Amendment
No. 3 (a) are all within each  Borrower's and  Guarantor's  corporate or limited
liability company powers and (b) are not in contravention of law or the terms of

                                       7

any Borrower's or Guarantor's certificate or articles of incorporation, by laws,
or  other  organizational   documentation,   or  any  indenture,   agreement  or
undertaking (including,  without limitation, the Indenture or the Tranche B Term
Loan  Agreement)  to which any  Borrower or Guarantor is a party or by which any
Borrower or Guarantor or its property are bound.

                (c) No Default or Event of Default exists or has occurred and is
continuing.

                (d) The  Intercreditor  Amendment  (as  defined  below) has been
executed and delivered by all parties thereto and is in full force and effect.

                (e)  All  structures  and  other  improvements   constructed  in
connection with the Olympic  Expansion  Project have been or will be constructed
in compliance  with all set back  requirements  and within the boundaries of the
Real Property  located at 153 Bowles Road,  Agawam,  Massachusetts  (the "Agawam
Real Property"), which is encumbered by the Mortgage made by Olympic in favor of
Agent.

                (f)  Borrowers  shall  deliver or cause to be delivered to Agent
(i) promptly upon substantial completion of the Olympic Expansion Project, an as
built survey of the structure and other  improvements  constructed in connection
with the Olympic  Expansion Project (the "New  Structures"),  (ii) promptly upon
the Borrowers'  receipt thereof,  copies of temporary  certificates of occupancy
with respect to the New  Structures  issued by a Governmental  Authority,  (iii)
promptly  upon  completion of the New  Structures,  a permanent  certificate  of
occupancy with respect to the New Structures issued by a Governmental Authority,
and (iv) promptly upon  completion of the New Structures,  such  endorsements to
the existing title policy as may be reasonably requested by Agent.

                (g) All of the  representations  and warranties set forth in the
Loan Agreement and the other Financing  Agreements,  each as amended hereby, are
true and correct in all material  respects on and as of the date  hereof,  as if
made on the  date  hereof,  except  to the  extent  any such  representation  or
warranty is made as of a specified  date, in which case such  representation  or
warranty shall have been true and correct as of such date.

            10. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT. The provisions contained herein shall only
be effective upon the satisfaction of each of the following conditions precedent
in a manner satisfactory to Agent:

                (a)  Agent  shall  have  received  this  Amendment  No.  3, duly
authorized, executed and delivered by Borrowers, Guarantors and Lenders;

                (b) Agent shall have received an amendment to the  Intercreditor
Agreement (the "Intercreditor Amendment"), in form and substance satisfactory to
Agent, duly authorized,  executed and delivered by Tranche B Term Loan Agent and
acknowledged by Borrowers and Guarantors, which Intercreditor Amendment shall be
in full force and effect;

                (c) Agent  shall have  received a true and  correct  copy of any
consent, waiver or approval to or of this Amendment No. 3 or any other Amendment
Documents  which any  Borrower or Guarantor is required to obtain from any other
Person,  and such  consent,  waiver  or  approval  shall  in form and  substance
satisfactory to Agent;

                                       8

(d) Agent shall have received the construction schedule relating
to the Olympic Expansion  Project,  the plans and specifications for the Olympic
Expansion  Project,  and the project  cost  estimate  for the Olympic  Expansion
Project; and

                (e) no Default or Event of Default  shall exist or have occurred
and be continuing.

            11. EFFECT OF THIS AGREEMENT.  Except as expressly  amended pursuant
hereto,  no other  changes or  modifications  to the  Financing  Agreements  are
intended or implied,  and, in all other respects,  the Financing  Agreements are
hereby specifically ratified, restated and confirmed by all parties hereto as of
the  effective  date  hereof.  To the  extent  that  any  provision  of the Loan
Agreement or any of the other  Financing  Agreements are  inconsistent  with the
provisions of this Amendment No. 3, the provisions of this Amendment No. 3 shall
control.

            12. FURTHER  ASSURANCES.  Borrowers and Guarantors shall execute and
deliver such  additional  documents  and take such  additional  action as may be
requested by Agent to effectuate  the  provisions and purposes of this Amendment
No. 3.

            13. GOVERNING LAW. The validity,  interpretation  and enforcement of
this Agreement and the other Financing  Agreements (except as otherwise provided
therein)  and any dispute  arising out of the  relationship  between the parties
hereto, whether in contract, tort, equity or otherwise, shall be governed by the
internal laws of the State of New York but excluding any principles of conflicts
of law or other rule of law that would cause the  application  of the law of any
jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of New York.

            14. BINDING  EFFECT.  This Amendment No. 3 shall be binding upon and
inure  to the  benefit  of each  of the  parties  hereto  and  their  respective
successors and assigns.

            15.  HEADINGS.  The headings listed herein are for convenience  only
and do not constitute matters to be construed in interpreting this Amendment No.
3.

            16. COUNTERPARTS. This Amendment No. 3 may be executed in any number
of  counterparts,  each of which  shall be an  original,  but all of which taken
together shall  constitute one and the same  agreement.  Delivery of an executed
counterpart of this Amendment No. 3 by  telefacsimile  shall have the same force
and effect as the delivery of an original executed counterpart of this Amendment
No. 3. Any party  delivering an executed  counterpart of this Amendment No. 3 by
telefacsimile  shall also  deliver an  original  executed  counterpart,  but the
failure to do so shall not affect the validity, enforceability or binding effect
of such agreement.

[REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

9

IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the parties  hereto have caused this Amendment
No. 3 to be executed on the day and year first above written.

AGENT                                        BORROWERS
- -----                                        ---------

CONGRESS FINANCIAL CORPORATION,              HANDY   HARMAN
  as Agent

By: /s/ Thomas Grabosky                      By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
    --------------------------               -----------------------------------
Title: First Vice President                  Title: Vice President - CFO

OLYMPIC MANUFACTURING GROUP, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

LENDERS
- -------

CONGRESS FINANCIAL CORPORATION               CONTINENTAL INDUSTRIES, INC.

By: /s/ Thomas Grabosky                      By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
    --------------------------               -----------------------------------
Title: First Vice President                  Title: Vice President

TEXTRON FINANCIAL CORPORATION                MARYLAND SPECIALTY WIRE, INC.

By: /s/ Kurt Kalliomoa                       By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
    --------------------------               -----------------------------------
Title: Senior Account Executive              Title: Vice President

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.                        HANDY   HARMAN TUBE COMPANY, INC.

By: /s/ Kim Bushey                           By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
    --------------------------               -----------------------------------
Title: Authorized Officer                    Title: Vice President

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

                                             CAMDEL METALS CORPORATION

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

                                             CANFIELD METAL COATING CORPORATION

By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Secretary

MICRO-TUBE FABRICATORS, INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

INDIANA TUBE CORPORATION

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

LUCAS-MILHAUPT, INC.

                                              By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

HANDY   HARMAN ELECTRONIC MATERIALS
                                             CORPORATION

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

SUMCO INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

GUARANTORS
                                             ----------

                                             HANDY   HARMAN OF CANADA, LIMITED

                                             By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

ELE CORPORATION

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

ALLOY RING SERVICE INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

DANIEL RADIATOR CORPORATION

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

H H PRODUCTIONS, INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

HANDY   HARMAN AUTOMOTIVE GROUP,
                                             INC.

                                             By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

                                             HANDY   HARMAN PERU, INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

KJ-VMI REALTY, INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

PAL-RATH REALTY, INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

PLATINA LABORATORIES, INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

SHEFFIELD STREET CORPORATION

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

SWM, INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

WILLING B WIRE CORPORATION

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President

Exhibit A to
                                                                 Amendment No. 3

                                    Exhibit E

                              OFFICER'S CERTIFICATE

To:         Congress Financial Corporation,  as Agent
            1133 Avenue of the Americas
            New York, New York 10036

Ladies and Gentlemen:

            I  hereby  certify  to you  pursuant  to  Section  4.3  of the  Loan
Agreement (as defined below) as follows:

            1. I am the duly elected Chief Financial  Officer of Handy   Harman,
a New  York  corporation  ("Parent").  Capitalized  terms  used  herein  without
definition  shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Loan and Security
Agreement, dated March 31, 2004, by and among Congress Financial Corporation, as
agent for the financial institutions party thereto as lenders (in such capacity,
"Agent"),  the financial  institutions  party thereto as lenders  (collectively,
"Lenders"),  Parent and  certain of its  affiliates  (as such Loan and  Security
Agreement is amended,  modified or  supplemented,  from time to time,  the "Loan
Agreement").

            2. I am familiar with the matters relating to the Olympic  Expansion
Project  and the  construction  of the  structure  located at 153  Bowles  Road,
Agawam, Massachusetts (the "Property").

            3.  This  Certificate  is  being  delivered  in  connection  with  a
Revolving Loan or a Letter of Credit Accommodation which will be used to finance
(or support) costs or expenses  associated  with the Olympic  Expansion  Project
(such Loan or Letter of Credit  Accommodation  is  hereinafter  referred to as a
"Specified Extension of Credit").

            4. The  Specified  Extension  of Credit shall be used solely for the
purpose  of  continuing  the  construction  and/or  completion  of  the  Olympic
Expansion  Project  in  accordance  with  plans  and  specifications  plans  and
specifications  therefor  which  have been  previously  submitted  to Agent (the
"Plans").  No material  changes or amendments to the Plans have been made except
as previously disclosed to Agent in writing. The Olympic Expansion Project is to
be completed in accordance with a construction  schedule relating to the Olympic
Expansion Project previously  submitted to Agent (the  "Construction  Schedule")
and the project  cost  estimate  for the Olympic  Expansion  Project  previously
submitted to Agent (the "Project Cost  Estimate"),  except as disclosed to Agent
in writing.

5. As of the date hereof, all approvals required to be received from
any Governmental  Authority with respect to the Olympic Expansion Project are in
full force and effect.

            6. As of the date  hereof,  all  work  for  which  funds  under  the
Specified  Extension of Credit are  requested  has been  completed in accordance
with Plans and the Project Cost Statement.

            7. As of the date hereof,  lien  waivers from payees under  requests
for funds under any previous Specified Extensions of Credit are attached hereto;

            8. As of the date hereof,  there are sufficient  funds  remaining in
the Project Cost Estimate to complete the construction of the Olympic  Expansion
Project.

            9. As of the date  hereof,  construction  of the  Olympic  Expansion
Project  complies with all  applicable  laws,  rules,  restrictions,  orders and
regulations;

            10. As of the date  hereof,  the  Olympic  Expansion  Project can be
completed in accordance with the Construction Schedule.

The  foregoing  certifications  are made and  delivered  this day of
___________, 20__.

                                        Very truly yours,

                                        HANDY   HARMAN

                                        By:_______________________

                                        Title:_____________________

</EX-4.4>

<EX-4.5>
 5
 ex45to10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 4.5

AMENDMENT NO. 4 TO LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT
                 ----------------------------------------------

AMENDMENT NO. 4 TO LOAN AND SECURITY  AGREEMENT (this "Amendment No.
4"),  dated  as of May 20,  2005,  by and  among  Handy     Harman,  a New  York
corporation ("H H"),  OMG, Inc., formerly known as Olympic  Manufacturing Group,
Inc., a Delaware corporation ("OMG"),  Continental Industries, Inc., an Oklahoma
corporation   ("Continental"),   Maryland   Specialty  Wire,  Inc.,  a  Delaware
corporation  ("Maryland  Wire"),  Handy   Harman Tube Company,  Inc., a Delaware
corporation  ("H H Tube"),  Camdel Metals  Corporation,  a Delaware  corporation
("Camdel"),   Canfield  Metal  Coating   Corporation,   a  Delaware  corporation
("Canfield"),    Micro-Tube   Fabricators,    Inc.,   a   Delaware   corporation
("Micro-Tube"),  Indiana  Tube  Corporation,  a Delaware  corporation  ("Indiana
Tube"), Lucas-Milhaupt,  Inc., a Wisconsin corporation ("Lucas"), Handy   Harman
Electronic  Materials  Corporation,  a Florida  corporation ("H H  Electronic"),
Sumco  Inc.,  an  Indiana  corporation  ("Sumco"  and  together  with H H,  OMG,
Continental,  Maryland Wire, H H Tube,  Camdel,  Canfield,  Micro-Tube,  Indiana
Tube,   Lucas  and  H H  Electronic,   each   individually,   a  "Borrower"  and
collectively,  "Borrowers"),  Handy   Harman  of  Canada,  Limited,  an  Ontario
corporation ("H H Canada"),  ele Corporation,  a California corporation ("ele"),
Alloy Ring  Service  Inc., a Delaware  corporation  ("Alloy"),  Daniel  Radiator
Corporation, a Texas corporation ("Daniel"),  H H Productions,  Inc., a Delaware
corporation  ("H H  Productions"),  Handy   Harman  Automotive  Group,  Inc.,  a
Delaware  corporation  ("H H  Auto"),  Handy    Harman  International,  Ltd.,  a
Delaware  corporation  ("H H  International"),  Handy    Harman  Peru,  Inc.,  a
Delaware  corporation ("H H Peru"),  KJ-VMI Realty, Inc., a Delaware corporation
("KVR"),  Pal-Rath Realty,  Inc., a Delaware corporation  ("Pal-Rath"),  Platina
Laboratories,  Inc.,  a  Delaware  corporation  ("Platina"),   Sheffield  Street
Corporation,  a Connecticut  corporation  ("Sheffield"),  SWM,  Inc., a Delaware
corporation  ("SWM")  and  Willing B Wire  Corporation,  a Delaware  corporation
("Willing"  and  together  with each of H H  Canada,  ele,  Alloy,  Daniel,  H H
Productions,  H H Auto, H H  International,  H H Peru, KVR,  Pal-Rath,  Platina,
Sheffield  and  SWM,  each   individually,   a  "Guarantor"  and   collectively,
"Guarantors"),   Wachovia  Bank,  National   Association,   a  national  banking
association,  successor  by merger to  Congress  Financial  Corporation,  in its
capacity as agent pursuant to the Loan Agreement (as hereinafter defined) acting
for the  financial  institutions  party  thereto as lenders  (in such  capacity,
together  with  its   successors   and  assigns,   "Agent")  and  the  financial
institutions party thereto as lenders (collectively, "Lenders").

                              W I T N E S S E T H:
                              - - - - - - - - - --

            WHEREAS, Agent, Lenders,  Borrowers and Guarantors have entered into
financing arrangements pursuant to which Lenders (or Agent on behalf of Lenders)
have  made  and  may  make  loans  and  advances  and  provide  other  financial
accommodations  to Borrowers  as set forth in the Loan and  Security  Agreement,
dated  as of  March  31,  2004,  by and  among  Agent,  Lenders,  Borrowers  and
Guarantors  (as  amended by Consent  and  Amendment  No. 1 to Loan and  Security
Agreement,  dated as of August 31,  2004,  Amendment  No. 2 to Loan and Security
Agreement, dated as of October 29, 2004 and Amendment No. 3 to Loan and Security
Agreement,  dated as of December  29,  2004,  and as the same may  hereafter  be
further  amended,  modified,   supplemented,   extended,  renewed,  restated  or
replaced,  the  "Loan  Agreement"),  and the  other  agreements,  documents  and

instruments  referred to therein or at any time  executed  and/or  delivered  in
connection therewith or related thereto (all of the foregoing, together with the
Loan  Agreement,  as the same now exist or may  hereafter be amended,  modified,
supplemented,  extended,  renewed,  restated  or  replaced,  being  collectively
referred to herein as the "Financing Agreements");

            WHEREAS,  Borrowers and  Guarantors  have  requested  that Agent and
Lenders  agree  to  certain  amendments  to the  Loan  Agreement  and the  other
Financing  Agreements,  and  Agent  and  Lenders  are  willing  to agree to such
amendments, subject to the terms and conditions contained herein; and

            WHEREAS, by this Amendment No. 4, Borrowers,  Guarantors,  Agent and
Lenders desire and intend to evidence such consents and amendments;

            NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and the respective
agreements and covenants contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:

            1. AMENDMENTS TO DEFINITIONS.

               (a) All  references to the term  "Olympic" in the Loan  Agreement
and in any of the other  Financing  Agreements  are hereby  deleted and replaced
with "OMG".

               (b) All references to the term "Olympic Expansion Project" in the
Loan Agreement and in any of the other  Financing  Agreements are hereby deleted
and replaced with "OMG Expansion Project".

               (c) The definition of  "Applicable  Margin" in Section 1.8 of the
Loan  Agreement is hereby  amended by deleting such  definition and replacing it
with the following:

                         "1.8  'Applicable  Margin' shall mean, at any
                    time, as to the Interest Rate for Prime Rate Loans
                    and the Interest Rate for  Eurodollar  Rate Loans,
                    the  applicable  percentage (on a per annum basis)
                    set forth below if the  Quarterly  Average  Excess
                    Availability for the immediately  preceding fiscal
                    quarter is at or within the amounts  indicated for
                    such percentage:

                                                   Applicable Prime                           Applicable Eurodollar
                                                     Rate Margin                                     Rate Margin
                                                     -----------                                     -----------
                                                                        Equipment                                 Equipment
                                        Revolving                       Purchase         Revolving     Term       Purchase
      Excess Availability                 Loans       Term Loans        Term Loans         Loans       Loans      Term Loans
      -------------------                 -----       ----------        ----------         -----       -----       ----------

(a) $12,500,000 or more                    0%           .25%               .25%            1.75%       2.00%         2.00%

(b) Equal to or greater                   .25%          .50%               .50%            2.00%       2.25%         2.25%
    than $10,000,000 but
    less than $12,500,000

(c) Less than $10,000,000                 .50%          .75%               .75%            2.25%       2.50%         2.50%

                                       2

PROVIDED, THAT, the Applicable Margin shall be
                        calculated  and  established  once each fiscal
                        quarter  (commencing  with the fiscal  quarter
                        beginning January 1, 2005)."

                (d) The definition of  "Commitment"  in Section 1.24 of the Loan
Agreement is hereby  amended by deleting such  definition  and replacing it with
the following:

                         "1.24  'Commitment'  shall mean, at any time,
                    as to each Lender,  the principal amount set forth
                    opposite  such  Lender's name on Schedule 1 hereto
                    or on Schedule 1 to the  Assignment and Acceptance
                    pursuant  to  which  such  Lender  became a Lender
                    hereunder in  accordance  with the  provisions  of
                    Section 13.7  hereof,  as the same may be adjusted
                    from  time to time in  accordance  with the  terms
                    hereof;  sometimes being collectively  referred to
                    herein as "Commitments".

                (e) The  definition  of  "EBITDA"  in  Section  1.32 of the Loan
Agreement is hereby  amended by deleting such  definition  and replacing it with
the following:

                         "1.32  "EBITDA" shall mean, as to any Person,
                    with  respect to any period,  an amount  equal to:
                    (a) the Consolidated Net Income of such Person for
                    such   period,    plus   (b)    depreciation   and
                    amortization   for  such  period  (to  the  extent
                    deducted in the  computation of  Consolidated  Net
                    Income of such  Person),  all in  accordance  with
                    GAAP,  plus (c)  Interest  Expense for such period
                    (to the  extent  deducted  in the  computation  of
                    Consolidated net Income of such Person),  plus (d)
                    the  Provision  for Taxes for such  period (to the
                    extent deducted in the computation of Consolidated
                    Net Income of such Person),  plus (e) the net loss
                    attributed to the  operations of Maryland Wire for
                    each of the periods and in the respective  amounts
                    listed in  Schedule  1.32-A  hereto,  plus (f) the
                    charge  attributed to the  Fairfield  facility for
                    the period and in the  amount  listed in  Schedule
                    1.32-B;  provided,  that, EBITDA of the Parent and
                    its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, for the
                    fiscal   quarters   ending   March  31,  June  30,
                    September 30 and December 31, 2003 shall equal the
                    applicable  amounts  set  forth on  Schedule  1.32
                    corresponding to such period."

                (f) The definition of "Excess  Availability"  in Section 1.46 of
the Loan  Agreement is hereby amended by deleting "the Term Loans" and replacing
it with "the Term Loans or the Equipment Purchase Term Loans".

                                       3

(g) The  definition  of "Fixed  Charges" in Section  1.57 of the
Loan  Agreement is hereby  amended by deleting such  definition and replacing it
with the following:

                         "1.57 'Fixed  Charges'  shall mean, as to any
                    Person and its  Subsidiaries  with  respect to any
                    period, the sum of, without  duplication,  (i) all
                    cash  Interest  Expense,  provided that any annual
                    fees paid to the  Tranche B Term Loan  Lenders  or
                    Tranche B Term Loan Agent will be considered to be
                    a cash  Interest  Expense  when such  amounts  are
                    recognized  as an expense in the income  statement
                    of any Borrower or  Guarantor,  (ii) all regularly
                    scheduled  (as  determined at the beginning of the
                    respective    period)   principal    payments   of
                    Indebtedness   for  borrowed   money   (including,
                    without   limitation,   all  regularly   scheduled
                    payments of principal in respect of the Term Loans
                    and  the   Equipment   Purchase  Term  Loans)  and
                    Indebtedness  with respect to  Capitalized  Leases
                    (and  without  duplicating  amounts in item (i) of
                    this  definition,   the  interest  component  with
                    respect to Indebtedness under Capitalized Leases),
                    but  excluding  all  payments  in kind or non-cash
                    payments of  interest  on account of  Indebtedness
                    under the WHX  Subordinated  Note,  (iii) all cash
                    income  taxes  (including,   without   limitation,
                    payments made  pursuant to Section  9.12(b)(iii)),
                    (iv) cash  dividends,  repurchases  or redemptions
                    paid by such  Person and its  Subsidiaries  (other
                    than to such Person or such Person's Subsidiaries)
                    in respect of Capital Stock,  (v) management  fees
                    paid in cash (in each case as to such  Person  and
                    its  Subsidiaries)  and (vi) all cash payments for
                    pension  expenses  paid  by  such  Person  and its
                    Subsidiaries during such period to the extent such
                    payments are not deducted  from the  determination
                    of  Consolidated  Net  Income,  including  but not
                    limited to payments for pension expenses to WHX."

                (h) The  definition  of  "Interest  Rate" in Section 1.69 of the
Loan  Agreement  is  hereby  amended  by  deleting  clauses  (a) and (b) of such
definition and replacing it with the following:

                         "(a)  Subject to clauses  (b) and (c) of this
                    definition below:

                               (i) as to  Revolving  Loans  which  are
                    Prime Rate Loans,  a rate equal to one-half of one
                    (.50%)  percent  per  annum in excess of the Prime
                    Rate,

                               (ii) as to  Revolving  Loans  which are
                    Eurodollar  Rate  Loans,  a rate  equal to two and
                    one-quarter (2.25%) percent per annum in excess of
                    the Adjusted  Eurodollar Rate (in each case, based
                    on the Eurodollar Rate applicable for the Interest
                    Period    selected   by   a   Borrower,    or   by
                    Administrative   Borrower   on   behalf   of  such

                                       4

Borrower,  as in effect  three (3)  Business  Days
                    after the date of receipt by Agent of the  request
                    of  or  on  behalf  of  such   Borrower  for  such
                    Eurodollar Rate Loans in accordance with the terms
                    hereof,  whether such rate is higher or lower than
                    any rate  previously  quoted  to any  Borrower  or
                    Guarantor).

                               (iii)  as to Term  Loans  or  Equipment
                    Purchase Term Loans which are Prime Rate Loans,  a
                    rate equal to three-quarters of one (.75%) percent
                    per annum in excess of the Prime Rate, and

                               (iv)  as to  Term  Loans  or  Equipment
                    Purchase  Term  Loans  which are  Eurodollar  Rate
                    Loans,  a rate equal to two and  one-half  (2.50%)
                    percent  per  annum  in  excess  of  the  Adjusted
                    Eurodollar  Rate  (in  each  case,  based  on  the
                    Eurodollar Rate applicable for the Interest Period
                    selected  by  a  Borrower,  or  by  Administrative
                    Borrower on behalf of such Borrower,  as in effect
                    three (3) Business  Days after the date of receipt
                    by Agent of the  request  of or on  behalf of such
                    Borrower  for  such   Eurodollar   Rate  Loans  in
                    accordance  with the terms  hereof,  whether  such
                    rate is higher or lower  than any rate  previously
                    quoted to any Borrower or Guarantor).

                               (b)  Subject  to  clause  (c)  of  this
                    definition below,  effective as of the first (1st)
                    day of the  second  (2nd)  month  of  each  fiscal
                    quarter   (commencing   with  the  fiscal  quarter
                    beginning  on  or  about  January  1,  2005),  the
                    Interest Rate payable by Borrowers with respect to
                    Loans shall be increased or decreased, as the case
                    may be, (i) as to Revolving  Loans which are Prime
                    Rate  Loans,  to the rate equal to the  Applicable
                    Margin on a per annum basis in excess of the Prime
                    Rate,   (ii)  as  to  Revolving  Loans  which  are
                    Eurodollar  Rate  Loans,  to the rate equal to the
                    Applicable  Margin on a per annum  basis in excess
                    of the Adjusted  Eurodollar Rate, (iii) as to Term
                    Loans or Equipment  Purchase  Term Loans which are
                    Prime  Rate  Loans,  to  the  Rate  equal  to  the
                    Applicable  Margin on a per annum  basis in excess
                    of the  Prime  Rate and  (iv) as to Term  Loans or
                    Equipment Purchase Term Loans which are Eurodollar
                    Rate  Loans,  to the rate equal to the  Applicable
                    Margin  on a per  annum  basis  in  excess  of the
                    Adjusted Eurodollar Rate."

                (i) The  definition  of  "Loans"  in  Section  1.79 of the  Loan
Agreement is hereby  amended by deleting such  definition  and replacing it with
the following:

                               "1.79 'Loans' shall mean, collectively,
                    the  Revolving  Loans,  the  Term  Loans  and  the
                    Equipment Purchase Term Loans."

                                  5

(j) The  definition  of "Maximum  Credit" in Section 1.82 of the
Loan  Agreement is hereby  amended by deleting such  definition and replacing it
with the following:

                               "1.82  'Maximum  Credit' shall mean the
                    amount of $85,050,000;  provided,  that, effective
                    upon the  Initial  Equipment  Purchase  Term  Loan
                    Request   Date   the   Maximum    Credit    shall,
                    automatically  and without any further action,  be
                    increased to $88,050,000."

            2. ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS. As used herein, the following terms shall
have the following  meanings given to them below, and the Loan Agreement and the
other Financing Agreements are hereby amended to include, in addition and not in
limitation, the following:

                (a)  "Amendment  No. 4" shall mean  Amendment  No. 4 to Loan and
Security Agreement by and among Borrowers, Guarantors, Agent and the Lenders, as
the same  now  exists  or may  hereafter  be  amended,  modified,  supplemented,
extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

                (b) "Amendment  No. 4 Effective  Date" shall mean the first date
on which all of the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of Amendment No. 4
shall have been satisfied or waived.

                (c) "Eligible New Equipment"  shall mean all new Equipment owned
by OMG which is acquired with the proceeds of the Equipment  Purchase term Loans
in  connection  with the OMG  Expansion  Project and is in good  order,  repair,
running and  marketable  condition,  and  acceptable to Agent in good faith.  In
general,  Eligible New Equipment shall not include:  (i) Equipment located at or
purchased by OMG and  contracted  for  delivery to premises  other than the Real
Property in Agawam,  Massachusetts  owned and  controlled by OMG; (ii) Equipment
subject to a security  interest or lien in favor of any person other than Agent,
except those  permitted in this Agreement  that are subject to an  intercreditor
agreement in form and substance satisfactory to Agent between the holder of such
security interest or lien and Agent; (iii) Equipment which is not located in the
United  States of  America;  (iv)  Equipment  which is not  subject to the first
priority,  valid  and  perfected  security  interest  of  Agent;  (v)  worn-out,
obsolete,  damaged or defective Equipment or Equipment not used or usable in the
ordinary  course  of  OMG's  business  as  presently  conducted;  (vi)  computer
hardware;  or (vii)  Equipment that is or becomes a fixture to any Real Property
unless such Real Property is located in Agawam,  Massachusetts and is encumbered
by the Mortgage  made by OMG. The criteria for Eligible New  Equipment set forth
above may only be changed and any new criteria  for  Eligible  New  Equipment be
only be revised by Agent from time to time in good faith  based on either (A) an
event,  condition  or other  circumstance  arising  after  the  Amendment  No. 4
Effective Date, or (B) an event, condition or other circumstance existing on the
Amendment No. 4 Effective Date to the extent Agent has no written notice thereof
from OMG prior to the  Amendment  No. 4  Effective  Date,  in either  case under
clause (A) or (B) which  adversely  affects or could  reasonably  be expected to
adversely  affect the Equipment in the good faith  determination  of Agent.  Any
Equipment which is not Eligible New Equipment shall  nevertheless be part of the
Collateral.

                (d)  "Equipment  Purchase  Term  Loan  Request"  shall  have the
meaning specified in Section 2.3(A)(d)(i) hereof.

                                       6

(e)  "Equipment  Purchase Term Loans" shall mean,  collectively,
the  equipment  purchase  term  loans  made by or on behalf of Lenders to OMG as
provided for in Section 2.3A hereof;  each  sometimes  being  referred to herein
individually as an "Equipment Purchase Term Loan".

                (f)  "Equipment  Purchase  Term Note" shall mean the  promissory
note made by OMG in favor of Agent for the benefit of Lenders in connection with
the Equipment  Purchase Term Loans made pursuant to Section 2.3A hereof,  as the
same now exists or may hereafter be amended, modified,  supplemented,  extended,
renewed, restated or replaced.

                (g) "Hard Costs" shall mean, with respect to the purchase by OMG
of an item of  Eligible  New  Equipment,  the net cash amount  actually  paid to
acquire  title  to  such  item,  net of  all  incentives,  trade-in  allowances,
discounts and rebates, and exclusive of freight, delivery charges,  installation
costs and charges,  software costs,  charges and fees,  warranty  costs,  taxes,
insurance  and other  incidental  costs or expenses  and all  indirect  costs or
expenses of any kind.

                (h) "Initial  Equipment  Purchase  Term Loan Request Date" shall
mean the date on which Agent receives the initial  Equipment  Purchase Term Loan
Request from OMG.

                (i)  "OMG"  shall  mean OMG,  Inc.,  formerly  known as  Olympic
Manufacturing  Group,  Inc.,  a Delaware  corporation,  and its  successors  and
assigns.

            3. EQUIPMENT PURCHASE TERM LOANS. Section 2 of the Loan Agreement is
hereby amended by adding the following immediately after Section 2.3:

               "2.3A  Equipment Purchase Term Loans.

                      (a) Subject to and upon the terms and conditions
                contained herein,  each Lender shall fund its Pro Rata
                Share of the  Equipment  Purchase  Term  Loans to OMG,
                from time to time on or prior to December 31, 2005, at
                the request of OMG, in an aggregate  principal  amount
                of up to eighty  (80%)  percent  of the Hard  Costs of
                Eligible New Equipment to be purchased by OMG with the
                proceeds of such Equipment  Purchase Term Loans.  Each
                Equipment  Purchase Term Loan shall be in an amount of
                not less than $500,000  (and in integral  multiples of
                $100,000  greater  than  such  amount).   All  of  the
                proceeds of each Equipment Purchase Term Loan shall be
                used solely for the payment of the  purchase  price of
                the  Eligible  New  Equipment  specified in the notice
                required to be delivered to Agent  pursuant to Section
                2.3A(d)(i) below.

                      (b) The outstanding  aggregate  principal amount
                of the Equipment Purchase Term Loans shall not exceed,
                at any time, the lower of (i) the aggregate  amount of
                the above percentage of the Hard Costs of all Eligible
                New Equipment purchased by OMG pursuant hereto or (ii)
                $3,000,000.  If at any time the outstanding  aggregate
                principal amount of all Equipment  Purchase Term Loans

                                  7

shall exceed eighty (80%) percent of the Hard Costs of
                all Eligible New  Equipment  purchased by OMG with the
                proceeds of Equipment  Purchase Term Loans,  OMG shall
                remain liable therefor,  and Agent may, at its option,
                create a Reserve against amounts  otherwise  available
                to OMG  pursuant to the  formulas set forth in Section
                2.1 of  this  Agreement,  in an  amount  equal  to the
                entire amount of such  excess(es)  or OMG shall,  upon
                the demand by Agent, which may be made at any time and
                from time to time,  repay to Agent, for the benefit of
                Lenders the entire amount of such excess(es).

                      (c) Each  Equipment  Purchase Term Loan shall be
                (i)  evidenced  by the  Equipment  Purchase  Term Note
                executed and  delivered by OMG to Agent,  (ii) repaid,
                together  with  interest  and  other  amounts  payable
                thereunder,  in accordance  with the provisions of the
                Equipment  Purchase Term Note,  this Agreement and the
                other Financing  Agreements,  and (iii) secured by all
                of the Collateral.

                      (d)  In   addition   to  the  other   conditions
                precedent   to  any   Loan   or   Letter   of   Credit
                Accommodation set forth in this Agreement,  the making
                of each Equipment  Purchase Term Loan shall be subject
                to  the   satisfaction   of  each  of  the   following
                additional   conditions  precedent  as  determined  by
                Agent:

                           (i) Agent shall have  received from OMG not
                less than ten (10) Business Days prior written  notice
                of the proposed Equipment Purchase Term Loan (each, an
                "Equipment Purchase Term Loan Request"),  which notice
                shall specify the following: (A) the proposed date and
                amount of the Equipment Purchase Term Loan, (B) a list
                and  description  of the  Eligible New  Equipment  (by
                model, make,  manufacturer,  serial number and/or such
                other  identifying  information as may be requested by
                Agent),  (C) the Hard  Costs  and the  total  purchase
                price for the Eligible  New  Equipment to be purchased
                with the proceeds of such Equipment Purchase Term Loan
                (and the terms of payment of such purchase price), and
                (D) such other  information and documents as Agent may
                from time to time request with respect thereto;

                           (ii) upon OMG  acquiring  any rights in the
                Equipment,  Agent  shall  have a valid  and  perfected
                first priority  security interest in and lien upon the
                Eligible  New  Equipment  to  be  purchased  with  the
                proceeds of the Equipment  Purchase Term Loan, and the
                Eligible New Equipment  shall be free and clear of all
                other  liens,  security  interests,  claims  or  other
                encumbrances  (except  for  liens  permitted  by  this
                Agreement   that  are  subject  to  an   intercreditor
                agreement in form and substance  satisfactory to Agent

                                       8

between  the holder of such lien and  Agent),  and OMG
                shall have  delivered to Agent such evidence  thereof,
                as Agent may from time to time require;

                           (iii) the amount of each Equipment Purchase
                Term Loan shall not exceed  (80%)  percent of the Hard
                Costs of the Eligible New Equipment to be purchased by
                OMG with the proceeds of such Equipment  Purchase Term
                Loan;

                           (iv) Agent shall have received  copies,  or
                upon Agent's  request,  originals,  of all agreements,
                documents and instruments  relating to the sale of the
                Eligible  New  Equipment  to OMG,  including,  without
                limitation,  any purchase orders,  invoices,  bills of
                sale or similar documents,  each in form and substance
                satisfactory to Agent;

                           (v) no Default  or Event of  Default  shall
                exist or have occurred and be continuing; and

                           (vi) the aggregate  principal amount of all
                Equipment  Purchase  Term Loans made by Lenders  shall
                not exceed $3,000,000.

                      (e) In addition to all other terms,  conditions,
                covenants and  provisions  set forth herein and in the
                other  Financing  Agreements,  on or prior to July 31,
                2005, Agent shall have received evidence  satisfactory
                to Agent that all of the  Eligible New  Equipment  has
                been installed by OMG and is in good working order and
                operating for its intended purpose.

                      (f)  The  principal  amount  of  each  Equipment
                Purchase  Term  Loan  shall  be  payable  (subject  to
                earlier   payment  as  provided   herein  or  in  such
                Equipment  Purchase  Term Note) in sixty  (60)  equal,
                consecutive monthly installments of principal, each in
                an amount  calculated  in  accordance  with clause (f)
                below, commencing on the first day of the second month
                after  the  date  of  the  making  of  such  Equipment
                Purchase  Term Loan,  together with interest and other
                amounts  as  provided  herein  and  in  the  Equipment
                Purchase Term Note with respect thereto.

                      (g) The amount of each  monthly  installment  of
                principal in respect of each  Equipment  Purchase Term
                Loan (other than the last  installment  which shall be
                in an amount equal to the entire unpaid balance of the
                Equipment  Purchase  Term Note) shall  equal:  (i) the
                original  principal amount of such Equipment  Purchase
                Term Loan divided by (ii) one-sixtieth (1/60)."

                                       9

4.  MANDATORY  PREPAYMENTS.  Section  2.4 of the Loan  Agreement  is
hereby amended as follows:

                (a) Section 2.4(a)(i) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting  "and  third"  and  replacing  it with  ",  third,  to the  outstanding
principal amount of the Equipment Purchase Term Loans, and fourth";

                (b) Section  2.4(a)(ii) of the Loan  Agreement is hereby amended
by deleting  "and second" and  replacing it with ", second,  to the  outstanding
principal amount of the Equipment Purchase Term Loans, and third";

                (c) Section  2.4(b) of the Loan  Agreement is hereby  amended by
deleting  "and  second" and  replacing  it with ",  second,  to the  outstanding
principal amount of the Equipment Purchase Term Loans, and third";

                (d) Section 2.4(c)(i) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting "and third" and replacing it with "third, to the outstanding  principal
amount of the Equipment Purchase Term Loans, and fourth";

                (e) Section  2.4(c)(ii) of the Loan  Agreement is hereby amended
by deleting  "and second" and  replacing it with ", second,  to the  outstanding
principal amount of the Equipment Purchase Term Loans, and third";

                (f) Section  2.4(c)(iii) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended
by deleting such Section and replacing it with the following:

                           "(iii)  if such sale or  disposition  is of
                any Specified Properties,  then fifty (50%) percent of
                such  Net  Cash  Proceeds  shall  be  applied  to  the
                outstanding  principal amount of the Term Loans or the
                Equipment Purchase Term Loans (as Agent may elect) and
                fifty (50%) percent of such Net Cash Proceeds shall be
                applied  to the  outstanding  principal  amount of the
                Tranche B Term Loan until the aggregate amount of such
                Net Cash Proceeds so applied  equals  $2,000,000,  and
                thereafter any such additional Net Cash Proceeds shall
                be applied, first, to the outstanding principal amount
                of the  Tranche  B Loan,  second,  to the  outstanding
                principal  amount  of the  Term  Loans,  third  to the
                outstanding principal amount of the Equipment Purchase
                Term Loans, and fourth,  to the outstanding  principal
                amount of the Revolving Loans."; and

                (g) Section  2.4(d) of the Loan  Agreement is hereby  amended by
deleting  "the Term Loans" from each place it appears and replacing it with "the
Term Loans, the Equipment Purchase Term Loans".

            5. INTEREST.  Section  3.1(b)(v)(A)  of the Loan Agreement is hereby
amended by deleting  "the Term Loans" and  replacing it with "the Term Loans and
the Equipment Purchase Term Loans".

                                       10

6.  EQUIPMENT  PURCHASE  TERM  LOAN  FEE.  Section  3.2 of the  Loan
Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following at the end of such Section:

                      "(c)  On  the  date  of  the  initial  Equipment
                Purchase Term Loan,  Borrowers shall pay to Agent, for
                the account of Lenders,  a facility  fee in the amount
                of  $25,000,  which  will  be  fully  earned,  due and
                payable on the date of the initial Equipment  Purchase
                Term  Loan and which may be  charged  directly  to any
                loan account of Borrowers maintained by Agent."

            7. AMENDMENTS TO FINANCIAL COVENANTS.

                (a) Section  9.17(a) of the Loan  Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting such Section and replacing it with the following:

                      "(a) EBITDA.  Parent and its Subsidiaries  shall
                not permit EBITDA of Parent and its Subsidiaries, on a
                consolidated  basis,  for  the  four  (4)  consecutive
                fiscal  quarters  ending on the last day of the fiscal
                quarter set forth below to be less than the applicable
                amount set forth below:

                FISCAL QUARTER END                MINIMUM EBITDA
                ------------------                --------------
                March 31, 2004                    $25,784,000
                June 30, 2004                     $25,874,000
                September 30, 2004                $27,658,000
                December 31, 2004                 $30,202,000
                March 31, 2005                    $27,000,000
                June 30, 2005                     $27,000,000
                September 30, 2005                $30,000,000
                December 31, 2005                 $35,000,000
                March 31, 2006                    $36,000,000
                June 30, 2006                     $37,000,000
                September 30, 2006                $38,000,000
                December 31, 2006 and each        $39,000,000"
                fiscal quarter ending thereafter

                                       11

(b) Section  9.17(b) of the Loan  Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting such Section and replacing it with the following:

                      "(b) FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO. Parent and its
                Subsidiaries   shall  not  permit  the  Fixed   Charge
                Coverage  Ratio for the  applicable  period  set forth
                below to be less than the  ratio  set  forth  opposite
                such period:

                                                                   MINIMUM FIXED
                         FISCAL QUARTER END                     CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO
                         ------------------                     ---------------------

                For the 3 months ending June 30, 2004                0.75 to 1
                For the 6 months ending September 30, 2004           0.90 to 1
                For the 9 months ending December 31, 2004            0.75 to 1
                For the 3 months ending March 31, 2005               0.10 to 1
                For the 6 months ending June 30, 2005                0.75 to 1
                For the 9 months ending September 30, 2005           1 to 1
                For the 12 months ending December 31, 2005           1 to 1
                For the four (4) consecutive fiscal quarters
                ending on the last day of each fiscal quarter        1 to 1"
                thereafter

                (c) Section  9.17(c) of the Loan  Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting such Section and replacing it with the following:

                      "(c) MAXIMUM CAPITAL EXPENDITURES. Parent and it
                Subsidiaries  shall not, directly or indirectly,  make
                or commit to make (whether through  purchase,  capital
                lease  or  otherwise)  Capital  Expenditures  for  the
                applicable  period set forth  below to be in excess of
                the applicable amount set forth opposite such period:

                                                                  MAXIMUM
                           PERIOD                            CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
                           ------                            --------------------

                Fiscal year ending December 31, 2004              $16,000,000
                For the 3 months ending March 31, 2005            $ 5,700,000
                For the 6 months ending June 30, 2005             $10,700,000
                For the 9 months ending September 30, 2005        $15,700,000
                For the 12 months ending December 31, 2005        $18,500,000"
                and for each 12 months ending on the last day
                of each fiscal quarter thereafter

                                       12

(d) Section  9.17(d) of the Loan  Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting such Section and replacing it with the following:

                      "(d) LEVERAGE RATIO. Parent and its Subsidiaries
                shall not permit the Leverage  Ratio of the Parent and
                its Subsidiaries,  on a consolidated  basis, as of the
                last day of the fiscal  quarter  set forth below to be
                greater than the applicable ratio set forth below:

                                                                   MAXIMUM
                        FISCAL QUARTER END                       LEVERAGE RATIO
                        ------------------                       --------------

                June 30, 2004                                      4.30 to 1
                September 30, 2004                                 4.20 to 1
                December 31, 2004                                  4.20 to 1
                March 31, 2005                                     5.25 to 1
                June 30, 2005                                      5.25 to 1
                September 30, 2005                                 4.75 to 1
                December 31, 2005                                  4.00 to 1
                March 31, 2006                                     4.00 to 1
                June 30, 2006                                      4.00 to 1
                September 30, 2006                                 4.00 to 1
                December 31, 2006 and each fiscal                  4.00 to 1"
                quarter ending thereafter

            8. TERM.  Section 13.1(d) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting  "the Term Loans" from the last  sentence of such Section and replacing
it with "the Term Loans and/or the Equipment Purchase Term Loans".

                                       13

9. SCHEDULES TO LOAN AGREEMENT. The Loan Agreement is hereby amended
by adding new Schedules 1, 1.32-A and 1.32-B to the Loan Agreement,  each in the
respective  forms  thereof as set forth on Exhibit A attached to this  Amendment
No. 4.

            10. AMENDMENT FEE. In addition to all other fees, charges,  interest
and expenses  payable by any Borrower or Guarantor to Agent or Lenders under the
Loan  Agreement and the other  Financing  Agreements,  Borrowers and  Guarantors
shall pay to Agent  for the  account  of  Lenders  (in such  manner as Agent may
agree),  contemporaneously  with the  effectiveness  of this Amendment No. 4, an
amendment  fee in the amount of  $125,000,  which fee shall be fully  earned and
nonrefundable  as of the date  hereof and may be charged to any loan  account of
Borrowers.

            11.  REPRESENTATIONS,  WARRANTIES AND  COVENANTS.  Each Borrower and
Guarantor  hereby  represents,  warrants and  covenants to Agent and Lenders the
following  (which shall survive the execution and delivery of this Amendment No.
4), the truth and accuracy of which are a continuing  condition of the making of
Loans and providing Letter of Credit Accommodations to Borrowers:

                (a) This Amendment No. 4 and each other  agreement or instrument
to be executed and delivered by Borrowers and Guarantors in connection  herewith
(collectively,  together with this Amendment No. 4, the  "Amendment  Documents")
have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by all necessary action on the
part of each of the Borrowers and Guarantors which is a party hereto and thereto
and, if necessary, their respective stockholders and is in full force and effect
as of the date hereof, as the case may be, and the agreements and obligations of
each of the Borrowers and Guarantors,  as the case may be,  contained herein and
therein  constitute  the legal,  valid and  binding  obligations  of each of the
Borrowers and  Guarantors,  enforceable  against them in  accordance  with their
terms,   except  as  enforceability   is  limited  by  bankruptcy,   insolvency,
reorganization,  moratorium or other laws relating to or affecting generally the
enforcement of creditors'  rights and except to the extent that  availability of
the  remedy of  specific  performance  or  injunctive  relief is  subject to the
discretion of the court before which any proceeding therefor may be brought.

                (b) The  execution,  delivery and  performance of this Amendment
No. 4 (a) are all within each  Borrower's and  Guarantor's  corporate or limited
liability company powers and (b) are not in contravention of law or the terms of
any Borrower's or Guarantor's certificate or articles of incorporation, by laws,
or  other  organizational   documentation,   or  any  indenture,   agreement  or
undertaking  to which  any  Borrower  or  Guarantor  is a party or by which  any
Borrower or Guarantor or its property are bound.

                (c) No Default or Event of Default exists or has occurred and is
continuing.

                (d) The Tranche B Amendment (as defined below) has been executed
and delivered by all parties thereto and is in full force and effect.

                (e) All of the  representations  and warranties set forth in the
Loan Agreement and the other Financing  Agreements,  each as amended hereby, are
true and correct in all material  respects on and as of the date  hereof,  as if
made on the  date  hereof,  except  to the  extent  any such  representation  or
warranty is made as of a specified  date, in which case such  representation  or
warranty shall have been true and correct as of such date.

                                       14

12. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT. The provisions contained herein shall only
be effective upon the satisfaction of each of the following conditions precedent
in a manner satisfactory to Agent:

                (a)  Agent  shall  have  received  this  Amendment  No.  4, duly
authorized,  executed  and  delivered  by  Borrowers,  Guarantors  and  Required
Lenders;

                (b) Agent shall have  received  the initial  Equipment  Purchase
Term  Note,  in form and  substance  satisfactory  to  Agent,  duly  authorized,
executed and delivered by OMG;

                (c)  Agent   shall  have   received,   in  form  and   substance
satisfactory  to  Agent,  a  Secretary's  Certificate  from  each  Borrower  and
Guarantor with respect to, among other things,  the  resolutions of the Board of
Directors of such Borrower and Guarantor evidencing the adoption and subsistence
of  resolutions  approving  the  execution,  delivery  and  performance  by such
Borrower  and  Guarantor  of  this  Amendment  No.  4 and  the  other  Amendment
Documents;

                (d) Agent shall have  received (i) an amendment to the Tranche B
Term  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Tranche  B  Amendment"),  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory to Agent,  duly  authorized,  executed and delivered by each of the
parties  thereto,  which Tranche B Amendment  shall be in full force and effect,
and  (ii)  an  amendment  to the  Intercreditor  Agreement  (the  "Intercreditor
Amendment"),  in form and  substance  satisfactory  to Agent,  duly  authorized,
executed  and  delivered  by  Tranche B Term  Loan  Agent  and  acknowledged  by
Borrowers and Guarantors,  which Intercreditor  Amendment shall be in full force
and effect;

                (e) Agent  shall have  received a true and  correct  copy of any
consent, waiver or approval to or of this Amendment No. 4 or any other Amendment
Documents  which any  Borrower or Guarantor is required to obtain from any other
Person,  and such  consent,  waiver  or  approval  shall  in form and  substance
satisfactory to Agent; and

                (f) no Default or Event of Default  shall exist or have occurred
and be continuing.

            13.  MORTGAGES.  Solely for purposes of construing the Mortgages and
the Obligations secured thereby, the parties hereto agree that (a) the Equipment
Purchase  Term Loans  shall be deemed to be "Term  Loans" and (b) the  Equipment
Purchase Term Loans and all Obligations relating thereto shall be secured by the
Mortgages and the liens created thereby.

            14. EFFECT OF THIS AGREEMENT.  Except as expressly  amended pursuant
hereto,  no other  changes or  modifications  to the  Financing  Agreements  are
intended or implied,  and, in all other respects,  the Financing  Agreements are
hereby specifically ratified, restated and confirmed by all parties hereto as of
the  effective  date  hereof.  To the  extent  that  any  provision  of the Loan
Agreement or any of the other  Financing  Agreements are  inconsistent  with the
provisions of this Amendment No. 4, the provisions of this Amendment No. 4 shall
control.

                                       15

15. FURTHER  ASSURANCES.  Borrowers and Guarantors shall execute and
deliver such  additional  documents  and take such  additional  action as may be
requested by Agent to effectuate  the  provisions and purposes of this Amendment
No. 4.

            16. GOVERNING LAW. The validity,  interpretation  and enforcement of
this Agreement and the other Financing  Agreements (except as otherwise provided
therein)  and any dispute  arising out of the  relationship  between the parties
hereto, whether in contract, tort, equity or otherwise, shall be governed by the
internal laws of the State of New York but excluding any principles of conflicts
of law or other rule of law that would cause the  application  of the law of any
jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of New York.

            17. BINDING  EFFECT.  This Amendment No. 4 shall be binding upon and
inure  to the  benefit  of each  of the  parties  hereto  and  their  respective
successors and assigns.

            18.  HEADINGS.  The headings listed herein are for convenience  only
and do not constitute matters to be construed in interpreting this Amendment No.
4.

            19. COUNTERPARTS. This Amendment No. 4 may be executed in any number
of  counterparts,  each of which  shall be an  original,  but all of which taken
together shall  constitute one and the same  agreement.  Delivery of an executed
counterpart of this Amendment No. 4 by  telefacsimile  shall have the same force
and effect as the delivery of an original executed counterpart of this Amendment
No. 4. Any party  delivering an executed  counterpart of this Amendment No. 4 by
telefacsimile  shall also  deliver an  original  executed  counterpart,  but the
failure to do so shall not affect the validity, enforceability or binding effect
of such agreement.

                  [REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

16

IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the parties  hereto have caused this Amendment
No. 4 to be executed on the day and year first above written.

AGENT                                             BORROWERS
- -----                                             ---------

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION, successor by merger to
Congress Financial Corporation, as Agent     HANDY   HARMAN

By: /s/ Terese K. Jacob                      By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
    -----------------------------------         -------------------------
Title: Vice President                        Title: Vice President and CFO

OMG, INC., formerly known as
                                             Olympic Manufacturing Group,
                                             Inc.

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                ---------------------------
LENDERS                                      Title: Vice President and Treasurer
- -------
WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION, successor by merger to
Congress Financial Corporation               CONTINENTAL INDUSTRIES, INC.

By: /s/ Terese K. Jacob                      By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
    -----------------------------------         -------------------------
Title: Vice President                        Title: Vice President and Treasurer

TEXTRON FINANCIAL CORPORATION                MARYLAND SPECIALTY WIRE, INC.

By: /s/ Kurt Kalliomoa                       By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
    -----------------------------------         -------------------------
Title: Senior Account Executive              Title: Vice President and Treasurer

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.                        HANDY   HARMAN TUBE COMPANY,
                                             INC.

By: /s/ Kim Bushey                           By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
    -----------------------------------         -------------------------
Title: SVP                                   Title: Vice President and Treasurer

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

                                             CAMDEL METALS CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

CANFIELD METAL COATING
                                             CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Secretary

MICRO-TUBE FABRICATORS, INC.

By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                             INDIANA TUBE CORPORATION

By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

LUCAS-MILHAUPT, INC.

By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                             HANDY   HARMAN ELECTRONIC
                                             MATERIALS CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                             SUMCO INC.

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

GUARANTORS
                                             ----------

                                             HANDY   HARMAN OF CANADA,
                                             LIMITED

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

ELE CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

ALLOY RING SERVICE INC.

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

DANIEL RADIATOR CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

H H PRODUCTIONS, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

HANDY   HARMAN AUTOMOTIVE
                                             GROUP, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                             HANDY   HARMAN INTERNATIONAL,
                                             LTD.

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

                                             HANDY   HARMAN PERU, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                             KJ-VMI REALTY, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                             PAL-RATH REALTY, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                             PLATINA LABORATORIES, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                             SHEFFIELD STREET CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

SWM, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                             WILLING B WIRE CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                                 -------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer

Exhibit A to
                                                                 Amendment No. 4

                                   Schedule 1

                                   COMMITMENTS
                                   -----------

A.  COMMITMENTS PRIOR TO THE INITIAL EQUIPMENT PURCHASE TERM LOAN REQUEST DATE

Lender                                   Commitment

            Wachovia Bank, National Association               $46,147,586

            Textron Financial Corporation                     $15,828,621

            Bank of America, N.A.                             $23,073,793

                        Total.................................$85,050,000

B.  COMMITMENTS EFFECTIVE UPON THE INITIAL EQUIPMENT PURCHASE TERM LOAN REQUEST
    DATE

Lender                                   Commitment

            Wachovia Bank, National Association               $47,775,367

            Textron Financial Corporation                     $16,386,950

            Bank of America, N.A.                             $23,887,683

                        Total.................................$88,050,000

Schedule 1.32-A

Net Loss Attributed to Maryland Specialty Wire, Inc. for the quarters ended:

March 31, 2004                                      $         0
June 30, 2004                                       $ 1,303,000
September 30, 2004                                  $ 1,901,000
December 31, 2004                                   $ 5,293,000
March 31, 2005                                      $ 3,638,000
June 30, 2005                                       $   750,000
                                                    -----------
Total                                               $12,885,000

Schedule 1.32-B

Charge Attributed to Fairfield Facility for December 31, 2004:  $3,523,000

</EX-4.5>

<EX-4.6>
 6
 ex46to10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 4.6

AMENDMENT NO. 5 TO LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT
                 ----------------------------------------------

            AMENDMENT NO. 5 TO LOAN AND SECURITY  AGREEMENT (this "Amendment No.
5"),  dated as of  September  8, 2005,  by and among Handy   Harman,  a New York
corporation  ("H H"),  OMG,  Inc.,  a Delaware  corporation,  formerly  known as
Olympic  Manufacturing Group, Inc., ("OMG"),  Continental  Industries,  Inc., an
Oklahoma corporation ("Continental"),  Maryland Specialty Wire, Inc., a Delaware
corporation  ("Maryland  Wire"),  Handy   Harman Tube Company,  Inc., a Delaware
corporation  ("H H Tube"),  Camdel Metals  Corporation,  a Delaware  corporation
("Camdel"),   Canfield  Metal  Coating   Corporation,   a  Delaware  corporation
("Canfield"),    Micro-Tube   Fabricators,    Inc.,   a   Delaware   corporation
("Micro-Tube"),  Indiana  Tube  Corporation,  a Delaware  corporation  ("Indiana
Tube"), Lucas-Milhaupt,  Inc., a Wisconsin corporation ("Lucas"), Handy   Harman
Electronic  Materials  Corporation,  a Florida  corporation ("H H  Electronic"),
Sumco  Inc.,  an  Indiana  corporation  ("Sumco"  and  together  with H H,  OMG,
Continental,  Maryland Wire, H H Tube,  Camdel,  Canfield,  Micro-Tube,  Indiana
Tube,   Lucas  and  H H  Electronic,   each   individually,   a  "Borrower"  and
collectively,  "Borrowers"),  Handy   Harman  of  Canada,  Limited,  an  Ontario
corporation ("H H Canada"),  ele Corporation,  a California corporation ("ele"),
Alloy Ring  Service  Inc., a Delaware  corporation  ("Alloy"),  Daniel  Radiator
Corporation, a Texas corporation ("Daniel"),  H H Productions,  Inc., a Delaware
corporation  ("H H  Productions"),  Handy   Harman  Automotive  Group,  Inc.,  a
Delaware  corporation  ("H H  Auto"),  Handy    Harman  International,  Ltd.,  a
Delaware  corporation  ("H H  International"),  Handy    Harman  Peru,  Inc.,  a
Delaware  corporation ("H H Peru"),  KJ-VMI Realty, Inc., a Delaware corporation
("KVR"),  Pal-Rath Realty,  Inc., a Delaware corporation  ("Pal-Rath"),  Platina
Laboratories,  Inc.,  a  Delaware  corporation  ("Platina"),   Sheffield  Street
Corporation,  a Connecticut  corporation  ("Sheffield"),  SWM,  Inc., a Delaware
corporation  ("SWM")  and  Willing B Wire  Corporation,  a Delaware  corporation
("Willing"  and  together  with each of H H  Canada,  ele,  Alloy,  Daniel,  H H
Productions,  H H Auto, H H  International,  H H Peru, KVR,  Pal-Rath,  Platina,
Sheffield  and  SWM,  each   individually,   a  "Guarantor"  and   collectively,
"Guarantors"),   Wachovia  Bank,  National   Association,   a  national  banking
association,  successor  by merger to  Congress  Financial  Corporation,  in its
capacity as agent pursuant to the Loan Agreement (as hereinafter defined) acting
for the  financial  institutions  party  thereto as lenders  (in such  capacity,
together  with  its  successors  and  assigns,   "Agent"),   and  the  financial
institutions party thereto as lenders (collectively, "Lenders").

                              W I T N E S S E T H:
                              - - - - - - - - - --

            WHEREAS, Agent, Lenders,  Borrowers and Guarantors have entered into
financing arrangements pursuant to which Lenders (or Agent on behalf of Lenders)
have  made  and  may  make  loans  and  advances  and  provide  other  financial
accommodations  to Borrowers  as set forth in the Loan and  Security  Agreement,
dated  as of  March  31,  2004,  by and  among  Agent,  Lenders,  Borrowers  and
Guarantors  (as  amended by Consent  and  Amendment  No. 1 to Loan and  Security
Agreement,  dated as of August 31,  2004,  Amendment  No. 2 to Loan and Security
Agreement,  dated as of October 29, 2004,  Amendment  No. 3 to Loan and Security
Agreement,  dated  as of  December  29,  2004  and  Amendment  No. 4 to Loan and
Security  Agreement,  dated as of May 20, 2005, and as the same may hereafter be
further  amended,  modified,   supplemented,   extended,  renewed,  restated  or

replaced,  the  "Loan  Agreement"),  and the  other  agreements,  documents  and
instruments  referred to therein or at any time  executed  and/or  delivered  in
connection therewith or related thereto (all of the foregoing, together with the
Loan  Agreement,  as the same now exist or may  hereafter be amended,  modified,
supplemented,  extended,  renewed,  restated  or  replaced,  being  collectively
referred to herein as the "Financing Agreements");

            WHEREAS,  Borrowers and  Guarantors  have  requested  that Agent and
Lenders agree to amend the Loan  Agreement  to, among other things,  provide for
the making of  additional  Loans,  and Agent and Lenders are willing to agree to
such amendments, subject to the terms and conditions contained herein; and

            WHEREAS, by this Amendment No. 5, Borrowers,  Guarantors,  Agent and
Lenders desire and intend to evidence such consents and amendments;

            NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and the respective
agreements and covenants contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:

            1. DEFINITIONS.

               (a) AMENDMENTS TO DEFINITIONS.

                   (i) The definition of  "Applicable  Margin" in Section 1.8 of
the Loan Agreement is hereby  amended by deleting such  definition and replacing
it with the following:

                    "1.8 'Applicable  Margin' shall mean, at
               any time,  as to the Interest  Rate for Prime
               Rate   Loans  and  the   Interest   Rate  for
               Eurodollar  Rate Loans,  (a) at any time from
               the  Amendment  No. 5  Effective  Date  until
               October 1, 2005 (the  "Adjustment  Date") (i)
               the rate per annum equal to 0.5% with respect
               to all Loans  consisting  of Prime Rate Loans
               and (ii) the  rate per  annum  equal to 2.25%
               with  respect  to  all  Loans  consisting  of
               Eurodollar Rate Loans, and (b) from and after
               the    Adjustment    Date,   the   applicable
               percentage  (on a per annum  basis) set forth
               below  if  the   Quarterly   Average   Excess
               Availability  for the  immediately  preceding
               fiscal  quarter is at or within  the  amounts
               indicated for such percentage:

                                        2

Applicable Prime                           Applicable Eurodollar
                                                     Rate Margin                                     Rate Margin
                                                     -----------                                     -----------
                                                                        Equipment                                 Equipment
                                        Revolving                       Purchase         Revolving    Term        Purchase
      Excess Availability                 Loans       Term Loans        Term Loans       Loans        Loans       Term Loans
      -------------------                 -----       ----------        ----------       -----        -----       ----------

(a)  $12,500,000 or more                     0%             0%                0%           1.75%      1.75%         1.75%

(b) Equal to or greater than              0.25%          0.25%             0.25%           2.00%      2.00%         2.00%
     $10,000,000 but less than
     $12,500,000

(c)  Less than $10,000,000                0.50%          0.50%             0.50%           2.25%      2.25%         2.25%

                        PROVIDED,   THAT,   the   Applicable   Margin  shall  be
                        calculated  and  established  once each  fiscal  quarter
                        (commencing with the fiscal quarter beginning October 1,
                        2005)."

                   (ii) The  definition of  "Borrowing  Base" in Section 1.11 of
the Loan  Agreement  is hereby  amended by  deleting  clause  (a)(i)(2)  of such
Section and replacing it with the following:

                    "(2)  the  sum  of  (x)  the  lesser  of  (i)
                sixty-five (65%) percent  multiplied by the Value
                of the Eligible  Inventory  (other than  Precious
                Metals  Inventory)  of  the  Non-Precious  Metals
                Borrowing Base Parties or (ii) eighty-five  (85%)
                percent of the Net Recovery Percentage multiplied
                by the Value of such  Eligible  Inventory  of the
                Non-Precious Metals Borrowing Base Parties,  plus
                (y) the  lesser of (i) the sum of (A)  sixty-five
                (65%)  percent  multiplied  by the  Value  of the
                Eligible  Inventory  (other than Precious  Metals
                Inventory) of the Precious Metals  Borrowing Base
                Parties and (B) eighty (80%)  percent  multiplied
                by the Value of the Eligible Inventory consisting
                of  Precious   Metals   Inventory   and  Eligible
                Consigned Precious Metals Inventory of Parent and
                the  Precious  Metals  Borrowing  Base Parties or
                (ii)   eighty-five   (85%)  percent  of  the  Net
                Recovery  Percentage  multiplied  by the Value of
                such Eligible  Inventory  and Eligible  Consigned
                Precious  Metals  Inventory  of  Parent  and  the
                Precious Metals Borrowing Base Parties, or".

                   (iii) The definition of "Intercreditor  Agreement" in Section
1.66 of the Loan  Agreement  is hereby  amended by  deleting  "dated on or about
October 29, 2004" and replacing it with "dated on or about September 8, 2005".

                   (iv) The definition of "Tranche B Term Loan Agent" in Section
1.134  of  the  Loan  Agreement  is  hereby  amended  by  deleting  "Canpartners
Investments IV, LLC, a California  limited  liability  company" and replacing it
with "Steel Partners II, L.P., a Delaware  limited  partnership (as successor in
interest to Canpartners Investments IV, LLC)".

                   (v) The  definition  of  "Tranche B Term Loan  Agreement"  in
Section  1.135  of the  Loan  Agreement  is  hereby  amended  by  deleting  such
definition and replacing it with the following:

                                       3

"1.135 'Tranche B Term Loan Agreement' shall mean
                the Loan and Security Agreement,  dated March 31,
                2004,  by and among  Tranche  B Term Loan  Agent,
                Tranche  B  Term  Loan  Lenders,   Borrowers  and
                Guarantors,  as  amended  by  Consent to Loan and
                Security Agreement,  dated as of August 31, 2004,
                the Loan and Security Agreement Amendment,  dated
                as of October 29, 2004,  Amendment  No. 2 to Loan
                and Security Agreement, dated as of May 20, 2005,
                Consent,  dated as of September  8, 2005,  and as
                the  same  may  hereafter  be  further   amended,
                modified,   supplemented,    extended,   renewed,
                restated or replaced,  including  any  agreements
                with respect to Refinancing Indebtedness."

                   (vi) The  definition  of  "Tranche  B Term Loan  Lenders"  in
Section 1.138 of the Loan Agreement is hereby  amended by deleting  "Canpartners
Investments IV, LLC" and replacing it with "Steel Partners II, L.P."

            (b)  ADDITIONAL  DEFINITIONS.  As used herein,  the following  terms
shall have the following  meanings  given to them below,  and the Loan Agreement
and the other  Financing  Agreements are hereby amended to include,  in addition
and not in limitation, the following:

                   (i)  "Amendment No. 5" shall mean Amendment No. 5 to Loan and
Security Agreement by and among Borrowers, Guarantors, Agent and the Lenders, as
the same  now  exists  or may  hereafter  be  amended,  modified,  supplemented,
extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

                   (ii)  "Amendment  No. 5 Effective  Date" shall mean the first
date on which all of the conditions  precedent to the effectiveness of Amendment
No. 5 shall have been satisfied or waived.

                   (iii) "Existing  Camdel Term Loan" shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 2.3(a) hereof.

                   (iv)  "Existing  Camdel  Term Loan  Balance"  shall  have the
meaning set forth in Section 2.3(f) hereof.

                   (v)   "Existing   Camdel  Term  Note"  shall  mean  the  Term
Promissory  Note,  dated March 31, 2004, made by Camdel in favor of Agent in the
original principal amount of $1,641,676, as the same now exists or may hereafter
be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

                   (vi) "Existing Canfield Term Loan" shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 2.3(a) hereof.

                   (vii)  "Existing  Canfield Term Loan Balance"  shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 2.3(g) hereof.

                   (viii)  "Existing  Canfield  Term  Note"  shall mean the Term
Promissory Note, dated March 31, 2004, made by Canfield in favor of Agent in the
original  principal amount of $993,037,  as the same now exists or may hereafter
be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

                                       4

(ix) "Existing  Continental Term Loan" shall have the meaning
set forth in Section 2.3(a) hereof.

                   (x) "Existing  Continental  Term Loan Balance" shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 2.3(c) hereof.

                   (xi)  "Existing  Continental  Term Note"  shall mean the Term
Promissory  Note, dated March 31, 2004, made by Continental in favor of Agent in
the  original  principal  amount of  $1,707,688,  as the same now  exists or may
hereafter be amended,  modified,  supplemented,  extended,  renewed, restated or
replaced.

                   (xii)  "Existing  H H  Electronic  Term Loan"  shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 2.3(a) hereof.

                   (xiii) "Existing H H Electronic Term Loan Balance" shall have
the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(j) hereof.

                   (xiv) "Existing H H Electronic Term Note" shall mean the Term
Promissory  Note, dated March 31, 2004, made by H H Electronic in favor of Agent
in the original  principal  amount of $2,250,951,  as the same now exists or may
hereafter be amended,  modified,  supplemented,  extended,  renewed, restated or
replaced.

                   (xv) "Existing H H Tube Term Loan" shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 2.3(a) hereof.

                   (xvi)  "Existing H H Tube Term Loan  Balance"  shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 2.3(e) hereof.

                   (xvii)  "Existing  H H Tube Term  Note"  shall  mean the Term
Promissory Note, dated March 31, 2004, made by H H Tube in favor of Agent in the
original  principal amount of $542,487,  as the same now exists or may hereafter
be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

                   (xviii)  "Existing  Indiana  Tube Term  Loan"  shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 2.3(a) hereof.

                   (xix)  "Existing  Indiana Tube Term Loan Balance"  shall have
the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(h) hereof.

                   (xx)  "Existing  Indiana  Tube Term Note" shall mean the Term
Promissory Note, dated March 31, 2004, made by Indiana Tube in favor of Agent in
the  original  principal  amount of  $2,156,190,  as the same now  exists or may
hereafter be amended,  modified,  supplemented,  extended,  renewed, restated or
replaced.

                                       5

(xxi)  "Existing  Lucas Term Loan" shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 2.3(a) hereof.

                   (xxii)  "Existing  Lucas  Term Loan  Balance"  shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 2.3(i) hereof.

                   (xxiii)  "Existing  Lucas  Term  Note"  shall  mean  the Term
Promissory  Note,  dated March 31, 2004,  made by Lucas in favor of Agent in the
original principal amount of $1,441,017, as the same now exists or may hereafter
be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

                   (xxiv)  "Existing  Maryland  Wire Term  Loan"  shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 2.3(a) hereof.

                   (xxv)  "Existing  Maryland Wire Term Loan Balance" shall have
the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(d) hereof.

                   (xxvi) "Existing Maryland Wire Term Note" shall mean the Term
Promissory  Note,  dated March 31, 2004, made by Maryland Wire in favor of Agent
in the original  principal  amount of $4,170,038,  as the same now exists or may
hereafter be amended,  modified,  supplemented,  extended,  renewed, restated or
replaced.

                   (xxvii)  "Existing  OMG Term Loan" shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 2.3(a) hereof.

                   (xxviii)  "Existing  OMG Term Loan  Balance"  shall  have the
meaning set forth in Section 2.3(b) hereof.

                   (xxix)   "Existing   OMG  Term  Note"  shall  mean  the  Term
Promissory  Note,  dated  March 31,  2004,  made by OMG in favor of Agent in the
original principal amount of $5,073,365, as the same now exists or may hereafter
be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

                   (xxx)  "Existing  Sumco Term Loan" shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 2.3(a) hereof.

                   (xxxi)  "Existing  Sumco  Term Loan  Balance"  shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 2.3(k) hereof.

                   (xxxii)  "Existing  Sumco  Term  Note"  shall  mean  the Term
Promissory  Note,  dated March 31, 2004,  made by Sumco in favor of Agent in the
original principal amount of $2,173,551, as the same now exists or may hereafter
be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

                   (xxxiii)  "Existing  Term  Loans"  shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 2.3(a) hereof.

                                       6

(xxxiv)  "Restated  Camdel  Term Note" shall mean the Amended
and  Restated  Term  Promissory  Note  made by  Camdel  in favor of Agent in the
original principal amount of $1,623,763, as the same now exists or may hereafter
be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

                   (xxxv)  "Restated  Canfield Term Note" shall mean the Amended
and  Restated  Term  Promissory  Note made by  Canfield in favor of Agent in the
original principal amount of $1,042,295, as the same now exists or may hereafter
be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

                   (xxxvi)  "Restated  Continental  Term  Note"  shall  mean the
Amended and Restated Term  Promissory Note made by Continental in favor of Agent
in the original  principal  amount of $1,843,813,  as the same now exists or may
hereafter be amended,  modified,  supplemented,  extended,  renewed, restated or
replaced.

                   (xxxvii)  "Restated H H Electronic  Term Note" shall mean the
Amended and Restated  Term  Promissory  Note made by H H  Electronic in favor of
Agent in the original principal amount of $2,245,445,  as the same now exists or
may hereafter be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or
replaced.

                   (xxxviii)  "Restated  H H  Tube  Term  Note"  shall  mean the
Amended and Restated Term  Promissory Note made by H H Tube in favor of Agent in
the  original  principal  amount  of  $534,583,  as the same now  exists  or may
hereafter be amended,  modified,  supplemented,  extended,  renewed, restated or
replaced.

                   (xxxix)  "Restated  Indiana  Tube Term  Note"  shall mean the
Amended and Restated Term Promissory Note made by Indiana Tube in favor of Agent
in the original  principal  amount of $2,202,516,  as the same now exists or may
hereafter be amended,  modified,  supplemented,  extended,  renewed, restated or
replaced.

                   (xl)  "Restated  Lucas Term Note"  shall mean the Amended and
Restated  Term  Promissory  Note made by Lucas in favor of Agent in the original
principal  amount of  $1,578,614,  as the same now  exists or may  hereafter  be
amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

                   (xli)  "Restated  Maryland  Wire Term  Note"  shall  mean the
Amended and  Restated  Term  Promissory  Note made by Maryland  Wire in favor of
Agent in the original principal amount of $3,252,001,  as the same now exists or
may hereafter be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or
replaced.

                   (xlii)  "Restated  OMG Term Note"  shall mean the Amended and
Restated  Term  Promissory  Note  made by OMG in favor of Agent in the  original
principal  amount of  $5,773,038,  as the same now  exists or may  hereafter  be
amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

                   (xliii) "Restated Sumco Term Note" shall mean the Amended and
Restated  Term  Promissory  Note made by Sumco in favor of Agent in the original
principal  amount of  $2,053,933,  as the same now  exists or may  hereafter  be
amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

                                       7

(xliv)  "Restated  Term  Notes"  shall  mean  the  collective
reference to the Restated OMG Term Note, the Restated Continental Term Note, the
Restated  Maryland Wire Term Note, the Restated H H Tube Term Note, the Restated
Camdel Term Note,  the Restated  Canfield Term Note,  the Restated  Indiana Tube
Term Note, the Restated  Lucas Term Note, the Restated H H Electronic  Term Note
and the Restated Sumco Term Note; each sometimes individually referred to herein
as a "Restated Term Note".

            (c)  INTERPRETATION.  Capitalized  terms used  herein  which are not
otherwise defined herein shall have the respective  meanings ascribed thereto in
the Loan Agreement.

            2.   TERM LOANS. Section 2.3 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended
by deleting such Section in its entirety and replacing it with the following:

                 "2.3  TERM LOANS.

                       (a) Prior to the date of Amendment  No. 5,
                  subject  to and upon the terms  and  conditions
                  contained  herein,  Lenders  made Term Loans to
                  (i) OMG in the  original  principal  amount  of
                  $5,073,365 (the "Existing OMG Term Loan"), (ii)
                  Continental in the original principal amount of
                  $1,707,688  (the  "Existing   Continental  Term
                  Loan"),  (iii)  Maryland  Wire in the  original
                  principal  amount of $4,170,038  (the "Existing
                  Maryland Wire Term Loan"), (iv) H H Tube in the
                  original  principal  amount  of  $542,487  (the
                  "Existing  H H Tube Term Loan"),  (v) Camdel in
                  the  original  principal  amount of  $1,641,676
                  (the   "Existing   Camdel  Term  Loan"),   (vi)
                  Canfield in the  original  principal  amount of
                  $993,037 (the  "Existing  Canfield Term Loan"),
                  (vii)  Indiana Tube in the  original  principal
                  amount of  $2,156,190  (the  "Existing  Indiana
                  Tube Term Loan"),  (viii) Lucas in the original
                  principal  amount of $1,441,017  (the "Existing
                  Lucas Term Loan"),  (ix) H H  Electronic in the
                  original  principal  amount of $2,250,951  (the
                  "Existing  H H  Electronic  Term Loan") and (x)
                  Sumco  in  the  original  principal  amount  of
                  $2,173,551 (the "Existing Sumco Term Loan" and,
                  together  with the Existing OMG Term Loan,  the
                  Existing  Continental  Term Loan,  the Existing
                  Maryland Wire Term Loan,  the Existing H H Tube
                  Term Loan,  the Existing  Camdel Term Loan, the
                  Existing   Canfield  Term  Loan,  the  Existing
                  Indiana Tube Term Loan, the Existing Lucas Term
                  Loan and the Existing H H Electronic Term Loan,
                  the "Existing Term Loans").

                       (b) OMG hereby acknowledges,  confirms and
                  agrees that,  as of the date of Amendment No. 5
                  and   immediately   before   giving  effect  to
                  Amendment No. 5, OMG is indebted to each Lender

                                8

for the  Obligations  evidenced by the Existing
                  OMG Term Note in the principal  amount equal to
                  $3,907,862   (the   "Existing   OMG  Term  Loan
                  Balance"),   plus  accrued  interest  and  fees
                  thereon. On the Amendment No. 5 Effective Date,
                  subject to the terms and  conditions  contained
                  herein and in the other  Financing  Agreements,
                  each Lender agrees to fund an  additional  Term
                  Loan to OMG in the  original  principal  amount
                  equal  to  such  Lender's  Pro  Rata  Share  of
                  $1,865,176  which,  together  with the Existing
                  OMG Term Loan  Balance,  shall be  consolidated
                  and   evidenced  by  and  be  due  and  payable
                  pursuant to the terms of the  Restated OMG Term
                  Note.

                       (c)   Continental   hereby   acknowledges,
                  confirms  and  agrees  that,  as of the date of
                  Amendment No. 5 and  immediately  before giving
                  effect  to  Amendment  No.  5,  Continental  is
                  indebted  to each  Lender  for the  Obligations
                  evidenced by the Existing Continental Term Note
                  in the  principal  amount  equal to  $1,315,379
                  (the "Existing Continental Term Loan Balance"),
                  plus accrued interest and fees thereon.  On the
                  Amendment No. 5 Effective Date,  subject to the
                  terms and  conditions  contained  herein and in
                  the other  Financing  Agreements,  each  Lender
                  agrees  to  fund  an  additional  Term  Loan to
                  Continental  in the original  principal  amount
                  equal  to  such  Lender's  Pro  Rata  Share  of
                  $528,434  which,  together  with  the  Existing
                  Continental   Term  Loan   Balance,   shall  be
                  consolidated  and  evidenced  by and be due and
                  payable  pursuant to the terms of the  Restated
                  Continental Term Note.

                       (d)  Maryland  Wire  hereby  acknowledges,
                  confirms  and  agrees  that,  as of the date of
                  Amendment No. 5 and  immediately  before giving
                  effect to  Amendment  No. 5,  Maryland  Wire is
                  indebted  to each  Lender  for the  Obligations
                  evidenced  by the Existing  Maryland  Wire Term
                  Note  in  the   principal   amount   equal   to
                  $2,690,642  (the  "Existing  Maryland Wire Term
                  Loan Balance"),  plus accrued interest and fees
                  thereon. On the Amendment No. 5 Effective Date,
                  subject to the terms and  conditions  contained
                  herein and in the other  Financing  Agreements,
                  each Lender agrees to fund an  additional  Term
                  Loan to Maryland Wire in the original principal
                  amount equal to such Lender's Pro Rata Share of
                  $561,359  which,  together  with  the  Existing
                  Maryland  Wire  Term  Loan  Balance,  shall  be
                  consolidated  and  evidenced  by and be due and
                  payable  pursuant to the terms of the  Restated
                  Maryland Wire Term Note.

                       (e) H H Tube hereby acknowledges, confirms
                  and agrees  that,  as of the date of  Amendment
                  No. 5 and  immediately  before giving effect to
                  Amendment  No. 5, H H Tube is  indebted to each
                  Lender  for the  Obligations  evidenced  by the
                  Existing  H H Tube Term  Note in the  principal
                  amount  equal to $417,860  (the  "Existing  H H

                                9

Tube Term Loan Balance"), plus accrued interest
                  and  fees  thereon.  On  the  Amendment  No.  5
                  Effective  Date,   subject  to  the  terms  and
                  conditions  contained  herein  and in the other
                  Financing  Agreements,  each  Lender  agrees to
                  fund an additional Term Loan to H H Tube in the
                  original   principal   amount   equal  to  such
                  Lender's  Pro  Rata  Share of  $116,723  which,
                  together  with the  Existing H H Tube Term Loan
                  Balance, shall be consolidated and evidenced by
                  and be due and payable pursuant to the terms of
                  the Restated H H Tube Term Note.

                       (f) Camdel hereby  acknowledges,  confirms
                  and agrees  that,  as of the date of  Amendment
                  No. 5 and  immediately  before giving effect to
                  Amendment  No. 5,  Camdel is  indebted  to each
                  Lender  for the  Obligations  evidenced  by the
                  Existing  Camdel  Term  Note  in the  principal
                  amount  equal  to  $1,264,531   (the  "Existing
                  Camdel  Term  Loan   Balance"),   plus  accrued
                  interest and fees thereon. On the Amendment No.
                  5  Effective  Date,  subject  to the  terms and
                  conditions  contained  herein  and in the other
                  Financing  Agreements,  each  Lender  agrees to
                  fund an  additional  Term Loan to Camdel in the
                  original   principal   amount   equal  to  such
                  Lender's  Pro  Rata  Share of  $359,232  which,
                  together  with the  Existing  Camdel  Term Loan
                  Balance, shall be consolidated and evidenced by
                  and be due and payable pursuant to the terms of
                  the Restated Camdel Term Note.

                       (g) Canfield hereby acknowledges, confirms
                  and agrees  that,  as of the date of  Amendment
                  No. 5 and  immediately  before giving effect to
                  Amendment  No. 5,  Canfield is indebted to each
                  Lender  for the  Obligations  evidenced  by the
                  Existing  Canfield  Term Note in the  principal
                  amount   equal  to  $764,914   (the   "Existing
                  Canfield  Term  Loan  Balance"),  plus  accrued
                  interest and fees thereon. On the Amendment No.
                  5  Effective  Date,  subject  to the  terms and
                  conditions  contained  herein  and in the other
                  Financing  Agreements,  each  Lender  agrees to
                  fund an additional Term Loan to Canfield in the
                  original   principal   amount   equal  to  such
                  Lender's  Pro  Rata  Share of  $277,381  which,
                  together  with the Existing  Canfield Term Loan
                  Balance, shall be consolidated and evidenced by
                  and be due and payable pursuant to the terms of
                  the Restated Canfield Term Note.

                       (h)  Indiana  Tube  hereby   acknowledges,
                  confirms  and  agrees  that,  as of the date of
                  Amendment No. 5 and  immediately  before giving
                  effect  to  Amendment  No. 5,  Indiana  Tube is
                  indebted  to each  Lender  for the  Obligations
                  evidenced  by the  Existing  Indiana  Tube Term
                  Note  in  the   principal   amount   equal   to
                  $1,505,418  (the  "Existing  Indiana  Tube Term
                  Loan Balance"),  plus accrued interest and fees
                  thereon. On the Amendment No. 5 Effective Date,

                               10

subject to the terms and  conditions  contained
                  herein and in the other  Financing  Agreements,
                  each Lender agrees to fund an  additional  Term
                  Loan to Indiana Tube in the original  principal
                  amount equal to such Lender's Pro Rata Share of
                  $697,098  which,  together  with  the  Existing
                  Indiana  Tube  Term  Loan  Balance,   shall  be
                  consolidated  and  evidenced  by and be due and
                  payable  pursuant to the terms of the  Restated
                  Indiana Tube Term Note.

                       (i) Lucas  hereby  acknowledges,  confirms
                  and agrees  that,  as of the date of  Amendment
                  No. 5 and  immediately  before giving effect to
                  Amendment  No.  5,  Lucas is  indebted  to each
                  Lender  for the  Obligations  evidenced  by the
                  Existing  Lucas  Term  Note  in  the  principal
                  amount  equal to  $1,109,  976  (the  "Existing
                  Lucas  Term  Loan   Balance"),   plus   accrued
                  interest and fees thereon. On the Amendment No.
                  5  Effective  Date,  subject  to the  terms and
                  conditions  contained  herein  and in the other
                  Financing  Agreements,  each  Lender  agrees to
                  fund an  additional  Term  Loan to Lucas in the
                  original   principal   amount   equal  to  such
                  Lender's  Pro  Rata  Share of  $468,638  which,
                  together  with the  Existing  Lucas  Term  Loan
                  Balance, shall be consolidated and evidenced by
                  and be due and payable pursuant to the terms of
                  the Restated Lucas Term Note.

                       (j) H H  Electronic  hereby  acknowledges,
                  confirms  and  agrees  that,  as of the date of
                  Amendment No. 5 and  immediately  before giving
                  effect to Amendment  No. 5, H H  Electronic  is
                  indebted  to each  Lender  for the  Obligations
                  evidenced by the Existing H H  Electronic  Term
                  Note  in  the   principal   amount   equal   to
                  $1,733,845  (the "Existing H H Electronic  Term
                  Loan Balance"),  plus accrued interest and fees
                  thereon. On the Amendment No. 5 Effective Date,
                  subject to the terms and  conditions  contained
                  herein and in the other  Financing  Agreements,
                  each Lender agrees to fund an  additional  Term
                  Loan  to  H H   Electronic   in  the   original
                  principal  amount  equal to such  Lender's  Pro
                  Rata Share of $511,600 which, together with the
                  Existing  H H  Electronic  Term  Loan  Balance,
                  shall be  consolidated  and evidenced by and be
                  due and  payable  pursuant  to the terms of the
                  Restated H H Electronic Term Note.

                       (k) Sumco  hereby  acknowledges,  confirms
                  and agrees  that,  as of the date of  Amendment
                  No. 5 and  immediately  before giving effect to
                  Amendment  No.  5,  Sumco is  indebted  to each
                  Lender  for the  Obligations  evidenced  by the
                  Existing  Sumco  Term  Note  in  the  principal
                  amount equal to $1,674,227 (the "Existing Sumco
                  Term Loan Balance"),  plus accrued interest and
                  fees thereon.  On the Amendment No. 5 Effective

                               11

Date,  subject  to  the  terms  and  conditions
                  contained  herein  and in the  other  Financing
                  Agreements,  each  Lender  agrees  to  fund  an
                  additional  Term Loan to Sumco in the  original
                  principal  amount  equal to such  Lender's  Pro
                  Rata Share of $379,706 which, together with the
                  Existing  Sumco  Term  Loan  Balance,  shall be
                  consolidated  and  evidenced  by and be due and
                  payable  pursuant to the terms of the  Restated
                  Sumco Term Note.

                       (l) Each of the  Existing  Term  Loans (as
                  consolidated  with the  additional  Term  Loans
                  made in accordance with Sections 2.3(b) through
                  (k) hereof) is (i) evidenced by a Restated Term
                  Note in the original  principal  amount thereof
                  (as  so   consolidated),   duly   executed  and
                  delivered by the applicable  Borrower,  (ii) to
                  be repaid,  together  with  interest  and other
                  amounts,  in  accordance  with this  Agreement,
                  such Restated Term Note and the other Financing
                  Agreements and (iii) secured by the Collateral.
                  The  principal  amount of each of the  Existing
                  Term Loans (as consolidated with the additional
                  Term Loans  made in  accordance  with  Sections
                  2.3(b)  through (k) hereof)  shall be repaid in
                  seventy   four   (74)    consecutive    monthly
                  installments  (or earlier as  provided  herein)
                  payable   on  the  first  day  of  each   month
                  commencing October 1, 2005; PROVIDED, THAT, the
                  entire unpaid principal amount of each Existing
                  Term Loan (as so consolidated)  and all accrued
                  and unpaid  interest  thereon  shall be due and
                  payable upon the effective  date of termination
                  or non-renewal of the Financing Agreements. The
                  amount of each such monthly  installment  shall
                  be  equal  to  $78,014   with  respect  to  the
                  Existing Term Loan (as so consolidated) to OMG,
                  $24,916 with respect to the Existing  Term Loan
                  (as so  consolidated)  to Continental,  $43,946
                  with respect to the  Existing  Term Loan (as so
                  consolidated)  to  Maryland  Wire,  $7,224 with
                  respect  to  the  Existing  Term  Loan  (as  so
                  consolidated) to H H Tube, $21,943 with respect
                  to the Existing Term Loan (as so  consolidated)
                  to Camdel, $14,085 with respect to the Existing
                  Term  Loan (as so  consolidated)  to  Canfield,
                  $29,764 with respect to the Existing  Term Loan
                  (as so consolidated)  to Indiana Tube,  $21,333
                  with respect to the  Existing  Term Loan (as so
                  consolidated) to Lucas, $30,344 with respect to
                  the Existing Term Loan (as so  consolidated) to
                  H H  Electronic and $27,756 with respect to the
                  Existing  Term  Loan  (as so  consolidated)  to
                  Sumco.

                       (m)  The  Restated  OMG  Term  Note  shall
                  supercede,   replace,  amend  and  restate  the
                  Existing   OMG   Term   Note.    The   Restated
                  Continental Term Note shall supercede, replace,
                  amend and restate the Existing Continental Term
                  Note.  The  Restated  Maryland  Wire  Term Note
                  shall supercede, replace, amend and restate the
                  Existing  Maryland Wire Term Note. The Restated
                  H H Tube Term Note  shall  supercede,  replace,

                               12

amend and  restate the  Existing  H H Tube Term
                  Note.  The  Restated  Camdel  Term  Note  shall
                  supercede,   replace,  amend  and  restate  the
                  Existing   Camdel  Term  Note.   The   Restated
                  Canfield  Term Note shall  supercede,  replace,
                  amend and restate the  Existing  Canfield  Term
                  Note. The Restated Indiana Tube Term Note shall
                  supercede,   replace,  amend  and  restate  the
                  Existing  Indiana Tube Term Note.  The Restated
                  Lucas Term Note shall supercede, replace, amend
                  and restate the Existing  Lucas Term Note.  The
                  Restated   H H   Electronic   Term  Note  shall
                  supercede,   replace,  amend  and  restate  the
                  Existing H H Electronic Term Note. The Restated
                  Sumco Term Note shall supercede, replace, amend
                  and restate the Existing  Sumco Term Note.  The
                  amendment and restatement  contained in each of
                  the  Restated  Term  Notes  shall  not,  in any
                  manner, be construed to constitute  payment of,
                  or  impair,  limit,  cancel or  extinguish,  or
                  constitute a novation in respect of, any of the
                  Obligations  evidenced by or arising  under the
                  Financing   Agreements,   and  the   liens  and
                  security  interests  securing such  Obligations
                  shall not in any manner be  impaired,  limited,
                  terminated, waived or released."

       3.  INDEBTEDNESS.  Section 9.9(f) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended
by  deleting  the phrase "as in effect on October  29,  2004" from each place it
appears in such Section and  replacing it with "as in effect on the date hereof,
as amended by Consent  to Loan and  Security  Agreement,  dated as of August 31,
2004, Loan and Security Agreement  Amendment,  October 29, 2004, Amendment No. 2
to Loan and Security Agreement,  dated as of May 20, 2005 and Consent,  dated as
of September 8, 2005".

       4. NEW  INTERCREDITOR  AGREEMENT.  Each  Lender (a)  authorizes  Agent to
terminate  the  Intercreditor  Agreement,  dated as of October 29, 2004,  by and
between Agent and  Canpartners  Investments  IV, LLC, as agent,  (b)  authorizes
Agent to enter  into the  Intercreditor  Agreement,  dated on or about  the date
hereof (the "New Steel Partners Intercreditor Agreement"),  by and between Agent
and Steel  Partners II, L.P., as agent for the Tranche B Term Loan Lenders,  and
(iii) agrees that it will be bound (as a Lender) by the terms and  conditions of
the New Steel Partners Intercreditor Agreement.

       5.  AMENDMENT FEE. In addition to all other fees,  charges,  interest and
expenses payable by any Borrower or Guarantor to Agent or Lenders under the Loan
Agreement and the other Financing Agreements, Borrowers and Guarantors shall pay
to Agent  pro rata for the  account  of  Lenders  (in such  manner  as Agent may
agree),  contemporaneously  with the  effectiveness  of this Amendment No. 5, an
amendment  fee in the  amount of  $60,000,  which fee shall be fully  earned and
nonrefundable  as of the date  hereof and may be charged to any loan  account of
Borrowers.

       6. REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS. Each Borrower and Guarantor
hereby  represents,  warrants and  covenants to Agent and Lenders the  following
(which shall survive the  execution  and delivery of this  Amendment No. 5), the

                                       13

truth and  accuracy of which are a  continuing  condition of the making of Loans
and providing Letter of Credit Accommodations to Borrowers:

            (a) This  Amendment No. 5 and each other  agreement or instrument to
be executed and  delivered by Borrowers and  Guarantors  in connection  herewith
(collectively,  together with this Amendment No. 5, the  "Amendment  Documents")
have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by all necessary action on the
part of each of the Borrowers and Guarantors which is a party hereto and thereto
and, if necessary, their respective stockholders and is in full force and effect
as of the  date  hereof  and  the  agreements  and  obligations  of  each of the
Borrowers and  Guarantors  contained  herein and therein  constitute  the legal,
valid  and  binding  obligations  of  each  of  the  Borrowers  and  Guarantors,
enforceable   against  them  in   accordance   with  their   terms,   except  as
enforceability is limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization,  moratorium
or other laws relating to or affecting  the  enforcement  of  creditors'  rights
generally and except to the extent that  availability  of the remedy of specific
performance  or  injunctive  relief is  subject to the  discretion  of the court
before which any proceeding therefor may be brought.

            (b) The execution,  delivery and performance of this Amendment No. 5
and the  other  Amendment  Documents  (a) are all  within  each  Borrower's  and
Guarantor's  corporate or limited  liability  company  powers and (b) are not in
contravention  of law or the terms of any Borrower's or Guarantor's  certificate
or articles of incorporation, by laws, or other organizational documentation, or
any indenture,  agreement or undertaking to which any Borrower or Guarantor is a
party or by which any Borrower or Guarantor or its property are bound.

            (c) No  Default or Event of Default  exists or has  occurred  and is
continuing.

            (d) All of the  representations and warranties set forth in the Loan
Agreement and the other Financing  Agreements,  each as amended hereby, are true
and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof, as if made on
the date  hereof,  except to the extent any such  representation  or warranty is
made as of a specified date, in which case such representation or warranty shall
have been true and correct as of such date.

            (e) Each of the Tranche B Amendment  (as defined  below) and the New
Steel Partners Intercreditor Agreement has been executed and delivered by all of
the parties thereto and is in full force and effect.

            (f) All of the  Tranche  B Term Loan  Debt (as  defined  in the Loan
Agreement  immediately  before giving  effect to this  Amendment No. 5) has been
assigned to Steel Partners II, L.P.

            (g)  Canpartners  Investments IV, LLC has resigned as Tranche B Term
Loan Agent, and Steel Partners II, L.P. is the Tranche B Term Loan Agent.

       7. CONDITIONS  PRECEDENT.  The provisions  contained herein shall only be
effective upon the satisfaction of each of the following conditions precedent in
a manner satisfactory to Agent:

                                       14

(a) Agent shall have received this Amendment No. 5, duly authorized,
executed and delivered by Borrowers, Guarantors and Lenders;

            (b)  Agent  shall  have  received  a true  and  correct  copy of any
consent, waiver or approval to or of this Amendment No. 5 or any other Amendment
Documents  which any  Borrower or Guarantor is required to obtain from any other
Person,  and such  consent,  waiver  or  approval  shall  in form and  substance
satisfactory to Agent;

            (c) no Default or Event of Default  shall exist or have occurred and
be continuing;

            (d)  Agent  shall  have  received  the   Assignment  and  Acceptance
Agreement, dated as of September 8, 2005, by and between Canpartners Investments
IV, LLC and Steel  Partners  II, L.P.,  in form and  substance  satisfactory  to
Agent, duly authorized, executed and delivered by the parties thereto;

            (e)  Agent  shall  have  received  a letter  agreement,  in form and
substance  satisfactory to Agent,  which terminates the Intercreditor  Agreement
(as  defined in the Loan  Agreement  immediately  before  giving  effect to this
Amendment  No. 5),  duly  authorized,  executed  and  delivered  by  Canpartners
Investments IV, LLC, as agent, and acknowledged by Borrowers and Guarantors;

            (f) Agent shall have received the New Steel  Partners  Intercreditor
Agreement,  in form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  Agent,  duly  authorized,
executed and  delivered by Agent and Steel  Partners II, L.P.,  as agent for the
Tranche B Term Loan Lenders and acknowledged by Borrowers and Guarantors;

            (g) Agent  shall have  received an  amendment  to the Tranche B Term
Loan Agreement (the "Tranche B Amendment"),  in form and substance  satisfactory
to  Agent,  duly  authorized,  executed  and  delivered  by each of the  parties
thereto, which Tranche B Amendment shall be in full force and effect;

            (h) Agent shall have received  each of the Restated  Term Notes,  in
form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  Agent,  duly  authorized,  executed  and
delivered by the applicable Borrower party thereto; and

            (i) Agent shall have received, in form and substance satisfactory to
Agent, a Secretary's  Certificate  from each Borrower and Guarantor with respect
to, among other things,  resolutions  of the Board of Directors of such Borrower
and Guarantor  evidencing the adoption and subsistence of resolutions  approving
the execution,  delivery and  performance by such Borrower and Guarantor of this
Amendment and the other Amendment Documents.

       8. EFFECT OF THIS AGREEMENT. Except as expressly amended pursuant hereto,
no other changes or  modifications  to the Financing  Agreements are intended or
implied,  and,  in all other  respects,  the  Financing  Agreements  are  hereby
specifically  ratified,  restated and confirmed by all parties  hereto as of the
effective date hereof. To the extent that any provision of the Loan Agreement or
any of the other Financing  Agreements are  inconsistent  with the provisions of
this Amendment No. 5, the  provisions of this Amendment No. 5 shall control.

                                       15

9. FURTHER ASSURANCES. Borrowers and Guarantors shall execute and deliver
such additional documents and take such additional action as may be requested by
Agent to effectuate the provisions and purposes of this Amendment No. 5.

       10. GOVERNING LAW. The validity,  interpretation  and enforcement of this
Agreement  and the other  Financing  Agreements  (except as  otherwise  provided
therein)  and any dispute  arising out of the  relationship  between the parties
hereto, whether in contract, tort, equity or otherwise, shall be governed by the
internal laws of the State of New York but excluding any principles of conflicts
of law or other rule of law that would cause the  application  of the law of any
jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of New York.

       11. BINDING EFFECT.  This Amendment No. 5 shall be binding upon and inure
to the benefit of each of the parties hereto and their respective successors and
assigns.

       12. HEADINGS.  The headings listed herein are for convenience only and do
not constitute matters to be construed in interpreting this Amendment No. 5.

       13.  COUNTERPARTS.  This Amendment No. 5 may be executed in any number of
counterparts,  each of  which  shall  be an  original,  but all of  which  taken
together shall  constitute one and the same  agreement.  Delivery of an executed
counterpart of this Amendment No. 5 by telefacsimile or other electronic  method
of  transmission  shall  have the same force and  effect as the  delivery  of an
original  executed  counterpart of this Amendment No. 5. Any party delivering an
executed  counterpart  of  this  Amendment  No.  5  by  telefacsimile  or  other
electronic  method of  transmission  shall  also  deliver an  original  executed
counterpart,   but  the  failure  to  do  so  shall  not  affect  the  validity,
enforceability or binding effect of such agreement.

                  [REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

16

IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the parties  hereto have caused this Amendment
No. 5 to be executed on the day and year first above written.

AGENT                                          BORROWERS
- -----                                          ---------

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION, successor by merger to
Congress Financial Corporation, as Agent       HANDY   HARMAN

By: /s/ Thomas Grabosky                        By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelley
    -----------------------------------            -----------------------------
Title: Director                                Title: Vic President - CFO

OMG, INC., formerly known as
                                               Olympic Manufacturing Group, Inc.

                                               By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                   -----------------------------
LENDERS                                        Title: Vice President
- -------
WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION, successor by merger to
Congress Financial Corporation                 CONTINENTAL INDUSTRIES, INC.

By: /s/ Thomas Grabosky                        By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
   ------------------------------------           ------------------------------
Title: Director                                Title: Vice President

TEXTRON FINANCIAL CORPORATION                  MARYLAND SPECIALTY WIRE, INC.

By: /s/ Kurt Kalliomoa                         By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
   ------------------------------------           ------------------------------
Title: Sr. Account Executive                   Title: Vice President

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.                          HANDY   HARMAN TUBE COMPANY, INC.

By: /s/ Kim Bushey                             By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
   ------------------------------------           ------------------------------
Title: S.V.P.                                  Title: Vice President

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

                                              CAMDEL METALS CORPORATION

                                               By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

CANFIELD METAL COATING CORPORATION

                                               By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

                                              MICRO-TUBE FABRICATORS, INC.

                                               By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

                                              INDIANA TUBE CORPORATION

                                               By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

LUCAS-MILHAUPT, INC.

                                               By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

                                              HANDY   HARMAN ELECTRONIC
                                              MATERIALS CORPORATION

                                               By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

                                              SUMCO INC.

                                               By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

GUARANTORS
                                              ----------

                                              HANDY   HARMAN OF CANADA, LIMITED

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

ELE CORPORATION

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

ALLOY RING SERVICE INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

DANIEL RADIATOR CORPORATION

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

H H PRODUCTIONS, INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

HANDY   HARMAN AUTOMOTIVE GROUP,
                                              INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

HANDY   HARMAN INTERNATIONAL, LTD.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

                                              HANDY   HARMAN PERU, INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

                                              KJ-VMI REALTY, INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

                                              PAL-RATH REALTY, INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

PLATINA LABORATORIES, INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

SHEFFIELD STREET CORPORATION

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

                                              SWM, INC.

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

                                              WILLING B WIRE CORPORATION

By: /s/ Dennis C. Kelly
                                                  ------------------------------
                                               Title: Vice President

</EX-4.6>

<EX-4.7>
 7
 ex47to10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 4.7
                                                                                                                                                 [Execution]

            AMENDMENT NO. 6 AND WAIVER TO LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT

     AMENDMENT NO. 6 AND WAIVER TO LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT (this "Amendment
No. 6"), dated as of December 29, 2005, by and among Handy   Harman, a New York
corporation ("H H"), OMG, Inc., a Delaware corporation, ("OMG"), Continental
Industries, Inc., an Oklahoma corporation ("Continental"), Maryland Specialty
Wire, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Maryland Wire"), Handy   Harman Tube
Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("H H Tube"), Camdel Metals Corporation, a
Delaware corporation ("Camdel"), Canfield Metal Coating Corporation, a Delaware
corporation ("Canfield"), Micro-Tube Fabricators, Inc., a Delaware corporation
("Micro-Tube"), Indiana Tube Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Indiana
Tube"), Lucas-Milhaupt, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation ("Lucas"), Handy   Harman
Electronic Materials Corporation, a Florida corporation ("H H Electronic"),
Sumco Inc., an Indiana corporation ("Sumco" and together with H H, OMG,
Continental, Maryland Wire, H H Tube, Camdel, Canfield, Micro-Tube, Indiana
Tube, Lucas and H H Electronic, each individually, a "Borrower" and
collectively, "Borrowers"), Handy   Harman of Canada, Limited, an Ontario
corporation ("H H Canada"), ele Corporation, a California corporation ("ele"),
Alloy Ring Service Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Alloy"), Daniel Radiator
Corporation, a Texas corporation ("Daniel"), H H Productions, Inc., a Delaware
corporation ("H H Productions"), Handy   Harman Automotive Group, Inc., a
Delaware corporation ("H H Auto"), Handy   Harman International, Ltd., a
Delaware corporation ("H H International"), Handy   Harman Peru, Inc., a
Delaware corporation ("H H Peru"), KJ-VMI Realty, Inc., a Delaware corporation
("KVR"), Pal-Rath Realty, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Pal-Rath"), Platina
Laboratories, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Platina"), Sheffield Street
Corporation, a Connecticut corporation ("Sheffield"), SWM, Inc., a Delaware
corporation ("SWM") and Willing B Wire Corporation, a Delaware corporation
("Willing" and together with each of H H Canada, ele, Alloy, Daniel, H H
Productions, H H Auto, H H International, H H Peru, KVR, Pal-Rath, Platina,
Sheffield and SWM, each individually, a "Guarantor" and collectively,
"Guarantors"), Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking
association, in its capacity as agent pursuant to the Loan Agreement (as
hereinafter defined) acting for the financial institutions party thereto as
lenders (in such capacity, together with its successors and assigns, "Agent"),
and the financial institutions party thereto as lenders (collectively,
"Lenders"). Capitalized terms used herein which are not otherwise defined herein
shall have the respective meanings ascribed thereto in the Loan Agreement.

                              W I T N E S S E T H:

     WHEREAS, Agent, Lenders, Borrowers and Guarantors have entered into
financing arrangements pursuant to which Lenders (or Agent on behalf of Lenders)
have made and may make loans and advances and provide other financial
accommodations to Borrowers as set forth in the Loan and Security Agreement,
dated as of March 31, 2004, by and among Agent, Lenders, Borrowers and
Guarantors (as amended by Consent and Amendment No. 1 to Loan and Security
Agreement, dated as of August 31, 2004, Amendment No. 2 to Loan and Security
Agreement, dated as of October 29, 2004, Amendment No. 3 to Loan and Security
Agreement, dated as of December 29, 2004, Amendment No. 4 to Loan and Security
Agreement, dated as of May 20, 2005 and Amendment No. 5 to Loan and Security

Agreement, dated as of September 8, 2005, and as the same may hereafter be
further amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or
replaced, the "Loan Agreement"), and the other agreements, documents and
instruments referred to therein or at any time executed and/or delivered in
connection therewith or related thereto (all of the foregoing, together with the
Loan Agreement, as the same now exist or may hereafter be amended, modified,
supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced, being collectively
referred to herein as the "Financing Agreements");

     WHEREAS, Borrowers and Guarantors have requested that Agent and Lenders
agree to (a) waive certain defaults under the Loan Agreement and (b) make
certain related amendments to the Loan Agreement, and Agent and Lenders are
willing to agree to such amendments and to grant such waivers, subject to the
terms and conditions contained herein; and

     WHEREAS, by this Amendment No. 6, Borrowers, Guarantors, Agent and Lenders
desire and intend to evidence such consents and amendments;

     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and the respective
agreements and covenants contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:

     1.   AMENDMENT TO DEFINITION. The definition of "Borrowing Base" in Section
1.11 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by deleting "or" at the end of
clause (a)(i)(B)(2) of such Section and replacing it with the following:

          "PLUS (C) (i) from the Amendment No. 6 Effective Date
          through and including January 31, 2006, $3,500,000 and
          (ii) after January 31, 2006, $0, or".

     2.   ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS. As used herein, the following terms shall have
the following meanings given to them below, and the Loan Agreement and the other
Financing Agreements are hereby amended to include, in addition and not in
limitation, the following:

          (a)  "Amendment No. 6" shall mean Amendment No. 6 and Waiver to Loan
and Security Agreement by and among Borrowers, Guarantors, Agent and the
Lenders, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, modified,
supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

          (b)  "Amendment No. 6 Effective Date" shall mean the first date on
which all of the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of Amendment No. 6
shall have been satisfied or waived.

     3.   AMENDMENTS.

          (a)  Section 9.9(f)(i) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting "$71,000,000" and replacing it with "$81,000,000".

          (b)  Section 9.17(a) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting such Section and replacing it with the following:

                                       2

"(a) EBITDA. Parent and its Subsidiaries shall not
          permit EBITDA of Parent and its Subsidiaries, on a
          consolidated basis, for each period set forth below to
          be less than the amount set forth below opposite such
          period:

                    Period                       Minimum EBITDA
                    ------                       --------------

          12 months ending
          December 31, 2005                       $22,500,000

          3 months ending March 31,
          2006                                    $5,000,000

          6 months ending June 30, 2006           $13,000,000

          9 months ending
          September 30, 2006                      $20,000,000

          12 months ending December
          31, 2006 and on the last day of
          each fiscal quarter thereafter          $27,000,000"

          (c)  Section 9.17(b) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting such Section and replacing it with the following:

               "(b) FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO. Parent and its
          Subsidiaries shall not permit the Fixed Charge Coverage
          Ratio for each period set forth below to be less than
          the ratio set forth below opposite such period:

                                                       Minimum Fixed
                    Period                         Charge Coverage Ratio
                    ------                         ---------------------

          3 months ending March 31,
          2006                                         0.75 to 1

          6 months ending June 30, 2006                   1 to 1

          9 months ending
          September 30, 2006                              1 to 1

          12 months ending
          December 31, 2006 and on
          the last day of each fiscal

3

Minimum Fixed
                    Period                         Charge Coverage Ratio
                    ------                         ---------------------

          quarter thereafter                              1 to 1"

(d)  Section 9.17(c) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting such Section and replacing it with the following:

               "(c) MAXIMUM CAPITAL EXPENDITURES. Parent and it
          Subsidiaries shall not, directly or indirectly, make or
          commit to make (whether through purchase, capital lease
          or otherwise) Capital Expenditures for each period set
          forth below in an amount in excess of the amount set
          forth below opposite such period:

                                                             Maximum
                    PERIOD                           CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

          3 months ending March 31, 2006                  $3,000,000

          6 months ending June 30, 2006                   $6,000,000

          9 months ending
          September 30, 2006                              $9,000,000

          12 months ending
          December 31, 2006 and on the
          last day of each fiscal quarter
          thereafter                                     $12,000,000"

          (e)  Section 9.17(d) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting such Section in its entirety and replacing it with the following: "(d)
[Intentionally Deleted]".

     4.   WAIVER OF EVENTS OF DEFAULT.

          (a)  Subject to the terms and conditions contained herein, Agent and
Required Lenders hereby waive the following Events of Default arising under
Section 10.1(a)(iii) of the Loan Agreement (collectively, the "Existing
Defaults"):

               (i)   the Event of Default arising as a result of the failure of
Parent and its Subsidiaries to maintain minimum EBITDA for the fiscal quarter
ending September 30, 2005 as required under Section 9.17(a) of the Loan
Agreement;

               (ii)  the Event of Default arising as a result of the failure of
Parent and its Subsidiaries to maintain the minimum Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
for the 9 month period ending September 30, 2005 as required under Section
9.17(b) of the Loan Agreement; and

4

(iii) the Event of Default arising as a result of the failure of
Parent and its Subsidiaries to maintain the maximum Leverage Ratio with respect
to the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2005 as required under Section
9.17(d) of the Loan Agreement.

          (b)  Agent and Lenders have not waived and are not by this Amendment
No. 6 agreement waiving, and have no present intention of waiving, any other
Events of Default, which may have occurred prior to the date hereof, or may be
continuing on the date hereof or any Event of Default which may occur after the
date hereof, other than the Existing Defaults, whether the same or similar to
the Existing Defaults or otherwise. Agent and Lenders reserve the right, in
their discretion, to exercise any or all of its or their rights and remedies
arising under the Financing Agreements, applicable law or otherwise, as a result
of any other Events of Default which may have occurred prior to the date hereof,
or are continuing on the date hereof, or any Event of Default which may occur
after the date hereof, whether the same or similar to the Existing Defaults.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as a waiver of the failure of
Borrowers and Guarantors to comply with the terms of the Loan Agreement and the
other Financing Agreements after the date hereof.

     5.   AMENDMENT FEE. In addition to all other fees, charges, interest and
expenses payable by any Borrower or Guarantor to Agent or Lenders under the Loan
Agreement and the other Financing Agreements, Borrowers and Guarantors shall pay
to Agent for the ratable benefit of Lenders, contemporaneously with the
effectiveness of this Amendment No. 6, an amendment fee in the amount of
$35,000, which fee shall be fully earned and nonrefundable as of the date hereof
and may be charged to any loan account of Borrowers.

     6.   REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS. Each Borrower and Guarantor
hereby represents, warrants and covenants to Agent and Lenders the following
(which shall survive the execution and delivery of this Amendment No. 6), the
truth and accuracy of which are a continuing condition of the making of Loans
and providing Letter of Credit Accommodations to Borrowers:

          (a)  This Amendment No. 6 and each other agreement or instrument to be
executed and delivered by Borrowers and Guarantors in connection herewith
(collectively, together with this Amendment No. 6, the "Amendment Documents")
have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by all necessary action on the
part of each of the Borrowers and Guarantors which is a party hereto and thereto
and, if necessary, their respective stockholders and is in full force and effect
as of the date hereof and the agreements and obligations of each of the
Borrowers and Guarantors contained herein and therein constitute the legal,
valid and binding obligations of each of the Borrowers and Guarantors,
enforceable against them in accordance with their terms, except as
enforceability is limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium
or other laws relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights
generally and except to the extent that availability of the remedy of specific
performance or injunctive relief is subject to the discretion of the court
before which any proceeding therefor may be brought.

          (b)  The execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment No. 6
and the other Amendment Documents, (a) are all within each Borrower's and
Guarantor's corporate or limited liability company powers and (b) are not in

5

contravention of law or the terms of any Borrower's or Guarantor's certificate
or articles of incorporation, by laws, or other organizational documentation, or
any indenture, agreement or undertaking to which any Borrower or Guarantor is a
party or by which any Borrower or Guarantor or its property are bound.

          (c)  After giving effect to the wavier set forth in Section 4 hereof,
no Default or Event of Default exists or has occurred and is continuing.

          (d)  The Tranche B Amendment (as defined below) has been executed and
delivered by all parties thereto and is in full force and effect.

          (e)  All of the representations and warranties set forth in the Loan
Agreement and the other Financing Agreements, each as amended hereby, are true
and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof, as if made on
the date hereof, except to the extent any such representation or warranty is
made as of a specified date, in which case such representation or warranty shall
have been true and correct as of such date.

     7.   CONDITIONS PRECEDENT. The provisions contained herein shall only be
effective upon the satisfaction of each of the following conditions precedent in
a manner satisfactory to Agent:

          (a)  Agent shall have received this Amendment No. 6, duly authorized,
executed and delivered by Borrowers, Guarantors and Lenders;

          (b)  Agent shall have received (i) an amendment and waiver to the
Tranche B Term Loan Agreement (the "Tranche B Amendment"), in form and substance
satisfactory to Agent, duly authorized, executed and delivered by each of the
parties thereto, which Tranche B Amendment shall be in full force and effect,
and (ii) an amendment to the Intercreditor Agreement (the "Intercreditor
Amendment"), in form and substance satisfactory to Agent, duly authorized,
executed and delivered by Tranche B Term Loan Agent and acknowledged by
Borrowers and Guarantors, which Intercreditor Amendment shall be in full force
and effect;

          (c)  Agent shall have received a true and correct copy of any consent,
waiver or approval to or of this Amendment No. 6 or any other Amendment
Documents which any Borrower or Guarantor is required to obtain from any other
Person, and such consent, waiver or approval shall in form and substance
satisfactory to Agent; and

          (d)  after giving effect to the wavier set forth in Section 4 hereof,
no Default or Event of Default shall exist or have occurred and be continuing.

     8.   EFFECT OF THIS AGREEMENT. Except as expressly amended pursuant hereto,
no other changes or modifications to the Financing Agreements are intended or
implied, and, in all other respects, the Financing Agreements are hereby
specifically ratified, restated and confirmed by all parties hereto as of the
Amendment No. 6 Effective Date. To the extent that any provision of the Loan
Agreement or any of the other Financing Agreements are inconsistent with the
provisions of this Amendment No. 6, the provisions of this Amendment No. 6 shall
control.

                                       6

9.   FURTHER ASSURANCES. Borrowers and Guarantors shall execute and deliver
such additional documents and take such additional action as may be requested by
Agent to effectuate the provisions and purposes of this Amendment No. 6.

     10.  GOVERNING LAW. The validity, interpretation and enforcement of this
Agreement and the other Financing Agreements (except as otherwise provided
therein) and any dispute arising out of the relationship between the parties
hereto, whether in contract, tort, equity or otherwise, shall be governed by the
internal laws of the State of New York but excluding any principles of conflicts
of law or other rule of law that would cause the application of the law of any
jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of New York.

     11.  BINDING EFFECT. This Amendment No. 6 shall be binding upon and inure
to the benefit of each of the parties hereto and their respective successors and
assigns.

     12.  HEADINGS. The headings listed herein are for convenience only and do
not constitute matters to be construed in interpreting this Amendment No. 6.

     13.  COUNTERPARTS. This Amendment No. 6 may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but all of which taken
together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed
counterpart of this Amendment No. 6 by telefacsimile or other electronic method
of transmission shall have the same force and effect as the delivery of an
original executed counterpart of this Amendment No. 6. Any party delivering an
executed counterpart of this Amendment No. 6 by telefacsimile or other
electronic method of transmission shall also deliver an original executed
counterpart, but the failure to do so shall not affect the validity,
enforceability or binding effect of such agreement.

[REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

7

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment No. 6 to
be executed on the day and year first above written.

AGENT                                        BORROWERS

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION, as Agent

By: /s/ Sang Kim                                         HANDY   HARMAN
   -------------------------------

Title: Associate                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
      ----------------------------              -------------------------------

                                             Title:  Vice President and CFO
LENDERS                                             ----------------------------

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION
                                             OMG, INC.
By:   /s/ Sang Kim
   ------------------------------            By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
Title:  Associate                               -------------------------------
      ---------------------------            Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

TEXTRON FINANCIAL CORPORATION
                                             CONTINENTAL INDUSTRIES, INC.
By:  /s/ Kurt Kaliomaa
   -----------------------------             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
Title:   Sr. Account Executive                   -------------------------------
      --------------------------             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
                                             MARYLAND SPECIALTY WIRE, INC.
By: /s/ Kim Bushey
   -----------------------------             By:   /s/ Robert K. Hynes
Title: SVP                                      --------------------------------
      --------------------------             Title: Vice President, CFO and
                                                    Secretary
                                                   -----------------------------

                                             HANDY   HARMAN TUBE COMPANY, INC

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------
                     [SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

                                             CAMDEL METALS CORPORATION

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

                                             CANFIELD METAL COATING CORPORATION

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

MICRO-TUBE FABRICATORS, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

INDIANA TUBE CORPORATION

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

LUCAS-MILHAUPT, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

HANDY   HARMAN ELECTRONIC
                                             MATERIALS CORPORATION

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

SUMCO INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

GUARANTORS

HANDY   HARMAN OF CANADA,
                                             LIMITED

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

ELE CORPORATION

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

ALLOY RING SERVICE INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

DANIEL RADIATOR CORPORATION

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President, Treasurer
                                                    and Controller
                                                   -----------------------------

H H PRODUCTIONS, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

HANDY   HARMAN AUTOMOTIVE
                                             GROUP, INC.

                                             By:   /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President, Treasurer
                                                    and Assistant Secretary
                                                   -----------------------------

HANDY   HARMAN INTERNATIONAL,
                                             LTD.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

                                             HANDY   HARMAN PERU, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

KJ-VMI REALTY, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

PAL-RATH REALTY, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

PLATINA LABORATORIES, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

SHEFFIELD STREET CORPORATION

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

SWM, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

WILLING B WIRE CORPORATION

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

</EX-4.7>

<EX-4.8>
 8
 ex48to10k0647_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 4.8

           CONSENT AND AMENDMENT NO. 7 TO LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT

CONSENT AND AMENDMENT NO. 7 TO LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT (this "Amendment
No. 7"), dated as of January 24, 2006, by and among Handy   Harman, a New York
corporation ("H H"), OMG, Inc., a Delaware corporation formerly known as Olympic
Manufacturing Group, Inc. ("OMG"), Continental Industries, Inc., an Oklahoma
corporation ("Continental"), Maryland Specialty Wire, Inc., a Delaware
corporation ("Maryland Wire"), Handy   Harman Tube Company, Inc., a Delaware
corporation ("H H Tube"), Camdel Metals Corporation, a Delaware corporation
("Camdel"), Canfield Metal Coating Corporation, a Delaware corporation
("Canfield"), Micro-Tube Fabricators, Inc., a Delaware corporation
("Micro-Tube"), Indiana Tube Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Indiana
Tube"), Lucas-Milhaupt, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation ("Lucas"), Handy   Harman
Electronic Materials Corporation, a Florida corporation ("H H Electronic"),
Sumco Inc., an Indiana corporation ("Sumco" and together with H H, OMG,
Continental, Maryland Wire, H H Tube, Camdel, Canfield, Micro-Tube, Indiana
Tube, Lucas and H H Electronic, each individually, a "Borrower" and
collectively, "Borrowers"), Handy   Harman of Canada, Limited, an Ontario
corporation ("H H Canada"), ele Corporation, a California corporation ("ele"),
Alloy Ring Service Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Alloy"), Daniel Radiator
Corporation, a Texas corporation ("Daniel"), H H Productions, Inc., a Delaware
corporation ("H H Productions"), Handy   Harman Automotive Group, Inc., a
Delaware corporation ("H H Auto"), Handy   Harman International, Ltd., a
Delaware corporation ("H H International"), Handy   Harman Peru, Inc., a
Delaware corporation ("H H Peru"), KJ-VMI Realty, Inc., a Delaware corporation
("KVR"), Pal-Rath Realty, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Pal-Rath"), Platina
Laboratories, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Platina"), Sheffield Street
Corporation, a Connecticut corporation ("Sheffield"), SWM, Inc., a Delaware
corporation ("SWM"), Willing B Wire Corporation, a Delaware corporation
("Willing" and together with H H Canada, ele, Alloy, Daniel, H H Productions,
H H Auto, H H International, H H Peru, KVR, Pal-Rath, Platina, Sheffield and
SWM, each individually, a "Guarantor" and collectively, "Guarantors"), Wachovia
Bank, National Association, a national banking association that is successor by
merger to Congress Financial Corporation, in its capacity as agent pursuant to
the Loan Agreement (as hereinafter defined) acting for the financial
institutions party thereto as lenders (in such capacity, together with its
successors and assigns, "Agent"), and the financial institutions party thereto
as lenders (collectively, "Lenders"). Capitalized terms used herein which are
not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings ascribed thereto
in the Loan Agreement.

                              W I T N E S S E T H:
                              - - - - - - - - - -

     WHEREAS, Agent, Lenders, Borrowers and Guarantors have entered into
financing arrangements pursuant to which Lenders (or Agent on behalf of Lenders)
have made and may make loans and advances and provide other financial
accommodations to Borrowers as set forth in the Loan and Security Agreement,
dated as of March 31, 2004, by and among Agent, Lenders, Borrowers and
Guarantors (as amended by Consent and Amendment No. 1 to Loan and Security
Agreement, dated as of August 31, 2004, Amendment No. 2 to Loan and Security
Agreement, dated as of October 29, 2004, Amendment No. 3 to Loan and Security

Agreement, dated as of December 29, 2004, Amendment No. 4 to Loan and Security
Agreement, dated as of May 20, 2005, Amendment No. 5 to Loan and Security
Agreement, dated as of September 8, 2005 and Amendment No. 6 and Waiver to Loan
and Security Agreement, dated as of December 29, 2005 and as the same may
hereafter be further amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed,
restated or replaced, the "Loan Agreement"), and the other agreements, documents
and instruments referred to therein or at any time executed and/or delivered in
connection therewith or related thereto (all of the foregoing, together with the
Loan Agreement, as the same now exist or may hereafter be amended, modified,
supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced, being collectively
referred to herein as the "Financing Agreements");

     WHEREAS, the Borrowers have informed Agent and Lenders that OMG proposes to
enter into a financing transaction with Sovereign Bank ("Sovereign") as set
forth in the Loan and Security Agreement, dated on or about the date hereof (the
"Sovereign Loan Agreement" and together with all agreements, documents and
instruments executed and/or delivered by or on behalf of any Borrower or Obligor
in connection therewith, the "Sovereign Loan Documents") in which, upon the
terms and conditions set forth herein, (a) Agent shall release and terminate its
security interests in and liens upon the Real Property of OMG located in Agawam,
Massachusetts (the "Massachusetts Real Property"); (b) OMG shall grant a
security interest and lien upon the Massachusetts Real Property in favor of
Sovereign; and (c) Sovereign will make a term loan to OMG in the principal
amount of $8,000,000 to be secured by a security interest and lien upon the
Massachusetts Real Property;

     WHEREAS, Borrowers and Guarantors have informed Agent and Lenders that Fisk
Alloy Conductors, Inc., a New Jersey corporation ("Buyer") and Maryland Wire, as
seller, have entered into the Agreement for Purchase and Sale of Assets, dated
as of January 31, 2006 (the "Purchase Agreement" and together with all
agreements, documents, and instruments executed and/or delivered by or on behalf
of any Borrower or Obligor in connection therewith, the "Purchase Documents"),
pursuant to which, among other things, Maryland Wire agrees to sell to Buyer all
of the right, title and interest of Maryland Wire in and to its fee simple
interest in the real property and improvements located at 6149 Sutliff Road,
Oriskany, New York, as more fully described on Schedule 1 hereto and the
machinery and equipment located on such real property as more fully described on
Schedule 1 hereto (collectively, the "New York Real Property");

     WHEREAS, Borrowers and Guarantors have requested that Agent and Lenders
provide certain consents and amendments to the Loan Agreement and the other
Financing Agreements, and Agent and Lenders are willing to agree to such
consents and to grant such amendments, subject to the terms and conditions
contained herein; and

     WHEREAS, by this Amendment No. 7, Borrowers, Guarantors, Agent and Lenders
desire and intend to evidence such consents and amendments;

     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and the respective
agreements and covenants contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:

2

1.   AMENDMENT TO DEFINITION. The definition of "Reserves" in Section 1.119
of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following immediately
before the period at the end of the second sentence of such definition:

          "; or any access fees, occupancy charges or similar amounts payable or
          to be payable by Agent pursuant to the Sovereign Access Agreement (as
          defined in Amendment No. 7)."

     2.   ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS. As used herein, the following terms shall have
the following meanings given to them below, and the Loan Agreement and the other
Financing Agreements are hereby amended to include, in addition and not in
limitation, the following:

         (a)   "Amendment No. 7" shall mean Consent and Amendment No. 7 to Loan
and Security Agreement by and among Borrowers, Guarantors, Agent and the
Lenders, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, modified,
supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

          (b)  "Amendment No. 7 Effective Date" shall mean the first date on
which all of the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of Amendment No. 7
shall have been satisfied or waived.

     3.   EVENTS OF DEFAULT. Section 10.1(i) of the Loan Agreement is hereby
amended by deleting "the Tranche B Term Loan Debt" and replacing it with "the
Tranche B Term Loan Debt or the Sovereign Debt (as defined in Amendment No. 7)".

     4.   CONSENT TO REFINANCING OF MASSACHUSETTS REAL PROPERTY.

          (a)  Subject to the terms and conditions contained herein, to the
extent such consents are or may be required under the Loan Agreement, and
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Sections 9.8 and 9.9 of
the Loan Agreement, Agent and Lenders hereby consent to (i) the incurrence by
OMG of Indebtedness of OMG to Sovereign evidenced by or arising from a term loan
made by Sovereign to OMG (the "Sovereign Debt") and (ii) the grant by OMG of a
security interest and lien upon the Massachusetts Real Property in favor of
Sovereign to secure the Sovereign Debt, in each case in accordance with the
terms of the Sovereign Loan Documents (as in effect on the date hereof);
PROVIDED, THAT, each of the following conditions is satisfied as determined by
Agent:

                    (A)  the principal amount of the Sovereign Debt shall not
exceed $8,000,000 less the aggregate amount of all repayments, repurchases or
redemptions thereof, whether optional or mandatory;

                    (B)  the Sovereign Debt shall be on terms and conditions
acceptable to Agent;

                    (C)  Agent shall have received true, correct and complete
copies of the Sovereign Loan Documents, which shall be in form and substance
satisfactory to Agent, as duly executed and delivered by the parties thereto;

                                       3

(D)  Borrowers and Guarantors shall not (1) make any
voluntary prepayments in respect of the Sovereign Debt or (2) directly or
indirectly redeem, retire, defease, purchase or otherwise acquire the Sovereign
Debt, or set aside or deposit or invest any sums for such purpose;

                    (E)  Agent shall have received an access and use agreement,
in form and substance satisfactory to Agent (the "Sovereign Access Agreement"),
duly authorized, executed and delivered by Sovereign;

                    (F)  Agent shall have received in cash or other immediately
available funds all of the net cash proceeds of the Sovereign Debt, which shall
in no event be less than $6,990,000, of which $2,179,459 shall be applied to the
outstanding principal amount of the Term Loans to OMG and the balance of which
shall be applied to the outstanding principal amount of the Revolving Loans;

                    (G)  on the date of the incurrence of the Sovereign Debt and
after giving effect thereto, no Default or Event of Default shall exist or have
occurred and be continuing;

                    (H)  the closing of the Sovereign Debt shall have been
consummated and each of the conditions set forth in this Section 5(a) above
shall have been satisfied on or before February 10, 2006; and

                    (I)  Borrowers and Guarantors shall furnish to Agent all
notices of default or demands for payment in connection with the Sovereign Debt
received by such Borrower or Guarantor or on its behalf promptly after the
receipt thereof.

          (b)  Upon the closing of the transactions contemplated by the
Sovereign Loan Agreement and upon the satisfaction of the conditions set forth
in Sections 5(a) and 8 hereof, Agent shall release and terminate its security
interests in and liens upon the Massachusetts Real Property; PROVIDED, THAT,
nothing contained in this Section 5(b) shall be deemed a release or termination
by Agent of any security interests in and liens upon any assets of Borrowers or
Obligors other than the Massachusetts Real Property, all of which shall continue
in full force and effect. Except as specifically set forth herein, nothing
contained herein shall be construed in any manner to constitute a waiver,
release or termination or to otherwise limit or impair any of the obligations or
indebtedness of any Borrower, any Obligor or any other person or entity to Agent
and Lenders, or any duties, obligations or responsibilities of Borrowers,
Obligors or any other person or entity to Agent and Lenders.

     5.   CONSENT TO SALE OF REAL PROPERTY BY MARYLAND WIRE.

          (a)  Subject to the terms and conditions contained herein, to the
extent such consents are or may be required under the Loan Agreement, and
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section 9.7 of the Loan
Agreement, Agent and Lenders hereby consent to the sale by Maryland Wire of the
New York Real Property in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement
(as in effect on the date thereof); PROVIDED, THAT, each of the following
conditions precedent is satisfied as determined by Agent:

                                       4

(i)   Agent shall have received in cash or other immediately
available funds all of the Net Cash Proceeds of the sale of the New York Real
Property to be received by Maryland Wire or any Borrower or Obligor on or before
the closing date of such sale, which Net Cash Proceeds shall in any event be not
less than $1,390,000, of which $536,385 shall be applied to the outstanding
principal amount of the Term Loans to Maryland Wire and the balance of which
shall be applied to the outstanding principal amount of the Revolving Loans;

               (ii)  Agent shall have received (A) an executed copy of the Deed
by Maryland Wire transferring the New York Real Property to Buyer, (B) a copy of
the Closing Statement executed by Maryland Wire and Buyer and (C) a copy of the
Mortgage Satisfaction with respect to the New York Real Property executed by
Tranche B Term Loan Agent;

               (iii) Agent shall have received, in form and substance
satisfactory to Agent, true, correct and complete copies of the following
documents, each duly authorized, executed and delivered by the parties thereto:
(A) the Purchase Agreement and the other material Purchase Documents and (B) any
consent, waiver or approval to or of the sale of the New York Real Property,
which any Borrower or Obligor is required to obtain from any other Person;

               (iv)  after the date hereof, none of Maryland Wire or any other
Borrower or Guarantor shall have entered into any amendment, supplement or
modification to any of the Purchase Documents without the prior written consent
of Agent;

               (v)   the sale of the New York Real Property shall have been
consummated and each of the conditions set forth in this Section 6(a) above
shall have been satisfied on or before February 17, 2006; and

               (vi)  Default or Event of Default shall exist or have occurred
and be continuing.

          (b)  Upon the closing of the sale of the New York Real Property in
accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement and upon the satisfaction of
the conditions set forth in Sections 6(a) and 8 hereof, Agent shall release and
terminate its security interests in and liens upon the New York Real Property;
PROVIDED, THAT, nothing contained in this Section 6(b) shall be deemed a release
or termination by Agent or any security interests in and liens upon any assets
of Borrowers or Obligors other than the New York Real Property, all of which
shall continue in full force and effect. Except as specifically set forth
herein, nothing contained herein shall be construed in any manner to constitute
a waiver, release or termination or to otherwise limit or impair any of the
obligations or indebtedness of any Borrower, any Obligor or any other person or
entity to Agent and Lenders, or any duties, obligations or responsibilities of
Borrowers, Obligors or any other person or entity to Agent and Lenders.

     6.   REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS. Each Borrower and Guarantor
hereby represents, warrants and covenants to Agent and Lenders the following
(which shall survive the execution and delivery of this Amendment No. 7), the
truth and accuracy of which representations and warranties are a continuing
condition of the making of Loans and providing Letter of Credit Accommodations
to Borrowers:

                                       5

(a)  this Amendment No. 7 and each other agreement or instrument to be
executed and delivered by Borrowers and Guarantors in connection herewith
(collectively, together with this Amendment No. 7, the "Amendment Documents")
have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by all necessary action on the
part of each of the Borrowers and Guarantors which is a party hereto and thereto
and, if necessary, their respective stockholders and is in full force and effect
as of the date hereof and the agreements and obligations of each of the
Borrowers and Guarantors contained herein and therein constitute the legal,
valid and binding obligations of each of the Borrowers and Guarantors,
enforceable against them in accordance with their terms, except as
enforceability is limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium
or other laws relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights
generally and except to the extent that availability of the remedy of specific
performance or injunctive relief is subject to the discretion of the court
before which any proceeding therefor may be brought;

          (b)  the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment No. 7
and the other Amendment Documents, (a) are all within each Borrower's and
Guarantor's corporate powers and (b) are not in contravention of law or the
terms of any Borrower's or Guarantor's certificate or articles of incorporation,
by laws, or other organizational documentation, or any indenture, agreement or
undertaking (including, without limitation, the Tranche B Term Loan Agreement)
to which any Borrower or Guarantor is a party or by which any Borrower or
Guarantor or its property are bound;

          (c)  no Default or Event of Default exists or has occurred and is
continuing;

          (d)  the Tranche B Amendment (as defined below) has been executed and
delivered by all parties thereto and is in full force and effect;

          (e)  Borrowers and Guarantors have delivered to Agent true, correct
and complete copies of the Sovereign Loan Agreement, the Purchase Agreement and
all other material Sovereign Loan Documents and Purchase Documents, together
with all exhibits and schedules thereto, as executed and delivered by the
parties thereto;

          (f)  the sale of New York Real Property in no way limits, impairs or
adversely affects the Obligations howsoever arising, or (except as expressly
provided in Section 6(b) hereof) any security interest or liens securing the
same and such security interests and liens shall continue to be in full force
and effect, including, but not limited to, all amounts at any time payable to
Maryland Wire or any other Borrower or Guarantor pursuant to any Purchase
Document and all rights, benefits and remedies of Maryland Wire pursuant to any
Purchase Document;

          (g)  all actions and proceedings required by the sale of New York Real
Property, the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Sovereign
Loan Documents or any applicable law or regulation have been taken, and the
transactions required thereunder have been duly and validly taken and
consummated;

          (h)  the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the
Sovereign Loan Documents, the sale of New York Real Property and the related
transactions do not and shall not violate any provision of the Certificate of

6

Incorporation or By-Laws of any Borrower or Guarantor or any law or regulation
or the terms of any mortgage, deed of trust, security agreement, indenture,
agreement, instrument or undertaking (including, without limitation, the Tranche
B Term Loan Agreement) to which such Borrower or Guarantor is a party or by
which such Borrower or Guarantor or its or their property are bound, and any
provision of such mortgage, deed of trust, security agreement, indenture,
agreement, instrument or undertaking (including, without limitation, the Tranche
B Term Loan Agreement) prohibiting the consummation of the transactions
contemplated by the Sovereign Loan Documents, the sale of New York Real Property
and the related transactions has been previously consented to or waived by the
applicable party or parties;

          (i)  the net purchase price payable by Buyer to Maryland Wire in
respect of the sale of the New York Real Property on the closing date of such
sale shall not be less than $1,400,000;

          (j)  in the event Maryland Wire or any other Borrower or Obligor
receives any Net Cash Proceeds from the sale of the New York Real Property after
the closing date of such sale, such amounts shall be collected by Maryland Wire
and the other Borrowers and Obligors, as the case may be, as the property of
Agent and held by it or them in trust for Agent, and on the date received,
Maryland Wire and such other Borrower or Obligor shall remit such amounts to
Agent in the form received, with any necessary assignments or endorsements, for
application by Agent to the outstanding principal amount of the Obligations in
accordance with Section 2.4(c) of the Loan Agreement;

          (k)  if Maryland Wire or any other Borrower or Obligor pays (or is
required to pay) any purchase price adjustment or other amount pursuant to the
Purchase Documents, Maryland Wire or such other Borrower or Obligor shall give
Agent prompt written notice thereof, together with such information relating
thereto as Agent may request from time to time;

          (l)  no court of competent jurisdiction has issued any injunction,
restraining order or other order which prohibits consummation of the
transactions contemplated by the Sovereign Loan Documents or the Purchase
Documents, and no governmental action or proceeding has been threatened or
commenced seeking any injunction, restraining order or other order seeking to
void or otherwise modify the transactions described herein or therein; and

          (m)  all of the representations and warranties set forth in the Loan
Agreement and the other Financing Agreements, each as amended hereby, are true
and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof, as if made on
the date hereof, except to the extent any such representation or warranty is
made as of a specified date, in which case such representation or warranty shall
have been true and correct as of such date.

     7.   CONDITIONS PRECEDENT. The provisions contained herein shall only be
effective upon the satisfaction of each of the following conditions precedent in
a manner satisfactory to Agent:

          (a)  Agent shall have received this Amendment No. 7, duly authorized,
executed and delivered by Borrowers, Guarantors and Required Lenders;

                                       7

(b)  Agent shall have received a consent and amendment to the Tranche
B Term Loan Agreement (the "Tranche B Amendment"), in form and substance
satisfactory to Agent, duly authorized, executed and delivered by each of the
parties thereto, which Tranche B Amendment shall be in full force and effect;

          (c)  Agent shall have received a true and correct copy of any consent,
waiver or approval to or of this Amendment No. 7 or any other Amendment
Documents which any Borrower or Guarantor is required to obtain from any other
Person, and such consent, waiver or approval shall in form and substance
satisfactory to Agent; and

          (d)  no Default or Event of Default shall exist or have occurred and
be continuing.

     8.   EFFECT OF THIS AGREEMENT. Except as expressly amended pursuant hereto
and except for the consents expressly granted herein, no other changes or
modifications to the Financing Agreements are intended or implied, and in all
other respects the Financing Agreements are hereby specifically ratified,
restated and confirmed by all parties hereto as of the Amendment No. 7 Effective
Date. To the extent that any provision of the Loan Agreement or any of the other
Financing Agreements are inconsistent with the provisions of this Amendment No.
7, the provisions of this Amendment No. 7 shall control.

     9.   FURTHER ASSURANCES. Borrowers and Guarantors shall execute and deliver
such additional documents and take such additional action as may be requested by
Agent to effectuate the provisions and purposes of this Amendment No. 7.

     10.  GOVERNING LAW. The validity, interpretation and enforcement of this
Amendment No. 7 and the other Financing Agreements (except as otherwise provided
therein) and any dispute arising out of the relationship between the parties
hereto, whether in contract, tort, equity or otherwise, shall be governed by the
internal laws of the State of New York but excluding any principles of conflicts
of law or other rule of law that would cause the application of the law of any
jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of New York.

     11.  BINDING EFFECT. This Amendment No. 7 shall be binding upon and inure
to the benefit of each of the parties hereto and their respective successors and
assigns.

     12.  HEADINGS. The headings listed herein are for convenience only and do
not constitute matters to be construed in interpreting this Amendment No. 7.

     13.  COUNTERPARTS. This Amendment No. 7 may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but all of which taken
together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed
counterpart of this Amendment No. 7 by telefacsimile or other electronic method
of transmission shall have the same force and effect as the delivery of an
original executed counterpart of this Amendment No. 7. Any party delivering an
executed counterpart of this Amendment No. 7 by telefacsimile or other
electronic method of transmission shall also deliver an original executed
counterpart, but the failure to do so shall not affect the validity,
enforceability or binding effect of this Amendment No. 7.

                  [REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

8

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment No. 7 to
be executed on the day and year first above written.

AGENT                                        BORROWERS

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION, as Agent

By: /s/ Thomas Grabosky                      HANDY  amp; HARMAN
   --------------------------------

Title:  Director                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
      ----------------------------               -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Chief
                                                    Financial Officer
                                                    ----------------------------
LENDERS

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION                                  OMG, INC.

By:  /s/ Thomas Grabosky                     By:  /s/ Robert K. Hynes
   ------------------------------                -------------------------------
Title:  Director                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
      ---------------------------                   ----------------------------

TEXTRON FINANCIAL CORPORATION                CONTINENTAL INDUSTRIES, INC.

By:  /s/ Kurt Kalliomaa                      By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
   -----------------------------                --------------------------------
Title:  Sr. Account Executive                Title: Vice President and Treasurer
      --------------------------                   -----------------------------

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.                        MARYLAND SPECIALTY WIRE, INC.

By:  /s/ Kim B. Bushey                       By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
   -----------------------------                --------------------------------
Title:   SVP                                 Title: Vice President, CFO and
      --------------------------                    Secretary
                                                    ----------------------------

                                             HANDY  amp; HARMAN TUBE COMPANY, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------

                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

                     [SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

                                             CAMDEL METALS CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

                                             CANFIELD METAL COATING CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

MICRO-TUBE FABRICATORS, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

INDIANA TUBE CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

LUCAS-MILHAUPT, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

HANDY  amp; HARMAN ELECTRONIC
                                             MATERIALS CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

SUMCO INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

GUARANTORS

HANDY  amp; HARMAN OF CANADA,
                                             LIMITED

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

ELE CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

ALLOY RING SERVICE INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

DANIEL RADIATOR CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

H H PRODUCTIONS, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

HANDY   HARMAN AUTOMOTIVE
                                             GROUP, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: VP, Treasurer and Assistant
                                                    Secretary
                                                   -----------------------------

HANDY   HARMAN INTERNATIONAL,
                                             LTD.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

                                             HANDY   HARMAN PERU, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

KJ-VMI REALTY, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

PAL-RATH REALTY, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

PLATINA LABORATORIES, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

SHEFFIELD STREET CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

SWM, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

WILLING B WIRE CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

SCHEDULE 1
                                       TO
           CONSENT AND AMENDMENT NO. 7 TO LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT

DESCRIPTION OF NEW YORK REAL PROPERTY

MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT

                                  See Attached.

</EX-4.8>

<EX-4.15>
 9
 ex415to10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 4.15

AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT

AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO LOAN AND SECURITY  AGREEMENT  (this  "Amendment No. 2"),
dated as of May 20, 2005,  by and among Handy   Harman,  a New York  corporation
("Parent"),  OMG, Inc., formerly known as Olympic  Manufacturing  Group, Inc., a
Delaware  corporation  ("OMG"),   Continental  Industries,   Inc.,  an  Oklahoma
corporation   ("Continental"),   Maryland   Specialty  Wire,  Inc.,  a  Delaware
corporation  ("Maryland  Wire"),  Handy   Harman Tube Company,  Inc., a Delaware
corporation  ("H H Tube"),  Camdel Metals  Corporation,  a Delaware  corporation
("Camdel"),   Canfield  Metal  Coating   Corporation,   a  Delaware  corporation
("Canfield"),    Micro-Tube   Fabricators,    Inc.,   a   Delaware   corporation
("Micro-Tube"),  Indiana  Tube  Corporation,  a Delaware  corporation  ("Indiana
Tube"), Lucas-Milhaupt,  Inc., a Wisconsin corporation ("Lucas"), Handy   Harman
Electronic  Materials  Corporation,  a Florida  corporation ("H H  Electronic"),
Sumco Inc.,  an Indiana  corporation  ("Sumco"  and together  with Parent,  OMG,
Continental,  Maryland Wire, H H Tube,  Camdel,  Canfield,  Micro-Tube,  Indiana
Tube,   Lucas  and  H H  Electronic,   each   individually,   a  "Borrower"  and
collectively,  "Borrowers"),  Handy   Harman  of  Canada,  Limited,  an  Ontario
corporation ("H H Canada"),  ele Corporation,  a California corporation ("ele"),
Alloy Ring  Service  Inc., a Delaware  corporation  ("Alloy"),  Daniel  Radiator
Corporation, a Texas corporation ("Daniel"),  H H Productions,  Inc., a Delaware
corporation  ("H H  Productions"),  Handy   Harman  Automotive  Group,  Inc.,  a
Delaware  corporation  ("H H  Auto"),  Handy    Harman  International,  Ltd.,  a
Delaware  corporation  ("H H  International"),  Handy    Harman  Peru,  Inc.,  a
Delaware  corporation ("H H Peru"),  KJ-VMI Realty, Inc., a Delaware corporation
("KVR"),  Pal-Rath Realty,  Inc., a Delaware corporation  ("Pal-Rath"),  Platina
Laboratories,  Inc.,  a  Delaware  corporation  ("Platina"),   Sheffield  Street
Corporation,  a Connecticut  corporation  ("Sheffield"),  SWM,  Inc., a Delaware
corporation  ("SWM")  and  Willing B Wire  Corporation,  a Delaware  corporation
("Willing"  and  together  with each of H H  Canada,  ele,  Alloy,  Daniel,  H H
Productions,  H H Auto, H H  International,  H H Peru, KVR,  Pal-Rath,  Platina,
Sheffield  and  SWM,  each   individually,   a  "Guarantor"  and   collectively,
"Guarantors"),  Canpartners  Investments  IV, LLC,  successor by assignment from
Ableco  Finance LLC, in its capacity as agent pursuant to the Loan Agreement (as
hereinafter  defined)  acting for the  financial  institutions  party thereto as
lenders (in such capacity,  together with its  successors and assigns,  "Agent")
and  the  financial   institutions  party  thereto  as  lenders   (collectively,
"Lenders").

                               W I T N E S S E T H

     WHEREAS,  Agent,  Lenders,  Borrowers  and  Guarantors  have  entered  into
financing arrangements pursuant to which Lenders (or Agent on behalf of Lenders)
have  made  and  may  make  loans  and  advances  and  provide  other  financial
accommodations  to Borrowers  as set forth in the Loan and  Security  Agreement,
dated as of March 31, 2004,  by and among  Agent,  successor  by  assignment  to
Ableco Finance LLC,  Lenders,  Borrowers and Guarantors (as amended by Amendment
No. 1 to Loan and Security  Agreement,  dated as of October 29, 2004, and as the
same  may  hereafter  be  further  amended,  modified,  supplemented,  extended,
renewed, restated or replaced, the "Loan Agreement"),  and the other agreements,

documents and  instruments  referred to therein or at any time  executed  and/or
delivered  in  connection  therewith or related  thereto (all of the  foregoing,
together  with the Loan  Agreement,  as the same now exist or may  hereafter  be
amended, modified, supplemented,  extended, renewed, restated or replaced, being
collectively referred to herein as the "Financing Agreements"); and

     WHEREAS,  Borrowers and  Guarantors  have  requested that Agent and Lenders
agree to  certain  amendments  to the Loan  Agreement  and the  other  Financing
Agreements,  and Agent and  Lenders  are  willing  to agree to such  amendments,
subject to the terms and conditions contained herein; and

     WHEREAS, by this Amendment No. 2, Borrowers,  Guarantors, Agent and Lenders
desire and intend to evidence such consents and amendments;

     NOW  THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the  foregoing,  and the  respective
agreements and covenants contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:

     1.   AMENDMENTS TO DEFINITIONS.

      (a) All references to the defined term "Olympic" in the Loan Agreement and
in any of the other  Financing  Agreements  are hereby deleted and replaced with
"OMG."

      (b) Section 1.30 of the Loan  Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such
definition and replacing it with the following:

          "1.30  "EBITDA"  shall  mean,  as to  any  Person,  with
          respect  to any  period,  an amount  equal  to:  (a) the
          Consolidated  Net Income of such Person for such period,
          plus (b)  depreciation  and amortization for such period
          (to  the  extent   deducted   in  the   computation   of
          Consolidated   Net  Income  of  such  Person),   all  in
          accordance with GAAP, plus (c) Interest Expense for such
          period (to the extent  deducted  in the  computation  of
          Consolidated  Net Income of such  Person),  plus (d) the
          Provision  for  Taxes  for such  period  (to the  extent
          deducted in the computation of  Consolidated  Net Income
          of such Person), plus (e) the net loss attributed to the
          operations  of Maryland Wire for each of the periods and
          in the  respective  amounts  listed in  Schedule  1.30-A
          hereto,  plus (f) the charge attributed to the Fairfield
          facility  for the  period  and in the  amount  listed in
          Schedule 1.30-B;  PROVIDED,  THAT,  EBITDA of the Parent
          and its Subsidiaries,  on a consolidated  basis, for the
          fiscal quarters ending March 31, June 30,  September 30,
          and December 31, 2003 shall equal the applicable amounts
          set  forth  on  Schedule  1.30   corresponding  to  such
          period."

      (c) Section 1.50 of the Loan  Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such
definition and replacing it with the following:

      "1.50 "FIXED  CHARGES"  shall mean, as to any Person and its  Subsidiaries
           with respect to any period, the sum of, without duplication,  (a) all
           cash  Interest  Expense,  provided  that any annual  fees paid to the
           Working  Capital  Lenders or Working Capital Agent will be considered
           to be a cash Interest  Expense when such amounts are recognized as an

2

expense in the income statement of any Borrower or Guarantor, (b) all
           regularly scheduled (as determined at the beginning of the respective
           period)  principal   payments  of  Indebtedness  for  borrowed  money
           (including,  without limitation,  all regularly scheduled payments of
           principal  in respect of the Loan) and  Indebtedness  with respect to
           Capitalized  Leases (and without  duplicating  amounts in item (a) of
           this definition,  the interest component with respect to Indebtedness
           under  Capitalized  Leases),  but  excluding  all payments in kind or
           non-cash  payments of interest on account of  Indebtedness  under the
           WHX Subordinated Note, (c) all cash income taxes (including,  without
           limitation, payments made pursuant to Section 9.12(b)(iii)), (d) cash
           dividends,  repurchases  or  redemptions  paid by such Person and its
           Subsidiaries   (other   than  to  such   Person   or  such   Person's
           Subsidiaries)  in respect of Capital Stock,  (e) management fees paid
           in cash (in each case as to such Person and its Subsidiaries) and (f)
           all cash  payments for pension  expenses  paid by such Person and its
           Subsidiaries  during such period to the extent such  payments are not
           deducted from the determination of Consolidated Net Income, including
           but not limited to payments for pension expenses to WHX."

      (d) Section 1.79 of the Loan  Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such
definition and replacing it with the following:

       1.79 "OBLIGOR" shall mean any guarantor,  endorser,  acceptor,  surety or
            other person liable on or with respect to the  Obligations or who is
            the owner of any  property  which is  security  for the  Obligations
            (including, without limitation, Guarantors), other than Borrowers."

     2.   ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS. As used herein, the following terms shall have
the following meanings given to them below, and the Loan Agreement and the other
Financing  Agreements  are hereby  amended to include,  in  addition  and not in
limitation, the following:

      (a) "WC  Equipment  Purchase  Term Loan"  shall  mean the term  "Equipment
Purchase  Term Loans" as defined in the Working  Capital  Loan  Agreement  as in
effect on the date hereof.

      (b) "OMG" shall mean OMG, Inc.,  formerly  known as Olympic  Manufacturing
Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its successors and assigns.

     3.   MANDATORY  PREPAYMENTS.  Section 2.3 of the Loan  Agreement  is hereby
amended as follows:

      (a) Section  2.3(a)(i) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by deleting
"and third" and replacing it with ", third, to the outstanding  principal amount
of the WC Equipment Purchase Term Loans, and fourth";

      (b) Section 2.3(a)(ii) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by deleting
"and,  second," and replacing it with ", second,  to the  outstanding  principal
amount of the WC Equipment Purchase Term Loans, and, third,";

                                       3

(c) Section  2.3(b) of the Loan  Agreement  is hereby  amended by deleting
"and  second" and  replacing  it with ", second,  to the  outstanding  principal
amount of the WC Equipment Purchase Term Loans, and third";

      (d) Section  2.3(c)(i) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by deleting
"and third" and replacing it with "third, to the outstanding principal amount of
the WC Equipment Purchase Term Loans, and fourth";

      (e) Section 2.3(c)(ii) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by deleting
"and  second" and  replacing  it with ", second,  to the  outstanding  principal
amount of the WC Equipment Purchase Term Loans, and third";

      (f) Section  2.3(c)(iii)  of the  Loan  Agreement  is  hereby  amended  by
deleting  the  paragraph  starting  with  "first"  and  replacing  it  with  the
following:

          "FIRST,  the initial $2,000,000 of the Net Cash Proceeds
          from the sale or  disposition  of all such Real Property
          shall be split 50/50  between the Working  Capital  Loan
          Agreement and this Agreement, with the portion allocable
          to  this  Agreement  being  applied  to the  outstanding
          principal  amount of the Loan and the portion  allocable
          to the Working Capital Loan Agreement being applied,  at
          Borrower's   option,  to  any  of  (A)  the  outstanding
          principal   amount  of  the  WC  Term  Loans,   (B)  the
          outstanding   principal   amount  of  the  WC  Equipment
          Purchase  Term  Loans or (C) the  outstanding  principal
          amount of the WC Revolving Loans so long as (in the case
          of this  clause  (C) only)  the  Working  Capital  Agent
          establishes  and maintains a permanent  Reserve  against
          the  aggregate  Borrowing  Base of all  Borrowers  in an
          amount  equal to the  amount  of such Net Cash  Proceeds
          that are so applied by  Borrowers to the  prepayment  of
          principal of the WC Revolving Loans; and"; and

      (g) Section  2.3(f) of the Loan  Agreement  is hereby  amended by deleting
"the WC Term  Loans" from each place it appears  and  replacing  it with "the WC
Term Loans, the WC Equipment Purchase Term Loans".

     4.   ALLOWED  INDEBTEDNESS.  Section  9.9(f)(i) is hereby amended by adding
the  following  phrase to the end of the  paragraph:  "plus (C) the WC Equipment
Purchase  Term Loans in an amount  equal to  $3,000,000  as reduced from time to
time by the principal payments and prepayments of the WC Equipment Purchase Term
Loans whether optional or mandatory,".

     5.   AMENDMENTS TO FINANCIAL COVENANTS.

      (a) Section  9.17(a) of the Loan  Agreement is hereby  amended by deleting
such Section and replacing it with the following:

          "(a) EBITDA.  Parent and its  Subsidiaries  shall not permit EBITDA of
          Parent and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, for the four (4)

4

consecutive  fiscal  quarters  ending  on the last  day of the  fiscal
          quarter  set forth  below to be less than the  applicable  amount  set
          forth below:

                                                                    Minimum
                     Fiscal Quarter End                              EBITDA
                     ------------------                              ------

               March 31, 2004                                      $25,784,000

               June 30, 2004                                       $25,874,000

               September 30, 2004                                  $27,658,000

               December 31, 2004                                   $30,202,000

               March 31, 2005                                      $27,000,000

               June 30, 2005                                       $27,000,000

               September 30, 2005                                  $30,000,000

               December 31, 2005                                   $35,000,000

               March 31, 2006                                      $36,000,000

               June 30, 2006                                       $37,000,000

               September 30, 2006                                  $38,000,000

               December 31, 2006 and each fiscal                   $39,000,000
               quarter ending thereafter

      (b) Section  9.17(b) of the Loan  Agreement is hereby  amended by deleting
such Section and replacing it with the following:

"(b) FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO.  Parent and its  Subsidiaries  shall
          not permit the Fixed Charge  Coverage Ratio for the applicable  period
          set forth  below to be less than the  ratio  set forth  opposite  such
          period:

                                                                   Minimum Fixed
                      Fiscal Quarter End                        Charge Coverage Ratio
                      ------------------                        ---------------------

               For the 3 months ending June 30, 2004                 0.75 to 1

               For the 6 months ending September 30, 2004            0.90 to 1

               For the 9 months ending December 31, 2004             0.75 to 1

               For the 3 months ending March 31, 2005                0.10 to 1

               For the 6 months ending June 30, 2005                 0.75 to 1

                                       5

For the 9 months ending September 30, 2005               1 to 1

               For the 12 months ending December 31, 2005               1 to 1

               For the four (4) consecutive fiscal quarters             1 to 1"
               ending on the last day of each fiscal quarter
               thereafter

(c) Section  9.17(c) of the Loan  Agreement is hereby  amended by deleting
such Section and replacing it with the following:

          "(c) MAXIMUM CAPITAL  EXPENDITURES.  Parent and its Subsidiaries shall
          not,  directly or indirectly,  make or commit to make (whether through
          purchase,  capital lease or otherwise)  Capital  Expenditures  for the
          applicable  period set forth  below to be in excess of the  applicable
          amount set forth opposite such period:

Maximum Capital
                        Period                                     Expenditures
                        ------                                     ------------

               Fiscal year ending December 31, 2004                $16,000,000

               For the 3 months ending March 31,                   $5,700,000
               2005

               For the 6 months ending June 30, 2005               $10,700,000

               For the 9 months ending September 30,               $15,700,000
               2005

               For the 12 months ending December 31,
               2005 and for each 12 months ending on               $18,500,000"
               the last day of each fiscal quarter
               thereafter

(d) Section  9.17(d) of the Loan  Agreement is hereby  amended by deleting
such Section and replacing it with the following:

          "(d) LEVERAGE RATIO.  Parent and its Subsidiaries shall not permit the
          Leverage Ratio of the Parent and its  Subsidiaries,  on a consolidated
          basis,  as of the last day of the fiscal quarter set forth below to be
          greater than the applicable ratio set forth below:

                                                               Maximum Leverage
                 Fiscal Quarter End                                  Ratio
                 ------------------                                  -----
               June 30, 2004                                       4.30 to 1

                                       6
 
                                                               Maximum Leverage
                 Fiscal Quarter End                                  Ratio
                 ------------------                                  -----
               September 30, 2004                                  4.20 to 1

               December 31, 2004                                   4.20 to 1

               March 31, 2005                                      5.25 to 1

               June 30, 2005                                       5.25 to 1

               September 30, 2005                                  4.75 to 1

               December 31, 2005                                   4.00 to 1

               March 31, 2006                                      4.00 to 1

               June 30, 2006                                       4.00 to 1

               September 30, 2006                                  4.00 to 1

               December 31, 2006 and each fiscal                   4.00 to 1"
               quarter ending thereafter

6.   AMENDMENT FEE AND LENDER'S LEGAL FEES AND EXPENSES. In addition to all
other fees, charges,  interest and expenses payable by any Borrower or Guarantor
to Agent or Lenders under the Loan Agreement and the other Financing Agreements,
Borrowers and Guarantors  shall pay to Agent for the account of Lenders (in such
manner as Agent may agree):

      (a) contemporaneously  with the  effectiveness of this Amendment No. 2, an
amendment fee in the amount of $150,000.00,  which fee shall be fully earned and
nonrefundable as of the date hereof; and

      (b) all fees and  expenses  incurred  by or on  behalf  of the  Lender  in
connection with the negotiation, preparation, and delivery of this Amendment No.
2, the consent to the sale by Maryland Wire of the Maryland Assets,  the consent
to  Amendment  No. 4 of the  Working  Capital  Loan  Agreement,  and any and all
related  documents,  including,  but not  limited  to, the  reasonable  fees and
expenses of legal counsel, such fees and expenses to be reimbursed no later than
ten (10) days after receipt of the invoice by Parent.

     7.   INDIANA  TUBE  DANMARK A/S  BORROWINGS.  Indiana  Tube  Danmark A/S, a
corporation  organized  under the laws of Denmark  and an  affiliate  of Parent,
shall not increase its borrowings  under its credit  facilities or other similar
lending arrangements in excess of 120% of its outstanding  borrowings thereunder
as of the date hereof without the prior written consent of Agent.

     8.   REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS. Each Borrower and Guarantor
hereby  represents,  warrants and  covenants to Agent and Lenders the  following
(which shall survive the  execution  and delivery of this  Amendment No. 2), the
truth and  accuracy of which are a  continuing  condition of the making of Loans
and providing Letter of Credit Accommodations to Borrowers:

                                       7

(a) This  Amendment  No. 2 and each other  agreement or  instrument  to be
executed and  delivered by  Borrowers  and  Guarantors  in  connection  herewith
(collectively,  together with this Amendment No. 2, the  "Amendment  Documents")
have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by all necessary action on the
part of each of the Borrowers and Guarantors which is a party hereto and thereto
and, if necessary, their respective stockholders and is in full force and effect
as of the date hereof, as the case may be, and the agreements and obligations of
each of the Borrowers and Guarantors,  as the case may be,  contained herein and
therein  constitute  the legal,  valid and  binding  obligations  of each of the
Borrowers and  Guarantors,  enforceable  against them in  accordance  with their
terms,   except  as  enforceability   is  limited  by  bankruptcy,   insolvency,
reorganization,  moratorium or other laws relating to or affecting generally the
enforcement of creditors'  rights and except to the extent that  availability of
the  remedy of  specific  performance  or  injunctive  relief is  subject to the
discretion of the court before which any proceeding therefor may be brought.

      (b) The  execution,  delivery and  performance of this Amendment No. 2 (a)
are all within each  Borrower's and Guarantor's  corporate or limited  liability
company  powers  and (b) are not in  contravention  of law or the  terms  of any
Borrower's or Guarantor's certificate or articles of incorporation,  by laws, or
other organizational documentation,  or any indenture,  agreement or undertaking
to which  any  Borrower  or  Guarantor  is a party or by which any  Borrower  or
Guarantor or its property are bound.

      (c) As of the date hereof,  and after giving  effect to the  provisions of
this  Amendment No. 2, no Default or Event of Default exists or has occurred and
is continuing.

      (d) The  Working  Capital  Amendment  (as  defined  hereinafter)  has been
executed and delivered by all parties and is in full force and effect.

      (e) All of the  representations  and  warranties  set  forth  in the  Loan
Agreement and the other Financing  Agreements,  each as amended hereby, are true
and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof, as if made on
the date  hereof,  except to the extent any such  representation  or warranty is
made as of a specified date, in which case such representation or warranty shall
have been true and correct as of such date.

      (f) Nothing in this  Amendment  No. 2 changes or  modifies  the rights and
obligations  of Agent,  Lenders and WHX pursuant to that  certain  Subordination
Agreement dated October 29, 2004 by and between Agent, as agent for the Lenders,
and WHX.

     9.   CONDITIONS  PRECEDENT.  The provisions  contained herein shall only be
effective upon the satisfaction of each of the following conditions precedent in
a manner satisfactory to Agent:

      (a) Agent  shall have  received  this  Amendment  No. 2, duly  authorized,
executed and delivered by Borrowers, Guarantors and Required Lenders;

      (b) Agent  shall have  received,  in form and  substance  satisfactory  to
Agent, a Secretary's  Certificate  from each Borrower and Guarantor with respect
to,  among other  things,  the  resolutions  of the Board of  Directors  of such
Borrower and Guarantor  evidencing  the adoption and  subsistence of resolutions

8

approving the execution, delivery and performance by such Borrower and Guarantor
of this Amendment No. 2 and the other Amendment Documents;

      (c) Agent  shall have  received a true and  correct  copy of any  consent,
waiver  or  approval  to or of  this  Amendment  No.  2 or any  other  Amendment
Documents  which any  Borrower or Guarantor is required to obtain from any other
Person,  and such  consent,  waiver  or  approval  shall  in form and  substance
satisfactory to Agent;

      (d) Agent shall have  received (i) a true and correct copy of an amendment
to the Working Capital Loan Agreement (the "Working Capital Amendment"), in form
and substance satisfactory to Agent, duly authorized,  executed and delivered by
each of the parties  thereto,  which Working Capital  Amendment shall be in full
force and effect  and (ii) an  amendment  to the  Intercreditor  Agreement  (the
"Intercreditor  Amendment"),  in form and substance  satisfactory to Agent, duly
authorized,  executed and delivered by Working Capital Agent and acknowledged by
Borrowers and Guarantors,  which Intercreditor  Amendment shall be in full force
and effect; and

      (e) no Default or Event of Default  shall  exist or have  occurred  and be
continuing.

     10.  EFFECT OF THIS AGREEMENT. Except as expressly amended pursuant hereto,
no other changes or  modifications  to the Financing  Agreements are intended or
implied,  and,  in all other  respects,  the  Financing  Agreements  are  hereby
specifically  ratified,  restated and confirmed by all parties  hereto as of the
effective date hereof. To the extent that any provision of the Loan Agreement or
any of the other Financing  Agreements are  inconsistent  with the provisions of
this Amendment No. 2, the provisions of this Amendment No. 2 shall control.

     11.  FURTHER ASSURANCES. Borrowers and Guarantors shall execute and deliver
such additional documents and take such additional action as may be requested by
Agent to effectuate the provisions and purposes of this Amendment No. 2.

     12.  GOVERNING LAW. The validity,  interpretation  and  enforcement of this
Agreement  and the other  Financing  Agreements  (except as  otherwise  provided
therein)  and any dispute  arising out of the  relationship  between the parties
hereto, whether in contract, tort, equity or otherwise, shall be governed by the
internal laws of the State of New York but excluding any principles of conflicts
of law or other rule of law that would cause the  application  of the law of any
jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of New York.

     13.  BINDING  EFFECT.  This Amendment No. 2 shall be binding upon and inure
to the benefit of each of the parties hereto and their respective successors and
assigns.

     14.  HEADINGS.  The headings listed herein are for convenience  only and do
not constitute matters to be construed in interpreting this Amendment No. 2.

                                       9

15.  COUNTERPARTS.  This  Amendment  No. 2 may be executed in any number of
counterparts,  each of  which  shall  be an  original,  but all of  which  taken
together shall  constitute one and the same  agreement.  Delivery of an executed
counterpart of this Amendment No. 2 by  telefacsimile  shall have the same force
and effect as the delivery of an original executed counterpart of this Amendment
No. 2. Any party  delivering an executed  counterpart of this Amendment No. 2 by
telefacsimile  shall also  deliver an  original  executed  counterpart,  but the
failure to do so shall not affect the validity, enforceability or binding effect
of such agreement.

                  [REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

10

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties hereto have caused this Amendment No. 2 to
be executed on the day and year first above written.

AGENT                                     BORROWERS
- -----                                     ---------

CANPARTNERS INVESTMENTS IV, LLC,          HANDY   HARMAN
as Agent
                                          By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
By: /s/ Mitch Julis                       ----------------------------------
   ---------------------------------      Title: Vice President and CFO
Title: Managing Partner
                                          OMG, INC.

                                          By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer
LENDERS
- -------

CANPARTNERS INVESTMENTS IV, LLC,          CONTINENTAL INDUSTRIES, INC.
as Lender

By: /s/ Mitch Julis                       By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
   ---------------------------------          ----------------------------------
Title: Managing Partner                   Title: Vice President and Treasurer

MARYLAND SPECIALTY WIRE, INC.

                                          By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

HANDY   HARMAN TUBE COMPANY, INC.

                                          By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

                                          CAMDEL METALS CORPORATION

                                          By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

CANFIELD METAL COATING CORPORATION

                                          By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Secretary

MICRO-TUBE FABRICATORS, INC.

                                           By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                          INDIANA TUBE CORPORATION

                                          By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

LUCAS-MILHAUPT, INC.

                                          By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                          HANDY   HARMAN ELECTRONIC
                                          MATERIALS CORPORATION

                                           By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                          SUMCO INC.

                                          By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                     [SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

GUARANTORS
                                          ----------

                                          HANDY   HARMAN OF CANADA,
                                          LIMITED

                                          By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

ELE CORPORATION

                                           By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                          ALLOY RING SERVICE INC.

                                          By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                          DANIEL RADIATOR CORPORATION

                                           By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                          H H PRODUCTIONS, INC.

                                          By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: V.P. and Treasurer

                                          HANDY   HARMAN AUTOMOTIVE
                                          GROUP, INC.

                                           By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                          HANDY   HARMAN INTERNATIONAL,
                                          LTD.

                                          By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                     [SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

                                          HANDY   HARMAN PERU, INC.

                                          By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                          KJ-VMI REALTY, INC.

                                          By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: V.P. and Treasurer

                                          PAL-RATH REALTY, INC.

                                           By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                          PLATINA LABORATORIES, INC.

                                          By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: V.P. and Treasurer

SHEFFIELD STREET CORPORATION

                                           By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

                                          SWM, INC.

                                          By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: V.P. and Treasurer

WILLING B WIRE CORPORATION

                                           By: /s/ Dennis Kelly
                                              ----------------------------------
                                          Title: Vice President and Treasurer

Schedule 1.30-A

    Net Loss Attributed to Maryland Specialty Wire, Inc. for the quarters ended:

    March 31, 2004                        $0

    June 30, 2004                 $1,303,000

    September 30, 2004            $1,901,000

    December 31, 2004             $5,293,000

    March 31, 2005                $3,638,000

    June 30, 2005                   $750,000
                                 -----------

    Total                        $12,885,000
                                  ===========

Schedule 1.30-B

    Charge Attributed to Fairfield facility for December 31, 2004: $3,523,000

</EX-4.15>

<EX-4.16>
 10
 ex416to10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 4.16

AMENDMENT NO. 3 AND WAIVER TO LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT

     AMENDMENT NO. 3 AND WAIVER TO LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT (this "Amendment
No. 3"), dated as of December 29, 2005, by and among Handy   Harman, a New York
corporation ("Parent"), OMG, Inc., a Delaware corporation, ("OMG"), Continental
Industries, Inc., an Oklahoma corporation ("Continental"), Maryland Specialty
Wire, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Maryland Wire"), Handy   Harman Tube
Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("H H Tube"), Camdel Metals Corporation, a
Delaware corporation ("Camdel"), Canfield Metal Coating Corporation, a Delaware
corporation ("Canfield"), Micro-Tube Fabricators, Inc., a Delaware corporation
("Micro-Tube"), Indiana Tube Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Indiana
Tube"), Lucas-Milhaupt, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation ("Lucas"), Handy   Harman
Electronic Materials Corporation, a Florida corporation ("H H Electronic"),
Sumco Inc., an Indiana corporation ("Sumco" and together with Parent, OMG,
Continental, Maryland Wire, H H Tube, Camdel, Canfield, Micro-Tube, Indiana
Tube, Lucas and H H Electronic, each individually, a "Borrower" and
collectively, "Borrowers"), Handy   Harman of Canada, Limited, an Ontario
corporation ("H H Canada"), ele Corporation, a California corporation ("ele"),
Alloy Ring Service Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Alloy"), Daniel Radiator
Corporation, a Texas corporation ("Daniel"), H H Productions, Inc., a Delaware
corporation ("H H Productions"), Handy   Harman Automotive Group, Inc., a
Delaware corporation ("H H Auto"), Handy   Harman International, Ltd., a
Delaware corporation ("H H International"), Handy   Harman Peru, Inc., a
Delaware corporation ("H H Peru"), KJ-VMI Realty, Inc., a Delaware corporation
("KVR"), Pal-Rath Realty, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Pal-Rath"), Platina
Laboratories, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Platina"), Sheffield Street
Corporation, a Connecticut corporation ("Sheffield"), SWM, Inc., a Delaware
corporation ("SWM") and Willing B Wire Corporation, a Delaware corporation
("Willing" and together with each of H H Canada, ele, Alloy, Daniel, H H
Productions, H H Auto, H H International, H H Peru, KVR, Pal-Rath, Platina,
Sheffield and SWM, each individually, a "Guarantor" and collectively,
"Guarantors"), Steel Partners II, L.P., successor by assignment from Canpartners
Investments IV, LLC, in its capacity as agent pursuant to the Loan Agreement (as
hereinafter defined) acting for the financial institutions party thereto as
lenders (in such capacity, together with its successors and assigns, "Agent"),
and the financial institutions party thereto as lenders (collectively,
"Lenders"). Capitalized terms used herein which are not otherwise defined herein
shall have the respective meanings ascribed thereto in the Loan Agreement.

                              W I T N E S S E T H:
                              - - - - - - - - - -

     WHEREAS, Agent, Lenders, Borrowers and Guarantors have entered into
financing arrangements pursuant to which Lenders (or Agent on behalf of Lenders)
have made and may make loans and advances and provide other financial
accommodations to Borrowers as set forth in the Loan and Security Agreement,
dated as of March 31, 2004, by and among Agent, successor by assignment to Steel
Partners II, L.P., Lenders, Borrowers and Guarantors (as amended by Amendment
No. 1 to Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of October 29, 2004, Amendment
No. 2 to Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of May 20, 2005, and as the same
may hereafter be further amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed,
restated or replaced, the "Loan Agreement"), and the other agreements, documents
and instruments referred to therein or at any time executed and/or delivered in
connection therewith or related thereto (all of the foregoing, together with the

Loan Agreement, as the same now exist or may hereafter be amended, modified,
supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced, being collectively
referred to herein as the "Financing Agreements");

     WHEREAS, upon the effective date of this Amendment No. 3 and Waiver to Loan
and Security Agreement, Lender shall extend an additional $10,000,000 to
Borrowers and Guarantors;

     WHEREAS, Borrowers and Guarantors have requested that Agent and Lenders
agree to (a) waive certain defaults under the Loan Agreement and (b) make
certain related amendments to the Loan Agreement, and Agent and Lenders are
willing to agree to such amendments and to grant such waivers, subject to the
terms and conditions contained herein; and

     WHEREAS, by this Amendment No. 3, Borrowers, Guarantors, Agent and Lenders
desire and intend to evidence such consents and amendments;

     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and the respective
agreements and covenants contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:

     1.   AMENDMENT TO DEFINITION. The definition of "Maximum Credit" in Section
1.73 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by deleting $71,000,000 and
replacing it with $81,000,000. In addition, all other references in the Loan and
Security Agreement to $71,000,000 shall be changed to $81,000,000.

     2.   ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS. As used herein, the following terms shall have
the following meanings given to them below, and the Loan Agreement and the other
Financing Agreements are hereby amended to include, in addition and not in
limitation, the following:

          (a)  "Amendment No. 3" shall mean Amendment No. 3 and Waiver to Loan
and Security Agreement by and among Borrowers, Guarantors, Agent and the
Lenders, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, modified,
supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

          (b)  "Amendment No. 3 Effective Date" shall mean the first date on
which all of the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of Amendment No. 3
shall have been satisfied or waived.

     3.   EXTENSION OF CREDIT. Upon the effective date of this Amendment No. 3,
Lender shall extend an additional $10,000,000 to Borrowers and Guarantors.

     4.   AMENDMENTS.

          (a)  Section 9.17(a) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting such Section and replacing it with the following:

               "(a) EBITDA. Parent and its Subsidiaries shall not
          permit EBITDA of Parent and its Subsidiaries, on a
          consolidated basis, for each period set forth below to
          be less than the amount set forth below opposite such
          period:

                                2

Period                                 Minimum EBITDA
               ------                                 --------------

          12 months ending
          December 31, 2005                             $22,500,000

          3 months ending March 31,
          2006                                           $5,000,000

          6 months ending June 30,
          2006                                          $13,000,000

          9 months ending
          September 30, 2006                            $20,000,000

          12 months ending
          December 31, 2006 and on
          the last day of each fiscal
          quarter thereafter                            $27,000,000"

(b)  Section 9.17(b) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting such Section and replacing it with the following:

               "(b) FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO. Parent and its
          Subsidiaries shall not permit the Fixed Charge Coverage
          Ratio for each period set forth below to be less than
          the ratio set forth below opposite such period:

                                                        Minimum Fixed
                    Period                          Charge Coverage Ratio
                    ------                          ---------------------

          3 months ending March 31,
          2006                                            0.75 to 1

          6 months ending June 30,
          2006                                               1 to 1

          9 months ending
          September 30, 2006                                 1 to 1

          12 months ending
          December 31, 2006 and on
          the last day of each fiscal
          quarter thereafter                                 1 to 1"

(c)  Section 9.17(c) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting such Section and replacing it with the following:

3

"(c) MAXIMUM CAPITAL EXPENDITURES. Parent and it
          Subsidiaries shall not, directly or indirectly, make or
          commit to make (whether through purchase, capital lease
          or otherwise) Capital Expenditures for each period set
          forth below in an amount in excess of the amount set
          forth below opposite such period:

                                                         Maximum
                    Period                         Capital Expenditures
                    ------                         --------------------

          3 months ending March 31,
          2006                                           $3,000,000

          6 months ending June 30,
          2006                                           $6,000,000

          9 months ending
          September 30, 2006                             $9,000,000

          12 months ending
          December 31, 2006 and on
          the last day of each fiscal
          quarter thereafter                            $12,000,000"

(d)  Section 9.17(d) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting such Section in its entirety and replacing it with the following: "(d)
[Intentionally Deleted]".

     5.   WAIVER OF EVENTS OF DEFAULT.

          (a)  Subject to the terms and conditions contained herein, Agent and
Required Lenders hereby waive the following Events of Default arising under
Section 10.1(a)(iii) of the Loan Agreement (collectively, the "Existing
Defaults"):

               (i)   the Event of Default arising as a result of the failure of
Parent and its Subsidiaries to maintain minimum EBITDA for the fiscal quarter
ending September 30, 2005 as required under Section 9.17(a) of the Loan
Agreement;

               (ii)  the Event of Default arising as a result of the failure of
Parent and its Subsidiaries to maintain the minimum Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
for the 9 month period ending September 30, 2005 as required under Section
9.17(b) of the Loan Agreement; and

               (iii) the Event of Default arising as a result of the failure of
Parent and its Subsidiaries to maintain the maximum Leverage Ratio with respect
to the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2005 as required under Section
9.17(d) of the Loan Agreement.

          (b)  Agent and Lenders have not waived and are not by this Amendment
No. 3 agreement waiving, and have no present intention of waiving, any other
Events of Default, which may have occurred prior to the date hereof, or may be
continuing on the date hereof or any Event of Default which may occur after the

4

date hereof, other than the Existing Defaults, whether the same or similar to
the Existing Defaults or otherwise. Agent and Lenders reserve the right, in
their discretion, to exercise any or all of its or their rights and remedies
arising under the Financing Agreements, applicable law or otherwise, as a result
of any other Events of Default which may have occurred prior to the date hereof,
or are continuing on the date hereof, or any Event of Default which may occur
after the date hereof, whether the same or similar to the Existing Defaults.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as a waiver of the failure of
Borrowers and Guarantors to comply with the terms of the Loan Agreement and the
other Financing Agreements after the date hereof.

     6.   REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS. Each Borrower and Guarantor
hereby represents, warrants and covenants to Agent and Lenders the following
(which shall survive the execution and delivery of this Amendment No. 3), the
truth and accuracy of which are a continuing condition of the making of Loans
and providing Letter of Credit Accommodations to Borrowers:

          (a)  This Amendment No. 3 and each other agreement or instrument to be
executed and delivered by Borrowers and Guarantors in connection herewith
(collectively, together with this Amendment No. 3, the "Amendment Documents")
have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by all necessary action on the
part of each of the Borrowers and Guarantors which is a party hereto and thereto
and, if necessary, their respective stockholders and is in full force and effect
as of the date hereof and the agreements and obligations of each of the
Borrowers and Guarantors contained herein and therein constitute the legal,
valid and binding obligations of each of the Borrowers and Guarantors,
enforceable against them in accordance with their terms, except as
enforceability is limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium
or other laws relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights
generally and except to the extent that availability of the remedy of specific
performance or injunctive relief is subject to the discretion of the court
before which any proceeding therefor may be brought.

          (b)  The execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment No. 3
and the other Amendment Documents, (a) are all within each Borrower's and
Guarantor's corporate or limited liability company powers and (b) are not in
contravention of law or the terms of any Borrower's or Guarantor's certificate
or articles of incorporation, by laws, or other organizational documentation, or
any indenture, agreement or undertaking to which any Borrower or Guarantor is a
party or by which any Borrower or Guarantor or its property are bound.

          (c)  After giving effect to the provisions of this Amendment No. 3,
including, without limitation, the waivers set forth in Section 4 hereof, no
Default or Event of Default exists or has occurred and is continuing.

          (d)  The Working Capital Amendment (as defined hereinafter) has been
executed and delivered by all parties and is in full force and effect.

          (e)  All of the representations and warranties set forth in the Loan
Agreement and the other Financing Agreements, each as amended hereby, are true
and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof, as if made on

5

the date hereof, except to the extent any such representation or warranty is
made as of a specified date, in which case such representation or warranty shall
have been true and correct as of such date.

     7.   CONDITIONS PRECEDENT. The provisions contained herein shall only be
effective upon the satisfaction of each of the following conditions precedent in
a manner satisfactory to Agent:

          (a)  Agent shall have received this Amendment No. 3, duly authorized,
executed and delivered by Borrowers, Guarantors and Lenders;

          (b)  Agent shall have received a true and correct copy of any consent,
waiver or approval to or of this Amendment No. 3 or any other Amendment
Documents which any Borrower or Guarantor is required to obtain from any other
Person, and such consent, waiver or approval shall in form and substance
satisfactory to Agent;

          (c)  After giving effect to the provisions of this Amendment No. 3,
including, without limitation, the waivers set forth in Section 4 hereof, no
Default or Event of Default exists or has occurred and is continuing.

          (d)  Agent shall have received (i) an amendment and waiver to the
Working Capital Loan Agreement (the "Working Capital Amendment"), in form and
substance satisfactory to Agent, duly authorized, executed and delivered by each
of the parties thereto, which Working Capital Amendment shall be in full force
and effect, and (ii) an amendment to the Intercreditor Agreement (the
"Intercreditor Amendment"), in form and substance satisfactory to Agent, duly
authorized, executed and delivered by Working Capital Amendment Agent and
acknowledged by Borrowers and Guarantors, which Intercreditor Amendment shall be
in full force and effect.

     8.   EFFECT OF THIS AGREEMENT. Except as expressly amended pursuant hereto,
no other changes or modifications to the Financing Agreements are intended or
implied, and, in all other respects, the Financing Agreements are hereby
specifically ratified, restated and confirmed by all parties hereto as of the
Amendment No. 3 Effective Date. To the extent that any provision of the Loan
Agreement or any of the other Financing Agreements are inconsistent with the
provisions of this Amendment No. 3, the provisions of this Amendment No. 3 shall
control.

     9.   FURTHER ASSURANCES. Borrowers and Guarantors shall execute and deliver
such additional documents and take such additional action as may be requested by
Agent to effectuate the provisions and purposes of this Amendment No. 3.

     10.  GOVERNING LAW. The validity, interpretation and enforcement of this
Agreement and the other Financing Agreements (except as otherwise provided
therein) and any dispute arising out of the relationship between the parties
hereto, whether in contract, tort, equity or otherwise, shall be governed by the
internal laws of the State of New York but excluding any principles of conflicts
of law or other rule of law that would cause the application of the law of any
jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of New York.

                                       6

11.  BINDING EFFECT. This Amendment No. 3 shall be binding upon and inure
to the benefit of each of the parties hereto and their respective successors and
assigns.

     12.  HEADINGS. The headings listed herein are for convenience only and do
not constitute matters to be construed in interpreting this Amendment No. 3.

     13.  COUNTERPARTS. This Amendment No. 3 may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but all of which taken
together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed
counterpart of this Amendment No. 3 by telefacsimile or other electronic method
of transmission shall have the same force and effect as the delivery of an
original executed counterpart of this Amendment No. 3. Any party delivering an
executed counterpart of this Amendment No. 3 by telefacsimile or other
electronic method of transmission shall also deliver an original executed
counterpart, but the failure to do so shall not affect the validity,
enforceability or binding effect of such agreement.

[REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

7

IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the parties  hereto have caused this Amendment
No. 3 to be executed on the day and year first above written.

AGENT                                        BORROWERS

STEEL PARTNERS II, L.P., as Agent            HANDY   HARMAN

By:  /s/ Glen Kassan                         By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
   -------------------------------                -------------------------------

Title: Exec. V.P. of Steel Partners,         Title:  Vice President and CFO
       L.L.C., General Partner                      ----------------------------
      ----------------------------

OMG, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

CONTINENTAL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

                                             MARYLAND SPECIALTY WIRE, INC.

                                             By:   /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President, CFO and
                                                    Secretary
                                                   -----------------------------

                                             HANDY   HARMAN TUBE COMPANY, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

                     [SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

                                       8

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

                                             CAMDEL METALS CORPORATION

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

                                             CANFIELD METAL COATING CORPORATION

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

MICRO-TUBE FABRICATORS, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

INDIANA TUBE CORPORATION

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

LUCAS-MILHAUPT, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

HANDY   HARMAN ELECTRONIC
                                             MATERIALS CORPORATION

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

SUMCO INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

                                       9

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

GUARANTORS

HANDY   HARMAN OF CANADA,
                                             LIMITED

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

ELE CORPORATION

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

ALLOY RING SERVICE INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

DANIEL RADIATOR CORPORATION

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President, Treasurer
                                                    and Controller
                                                   -----------------------------

H H PRODUCTIONS, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

HANDY   HARMAN AUTOMOTIVE
                                             GROUP, INC.

                                             By:   /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President, Treasurer
                                                    and Assistant Secretary
                                                   -----------------------------

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

                                       10

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

HANDY   HARMAN INTERNATIONAL,
                                             LTD.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

HANDY   HARMAN PERU, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

KJ-VMI REALTY, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

PAL-RATH REALTY, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

PLATINA LABORATORIES, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

SHEFFIELD STREET CORPORATION

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

                     [SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

                                       11

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

                                             SWM, INC.

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

WILLING B WIRE CORPORATION

                                             By:    /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

12

</EX-4.16>

<EX-4.17>
 11
 ex417to10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 4.17

CONSENT AND AMENDMENT NO. 4 TO LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT

CONSENT AND AMENDMENT NO. 4 TO LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT (this "Amendment
No. 4"), dated as of January 24, 2006, by and among Handy   Harman, a New York
corporation ("H H"), OMG, Inc., a Delaware corporation formerly known as Olympic
Manufacturing Group, Inc. ("OMG"), Continental Industries, Inc., an Oklahoma
corporation ("Continental"), Maryland Specialty Wire, Inc., a Delaware
corporation ("Maryland Wire"), Handy   Harman Tube Company, Inc., a Delaware
corporation ("H H Tube"), Camdel Metals Corporation, a Delaware corporation
("Camdel"), Canfield Metal Coating Corporation, a Delaware corporation
("Canfield"), Micro-Tube Fabricators, Inc., a Delaware corporation
("Micro-Tube"), Indiana Tube Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Indiana
Tube"), Lucas-Milhaupt, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation ("Lucas"), Handy   Harman
Electronic Materials Corporation, a Florida corporation ("H H Electronic"),
Sumco Inc., an Indiana corporation ("Sumco" and together with H H, OMG,
Continental, Maryland Wire, H H Tube, Camdel, Canfield, Micro-Tube, Indiana
Tube, Lucas and H H Electronic, each individually, a "Borrower" and
collectively, "Borrowers"), Handy   Harman of Canada, Limited, an Ontario
corporation ("H H Canada"), ele Corporation, a California corporation ("ele"),
Alloy Ring Service Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Alloy"), Daniel Radiator
Corporation, a Texas corporation ("Daniel"), H H Productions, Inc., a Delaware
corporation ("H H Productions"), Handy   Harman Automotive Group, Inc., a
Delaware corporation ("H H Auto"), Handy   Harman International, Ltd., a
Delaware corporation ("H H International"), Handy   Harman Peru, Inc., a
Delaware corporation ("H H Peru"), KJ-VMI Realty, Inc., a Delaware corporation
("KVR"), Pal-Rath Realty, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Pal-Rath"), Platina
Laboratories, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Platina"), Sheffield Street
Corporation, a Connecticut corporation ("Sheffield"), SWM, Inc., a Delaware
corporation ("SWM"), Willing B Wire Corporation, a Delaware corporation
("Willing" and together with H H Canada, ele, Alloy, Daniel, H H Productions,
H H Auto, H H International, H H Peru, KVR, Pal-Rath, Platina, Sheffield and
SWM, each individually, a "Guarantor" and collectively, "Guarantors"), Steel
Partners II, L.P., successor by assignment from Canpartners Investments IV, LLC,
in its capacity as agent pursuant to the Loan Agreement (as hereinafter defined)
acting for the financial institutions party thereto as lenders (in such
capacity, together with its successors and assigns, "Agent"), and the financial
institutions party thereto as lenders (collectively, "Lenders"). Capitalized
terms used herein which are not otherwise defined herein shall have the
respective meanings ascribed thereto in the Loan Agreement.

                              W I T N E S S E T H:
                              - - - - - - - - - -

     WHEREAS, Agent, Lenders, Borrowers and Guarantors have entered into
financing arrangements pursuant to which Lenders (or Agent on behalf of Lenders)
have made and may make loans and advances and provide other financial
accommodations to Borrowers as set forth in the Loan and Security Agreement,
dated as of March 31, 2004, by and among Agent, successor by assignment to Steel
Partners II, L.P., Lenders, Borrowers and Guarantors (as amended by Amendment
No. 1 to Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of October 29, 2004, Amendment
No. 2 to Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of May 20, 2005, Amendment No. 3

to Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of December 29, 2005, and as the same
may hereafter be further amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed,
restated or replaced, the "Loan Agreement"), and the other agreements, documents
and instruments referred to therein or at any time executed and/or delivered in
connection therewith or related thereto (all of the foregoing, together with the
Loan Agreement, as the same now exist or may hereafter be amended, modified,
supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced, being collectively
referred to herein as the "Financing Agreements");

     WHEREAS, the Borrowers have informed Agent and Lenders that OMG proposes to
enter into a financing transaction with Sovereign Bank ("Sovereign") as set
forth in the Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of January 24, 2006 (the
"Sovereign Loan Agreement" and together with all agreements, documents and
instruments executed and/or delivered by or on behalf of any Borrower or Obligor
in connection therewith, the "Sovereign Loan Documents") in which, upon the
terms and conditions set forth herein, (a) Agent shall release and terminate its
security interests in and liens upon the Real Property of OMG located in Agawam,
Massachusetts (the "Massachusetts Real Property"); (b) OMG shall grant a
security interest and lien upon the Massachusetts Real Property in favor of
Sovereign; and (c) Sovereign will make a term loan to OMG in the principal
amount of $8,000,000 to be secured by a security interest and lien upon the
Massachusetts Real Property;

     WHEREAS, Borrowers and Guarantors have informed Agent and Lenders that Fisk
Alloy Conductors, Inc., a New Jersey Corporation ("Buyer") and Maryland Wire, as
seller, have entered into the Agreement for Purchase and Sale of Assets, dated
as of January 31, 2006 (the "Purchase Agreement" and together with all
agreements, documents, and instruments executed and/or delivered by or on behalf
of any Borrower or Obligor in connection therewith, the "Purchase Documents"),
pursuant to which, among other things, Maryland Wire agrees to sell to Buyer all
of the right, title and interest of Maryland Wire in and to its fee simple
interest in the real property and improvements located at 6149 Sutliff Road,
Oriskany, New York, as more fully described on Schedule 1 hereto and to the
machinery and equipment located on such real property as more fully described on
Schedule 1 hereto (collectively, the "New York Real Property");

     WHEREAS, Borrowers and Guarantors have requested that Agent and Lenders
provide certain consents and amendments to the Loan Agreement and the other
Financing Agreements, and Agent and Lenders are willing to agree to such
consents and to grant such amendments, subject to the terms and conditions
contained herein; and

     WHEREAS, by this Amendment No. 4, Borrowers, Guarantors, Agent and Lenders
desire and intend to evidence such consents and amendments;

     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and the respective
agreements and covenants contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:

     1.   ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS. As used herein, the following terms shall have
the following meanings given to them below, and the Loan Agreement and the other
Financing Agreements are hereby amended to include, in addition and not in
limitation, the following:

                                        2

(a)  "Amendment No. 4" shall mean Consent and Amendment No. 4 to Loan
and Security Agreement by and among Borrowers, Guarantors, Agent and the
Lenders, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, modified,
supplemented, extended, renewed, restated or replaced.

          (b)  "Amendment No. 4 Effective Date" shall mean the first date on
which all of the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of Amendment No. 4
shall have been satisfied or waived.

     2.   INDEBTEDNESS. Section 9.9(b) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended
by deleting "$500,000" and replacing it with "$3,000,000".

     3.   EVENTS OF DEFAULT. Section 10.1(i) of the Loan Agreement is hereby
amended by deleting "the Working Capital Debt" and replacing it with "the
Working Capital Debt or the Sovereign Debt (as defined in Amendment No. 4)".

     4.   CONSENT TO REFINANCING OF MASSACHUSETTS REAL PROPERTY.

          (a)  Subject to the terms and conditions contained herein, to the
extent such consents are or may be required under the Loan Agreement, and
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Sections 9.8 and 9.9 of
the Loan Agreement, Agent and Lenders hereby consent to (i) the incurrence by
OMG of Indebtedness of OMG to Sovereign evidenced by or arising from a term loan
made by Sovereign to OMG (the "Sovereign Debt") and (ii) the grant by OMG of a
security interest and lien upon the Massachusetts Real Property in favor of
Sovereign to secure the Sovereign Debt, in each case in accordance with the
terms of the Sovereign Loan Documents (as in effect on the date hereof);
PROVIDED, THAT, each of the following conditions is satisfied as determined by
Agent:

                    (A)  the principal amount of the Sovereign Debt shall not
exceed $8,000,000 less the aggregate amount of all repayments, repurchases or
redemptions thereof, whether optional or mandatory;

                    (B)  the Sovereign Debt shall be on terms and conditions
acceptable to Agent;

                    (C)  Agent shall have received true, correct and complete
copies of the Sovereign Loan Documents, which shall be in form and substance
satisfactory to Agent, as duly executed and delivered by the parties thereto;

                    (D)  Borrowers and Guarantors shall not (1) make any
voluntary prepayments in respect of the Sovereign Debt or (2) directly or
indirectly redeem, retire, defease, purchase or otherwise acquire the Sovereign
Debt, or set aside or deposit or invest any sums for such purpose;

                    (E)  Agent shall have received an access and use agreement,
in form and substance satisfactory to Agent, duly authorized, executed and
delivered by Sovereign;

                                       3

(F)  on the date of the incurrence of the Sovereign Debt and
after giving effect thereto, no Default or Event of Default shall exist or have
occurred and be continuing;

                    (G)  the closing of the Sovereign Debt shall have been
consummated and each of the conditions set forth in this Section 5(a) above
shall have been satisfied on or before February 10, 2006; and

                    (H)  Borrowers and Guarantors shall furnish to Agent all
notices of default or demands for payment in connection with the Sovereign Debt
received by such Borrower or Guarantor or on its behalf promptly after the
receipt thereof.

          (b)  Upon the closing of the transactions contemplated by the
Sovereign Loan Agreement and upon the satisfaction of the conditions set forth
in Sections 4(a) and 7 hereof, Agent shall release and terminate its security
interests in and liens upon the Massachusetts Real Property; PROVIDED, THAT,
nothing contained in this Section 4(b) shall be deemed a release or termination
by Agent of any security interests in and liens upon any assets of Borrowers or
Obligors other than the Massachusetts Real Property, all of which shall continue
in full force and effect. Except as specifically set forth herein, nothing
contained herein shall be construed in any manner to constitute a waiver,
release or termination or to otherwise limit or impair any of the obligations or
indebtedness of any Borrower, any Obligor or any other person or entity to Agent
and Lenders, or any duties, obligations or responsibilities of Borrowers,
Obligors or any other person or entity to Agent and Lenders.

     5.   CONSENT TO SALE OF REAL PROPERTY BY MARYLAND WIRE.

          (a)  Subject to the terms and conditions contained herein, to the
extent such consents are or may be required under the Loan Agreement, and
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section 9.7 of the Loan
Agreement, Agent and Lenders hereby consent to the sale by Maryland Wire of the
New York Real Property in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement
(as in effect on the date thereof); PROVIDED, THAT, each of the following
conditions precedent is satisfied as determined by Agent:

               (i)   Agent shall have received (A) an executed copy of the Deed
by Maryland Wire transferring the New York Real Property to Buyer, (B) a copy of
the Closing Statement executed by Maryland Wire and Buyer and (C) a copy of the
Mortgage Satisfaction with respect to the New York Real Property executed by
Working Capital Agent;

               (ii)  Agent shall have received, in form and substance
satisfactory to Agent, true, correct and complete copies of the following
documents, each duly authorized, executed and delivered by the parties thereto:
(A) the Purchase Agreement and the other material Purchase Documents and (B) any
consent, waiver or approval to or of the sale of the New York Real Property,
which any Borrower or Obligor is required to obtain from any other Person;

               (iii) after the date hereof, none of Maryland Wire or any other
Borrower or Guarantor shall have entered into any amendment, supplement or
modification to any of the Purchase Documents without the prior written consent
of Agent;

                                       4

(iv)  the sale of the New York Real Property shall have been
consummated and each of the conditions set forth in this Section 6(a) above
shall have been satisfied on or before February 17, 2006; and

               (v)   no Default or Event of Default shall exist or have occurred
and be continuing.

          (b)  Upon the closing of the sale of the New York Real Property in
accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement and upon the satisfaction of
the conditions set forth in Sections 5(a) and 7 hereof, Agent shall release and
terminate its security interests in and liens upon the New York Real Property;
PROVIDED, THAT, nothing contained in this Section 5(b) shall be deemed a release
or termination by Agent or any security interests in and liens upon any assets
of Borrowers or Obligors other than the New York Real Property, all of which
shall continue in full force and effect. Except as specifically set forth
herein, nothing contained herein shall be construed in any manner to constitute
a waiver, release or termination or to otherwise limit or impair any of the
obligations or indebtedness of any Borrower, any Obligor or any other person or
entity to Agent and Lenders, or any duties, obligations or responsibilities of
Borrowers, Obligors or any other person or entity to Agent and Lenders.

     6.   REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS. Each Borrower and Guarantor
hereby represents, warrants and covenants to Agent and Lenders the following
(which shall survive the execution and delivery of this Amendment No. 4), the
truth and accuracy of which representations and warranties are a continuing
condition of the making of Loans and providing Letter of Credit Accommodations
to Borrowers:

          (a)  this Amendment No. 4 and each other agreement or instrument to be
executed and delivered by Borrowers and Guarantors in connection herewith
(collectively, together with this Amendment No. 4, the "Amendment Documents")
have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by all necessary action on the
part of each of the Borrowers and Guarantors which is a party hereto and thereto
and, if necessary, their respective stockholders and is in full force and effect
as of the date hereof and the agreements and obligations of each of the
Borrowers and Guarantors contained herein and therein constitute the legal,
valid and binding obligations of each of the Borrowers and Guarantors,
enforceable against them in accordance with their terms, except as
enforceability is limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium
or other laws relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights
generally and except to the extent that availability of the remedy of specific
performance or injunctive relief is subject to the discretion of the court
before which any proceeding therefor may be brought;

          (b)  the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment No. 4
and the other Amendment Documents, (a) are all within each Borrower's and
Guarantor's corporate powers and (b) are not in contravention of law or the
terms of any Borrower's or Guarantor's certificate or articles of incorporation,
by laws, or other organizational documentation, or any indenture, agreement or
undertaking (including, without limitation, the Working Capital Loan Agreement)
to which any Borrower or Guarantor is a party or by which any Borrower or
Guarantor or its property are bound;

                                       5

(c)  no Default or Event of Default exists or has occurred and is continuing;

          (d)  the Working Capital Amendment (as defined below) has been
executed and delivered by all parties thereto and is in full force and effect;

          (e)  Borrowers and Guarantors have delivered to Agent true, correct
and complete copies of the Sovereign Loan Agreement, the Purchase Agreement and
all other material Sovereign Loan Documents and Purchase Documents, together
with all exhibits and schedules thereto, as executed and delivered by the
parties thereto;

          (f)  the sale of New York Real Property in no way limits, impairs or
adversely affects the Obligations howsoever arising, or (except as expressly
provided in Section 5(b) hereof) any security interest or liens securing the
same and such security interests and liens shall continue to be in full force
and effect, including, but not limited to, all amounts at any time payable to
Maryland Wire or any other Borrower or Guarantor pursuant to any Purchase
Document and all rights, benefits and remedies of Maryland Wire pursuant to any
Purchase Document;

          (g)  all actions and proceedings required by the sale of New York Real
Property, the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Sovereign
Loan Documents or any applicable law or regulation have been taken, and the
transactions required thereunder have been duly and validly taken and
consummated;

          (h)  the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the
Sovereign Loan Documents, the sale of New York Real Property and the related
transactions do not and shall not violate any provision of the Certificate of
Incorporation or By-Laws of any Borrower or Guarantor or any law or regulation
or the terms of any mortgage, deed of trust, security agreement, indenture,
agreement, instrument or undertaking (including, without limitation, the Working
Capital Loan Agreement) to which such Borrower or Guarantor is a party or by
which such Borrower or Guarantor or its or their property are bound, and any
provision of such mortgage, deed of trust, security agreement, indenture,
agreement, instrument or undertaking (including, without limitation, the Working
Capital Loan Agreement) prohibiting the consummation of the transactions
contemplated by the Sovereign Loan Documents, the sale of New York Real Property
and the related transactions has been previously consented to or waived by the
applicable party or parties;

          (i)  the net purchase price payable by Buyer to Maryland Wire in
respect of the sale of the New York Real Property on the closing date of such
sale shall not be less than [$1,400,000];

          (j)  in the event Maryland Wire or any other Borrower or Obligor
receives any Net Cash Proceeds from the sale of the New York Real Property after
the closing date of such sale, such amounts shall be collected by Maryland Wire
and the other Borrowers and Obligors, as the case may be, as the property of
Agent and held by it or them in trust for Agent, and on the date received,
Maryland Wire and such other Borrower or Obligor shall remit such amounts to
Agent in the form received, with any necessary assignments or endorsements, for

6

application by Agent to the outstanding principal amount of the Obligations in
accordance with Section 2.3(c) of the Loan Agreement;

          (k)  if Maryland Wire or any other Borrower or Obligor pays (or is
required to pay) any purchase price adjustment or other amount pursuant to the
Purchase Documents, Maryland Wire or such other Borrower or Obligor shall give
Agent prompt written notice thereof, together with such information relating
thereto as Agent may request from time to time;

          (l)  no court of competent jurisdiction has issued any injunction,
restraining order or other order which prohibits consummation of the
transactions contemplated by the Sovereign Loan Documents or the Purchase
Documents, and no governmental action or proceeding has been threatened or
commenced seeking any injunction, restraining order or other order seeking to
void or otherwise modify the transactions described herein or therein; and

          (m)  all of the representations and warranties set forth in the Loan
Agreement and the other Financing Agreements, each as amended hereby, are true
and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof, as if made on
the date hereof, except to the extent any such representation or warranty is
made as of a specified date, in which case such representation or warranty shall
have been true and correct as of such date.

     7.   CONDITIONS PRECEDENT. The provisions contained herein shall only be effective
upon the satisfaction of each of the following  conditions precedent in a manner
satisfactory to Agent:

          (a)  Agent shall have received this Amendment No. 4, duly authorized,
executed and delivered by Borrowers, Guarantors and Required Lenders;

          (b)  Agent shall have received a consent and amendment to the Working
Capital Loan Agreement (the "Working Capital Amendment"), in form and substance
satisfactory to Agent, duly authorized, executed and delivered by each of the
parties thereto, which Working Capital Amendment shall be in full force and
effect;

          (c)  Agent shall have received a true and correct copy of any consent,
waiver or approval to or of this Amendment No. 4 or any other Amendment
Documents which any Borrower or Guarantor is required to obtain from any other
Person, and such consent, waiver or approval shall in form and substance
satisfactory to Agent; and

          (d)  no Default or Event of Default shall exist or have occurred and
be continuing.

     8.   EFFECT OF THIS AGREEMENT. Except as expressly amended pursuant hereto
and except for the consents expressly granted herein, no other changes or
modifications to the Financing Agreements are intended or implied, and in all
other respects the Financing Agreements are hereby specifically ratified,
restated and confirmed by all parties hereto as of the Amendment No. 4 Effective
Date. To the extent that any provision of the Loan Agreement or any of the other
Financing Agreements are inconsistent with the provisions of this Amendment No.
4, the provisions of this Amendment No. 4 shall control.

                                       7

9.   FURTHER ASSURANCES. Borrowers and Guarantors shall execute and deliver
such additional documents and take such additional action as may be requested by
Agent to effectuate the provisions and purposes of this Amendment No. 4.

     10.  GOVERNING LAW. The validity, interpretation and enforcement of this
Amendment No. 4 and the other Financing Agreements (except as otherwise provided
therein) and any dispute arising out of the relationship between the parties
hereto, whether in contract, tort, equity or otherwise, shall be governed by the
internal laws of the State of New York but excluding any principles of conflicts
of law or other rule of law that would cause the application of the law of any
jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of New York.

     11.  BINDING EFFECT. This Amendment No. 4 shall be binding upon and inure
to the benefit of each of the parties hereto and their respective successors and
assigns.

     12.  HEADINGS. The headings listed herein are for convenience only and do
not constitute matters to be construed in interpreting this Amendment No. 4.

     13.  COUNTERPARTS. This Amendment No. 4 may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but all of which taken
together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed
counterpart of this Amendment No. 4 by telefacsimile or other electronic method
of transmission shall have the same force and effect as the delivery of an
original executed counterpart of this Amendment No. 4. Any party delivering an
executed counterpart of this Amendment No. 4 by telefacsimile or other
electronic method of transmission shall also deliver an original executed
counterpart, but the failure to do so shall not affect the validity,
enforceability or binding effect of this Amendment No. 4.

[REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

8

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment No. 4 to
be executed on the day and year first above written.

AGENT                                        BORROWERS

STEEL PARTNERS II, L.P., as Agent and
Lender
                                             HANDY   HARMAN
By: STEEL PARTNERS, L.L.C., as general
partner                                      By:  /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
By: /s/ Warren Lichtenstein                  Title:  Vice President and Chief
    ----------------------------                     Financial Officer
                                                    ----------------------------

Title: Managing Member
       ------------------------

                                             OMG, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                 -------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                    ----------------------------

CONTINENTAL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

                                             MARYLAND SPECIALTY WIRE, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President, CFO and
                                                    Secretary
                                                   -----------------------------

                                             HANDY   HARMAN TUBE COMPANY, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------

                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

                     [SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

                                             CAMDEL METALS CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

                                             CANFIELD METAL COATING CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

MICRO-TUBE FABRICATORS, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

INDIANA TUBE CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

LUCAS-MILHAUPT, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

HANDY   HARMAN ELECTRONIC
                                             MATERIALS CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

SUMCO INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

GUARANTORS

HANDY   HARMAN OF CANADA,
                                             LIMITED

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

ELE CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

ALLOY RING SERVICE INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

DANIEL RADIATOR CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President, Treasurer
                                                    and Controller
                                                   -----------------------------

H H PRODUCTIONS, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

HANDY   HARMAN AUTOMOTIVE
                                             GROUP, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: VP, Treasurer and Assistant
                                                    Secretary
                                                   -----------------------------

HANDY   HARMAN INTERNATIONAL,
                                             LTD.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE]

[SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE]

HANDY   HARMAN PERU, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

KJ-VMI REALTY, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

PAL-RATH REALTY, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

PLATINA LABORATORIES, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

SHEFFIELD STREET CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

SWM, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

WILLING B WIRE CORPORATION

                                             By: /s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Title: Vice President and Treasurer
                                                   -----------------------------

SCHEDULE 1
                                       TO
           CONSENT AND AMENDMENT NO. 4 TO LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT

DESCRIPTION OF NEW YORK REAL PROPERTY

</EX-4.17>

<EX-10.4>
 12
 ex104to10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 10.4

WARRANT AGREEMENT

WHX CORPORATION

                                       AND

                          EQUISERVE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.
                                AS WARRANT AGENT

                            DATED AS OF JULY 29, 2005

                              WARRANTS TO PURCHASE
                             SHARES OF COMMON STOCK

TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                            PAGE
                                                                            ----

ARTICLE 1  DEFINITIONS.........................................................1

     Section 1.01.  Definitions................................................1

     Section 1.02.  Rules of Construction......................................3

ARTICLE 2  APPOINTMENT OF WARRANT AGENT........................................4

ARTICLE 3  THE WARRANTS........................................................4

     Section 3.01.  Form and Dating; Legends...................................4

     Section 3.02.  Execution and Countersignature.............................4

     Section 3.03.  Registrar..................................................4

     Section 3.04.  Replacement Warrant Certificates...........................4

     Section 3.05.  Outstanding Warrants.......................................5

     Section 3.06.  Temporary Warrant Certificates.............................5

     Section 3.07.  Cancellation...............................................5

     Section 3.08.  CUSIP and CINS Numbers.....................................5

     Section 3.09.  Registration, Transfer and Exchange........................6

ARTICLE 4  TERMS OF WARRANTS; EXERCISE OF WARRANTS.............................7

     Section 4.01.  Terms of Warrants; Exercise of Warrants....................7

ARTICLE 5  COVENANTS OF THE COMPANY............................................8

     Section 5.01.  Maintenance of Office or Agency............................8

     Section 5.02.  Payment of Taxes...........................................8

     Section 5.03.  Reservation of Warrant Shares..............................8

     Section 5.04.  Stock Exchange Listings....................................9

ARTICLE 6  ADJUSTMENT OF EXERCISE PRICE AND NUMBER OF WARRANT SHARES
ISSUABLE.......................................................................9

     Section 6.01.  Adjustment of Exercise Price and Number of
                    Warrant Shares Issuable....................................9

     Section 6.02.  Fractional Interests......................................10

     Section 6.03.  Notices to Holders........................................10

     Section 6.04.  No Rights as Stockholders.................................10

ARTICLE 7  WARRANT AGENT......................................................10

     Section 7.01.  Warrant Agent.............................................10

     Section 7.02.  Individual Rights of Warrant Agent........................13

     Section 7.03.  Compensation and Indemnification of Warrant Agent.........13

     Section 7.04.  Replacement of Warrant Agent..............................13

i

Section 7.05.  Successor Warrant Agent by Merger.........................13

     Section 7.06.  Holder Lists..............................................14

ARTICLE 8  MISCELLANEOUS......................................................14

     Section 8.01.  Notices...................................................14

     Section 8.02.  Supplements and Amendments................................14

     Section 8.03.  Governing Law.............................................16

     Section 8.04.  No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements.............16

     Section 8.05.  Successors................................................16

     Section 8.06.  Counterparts; Multiple Originals..........................16

     Section 8.07.  Separability..............................................16

     Section 8.08.  Table of Contents and Headings............................16

     Section 8.09.  Benefits of this Agreement................................16

     Section 8.10.  Waiver of Jury Trial......................................16

EXHIBIT A  Form of Face of Warrant Certificate

EXHIBIT B  Form of Reverse of Warrant Certificate

EXHIBIT C  DTC Legend

ii

WARRANT  AGREEMENT dated as of July 29, 2005,  between WHX  CORPORATION,  a
Delaware  corporation  (the  "Company"),  and EQUISERVE  TRUST COMPANY,  N.A., a
corporation organized under the laws of Delaware, as warrant agent (the "Warrant
Agent").

     Pursuant to the terms and  conditions of the order dated July 21, 2005 (the
"Confirmation Order") approving and confirming the First Amended Chapter 11 Plan
of  Reorganization  of WHX  Corporation,  dated June 8, 2005, as the same may be
amended, restated or supplemented from time to time (the "Plan") relating to the
reorganization  of the Company under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy  Reform Act of
1978,  as codified in Title 11 of the United  States  Code,  11 U.S.C.  Sections
101-1330 (the "Bankruptcy  Code"),  the Company will issue to the holders of the
Company's  Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock an aggregate of
753,168  warrants (the  "Warrants")  entitling  the Holders  thereof to purchase
shares of common stock,  par value $0.01 per share,  of the Company (the "Common
Stock"),  for a price  of  $11.20  per  share  (as  adjusted  from  time to time
hereunder, the "Exercise Price");

     WHEREAS,  pursuant to the Plan and  Confirmation  Order,  the  Warrants are
being  offered  pursuant  to, and in  reliance  upon the  exemption  afforded by
section 1145(a)(i) of the Bankruptcy Code from the registration  requirements of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,  and of any applicable  state securities
or "blue sky" laws;

     The  Company  wishes  the  Warrant  Agent  to act in  connection  with  the
issuance, exchange, transfer and exercise of the Warrants.

     The Company desires to enter into this Agreement to set forth the terms and
conditions of the Warrants and the rights and  obligations  of the Company,  the
Warrant  Agent  and  the  registered  holders  of  the  certificates  evidencing
Warrants.

     THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the premises and the mutual covenants and
agreements  set forth  herein and in the Plan,  and for other good and  valuable
consideration,  the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the
Company and the Warrant Agent,  intending to be legally  bound,  hereby agree as
follows:

                                    ARTICLE 1
                                   DEFINITIONS

     Section 1.01  DEFINITIONS.  As used in this Agreement,  the following terms
shall have the following respective meanings:

     "Affiliate" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or
indirectly  controlling,  controlled  by,  or under  direct or  indirect  common
control  with,  such  Person.   For  purposes  of  this  definition,   "control"
(including,  with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling," "controlled by"
and  "under  common  control  with")  with  respect  to any  Person,  means  the
possession,  directly  or  indirectly,  of the  power to  direct  or  cause  the
direction of the  management  and policies of such Person,  whether  through the
ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.

     "Agent Member" means a member of, or a participant in, the Depositary.

     "Agreement" means this Warrant  Agreement,  as amended or supplemented from
time to time.

     "Board of Directors"  means the board of directors or comparable  governing
body of the Company,  or any  committee  thereof duly  authorized  to act on its
behalf.

1

"Business  Day"  means any day  except a  Saturday,  Sunday or other day on
which commercial banks in New York City or in the city where the Corporate Trust
Office of the  Warrant  Agent is located  are  authorized  or required by law to
close.

     "Capital Stock" means any and all shares, interests, participations, rights
or other equivalents  (however  designated) of corporate stock or partnership or
membership interests, whether common or preferred.

     "Certificated Warrant" means a Warrant in registered individual form.

     "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.

     "Common  Stock" has the meaning  assigned  to such term in the  preamble of
this Agreement.

     "Company"  means the party named as such in the preamble of this Agreement,
or any successor obligor under this Agreement.

     "Confirmation  Order" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble
of this Agreement.

     "Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Warrant Agent at which the
corporate trust business of the Warrant Agent is principally administered, which
at the Issue Date is located at c/o Computershare  Investor Services, 250 Royall
Street, Canton, MA 02021.

     "Daily  Price" on any day means the last reported sale price for the Common
Stock on the principal exchange or quotation system on which the Common Stock is
listed or  traded.  If the  Common  Stock is not  admitted  for  trading  on any
securities exchange or the Nasdaq National or SmallCap Market,  "Daily Price" on
any day shall mean the average of the last reported closing bid and asked prices
reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market,  Inc.,  the  electronic  securities  market
regulated by the National Association of Securities Dealers,  Inc., as furnished
by any  member  in good  standing  of the  National  Association  of  Securities
Dealers,  Inc., selected from time to time by the Company for that purpose or as
quoted by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated.  In the event that no such
quotation is available  for such day, the "Daily  Price" on any day shall be the
average of the  quotations  for the last five trading days for which a quotation
is  available  within the last 10 trading  days prior to such day.  In the event
that five such  quotations are not available  within such 10-trading day period,
the "Daily Price" shall be determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of
the Company.

     "Depositary"  means the  depositary  of each  Global  Warrant,  which  will
initially be DTC.

     "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company,  a New York corporation,  and its
successors.

     "DTC Legend" means the legend set forth in Exhibit C.

     "Exercise  Price" has the meaning  assigned to such term in the preamble of
this Agreement.

     "Expiration Date" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 4.01(a).

     "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting  principles in the United States
of America as in effect from time to time.

     "Global Warrant" means a Warrant in registered global form.

     "Holder" means the record owner of any Warrant.

                                       2

"Issue  Date" means the date on which the Warrants  are  originally  issued
under this Agreement.

     "NASDAQ"  means  the  National  Association  of  Securities  Dealers,  Inc.
Automated Quotation System.

     "Officer" means the chairman of the Board of Directors,  the president, the
chief executive officer,  any vice president,  the chief financial officer,  the
treasurer  or any  assistant  treasurer,  or  the  secretary  or  any  assistant
secretary, of the Company.

     "Officers'  Certificate"  means a  certificate  signed  in the  name of the
Company by the  chairman of the Board of  Directors,  the  president,  the chief
executive  officer,  any  vice  president,  the  chief  financial  officer,  the
treasurer or any assistant treasurer of the Company.

     "Opinion of Counsel" means a written  opinion signed by the Company's legal
counsel, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Warrant Agent.

     "Person" means an  individual,  a  corporation,  a  partnership,  a limited
liability  company,  an  association,  a trust or any other entity,  including a
government or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof.

     "Plan"  has the  meaning  assigned  to such  term in the  preamble  of this
Agreement.

     "Register" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.09.

     "Registrar" means a Person engaged to maintain the Register.

     "Warrant  Agent"  means the  party  named as such in the  preamble  of this
Agreement  or any  successor  warrant  agent  under this  Agreement  pursuant to
Article 7.

     "Warrant Certificate" means a certificate evidencing a Warrant.

     "Warrant Shares" means the shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of
the Warrants.

     "Warrants"  has the meaning  assigned to such term in the  preamble of this
Agreement.

     Section 1.02 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.  Unless the context otherwise  requires
or except as otherwise expressly provided,

(i) an  accounting  term not  otherwise  defined  has the meaning
assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;

               (ii) ("herein,"  "hereof" and other words of similar import refer
to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Section, Article or other
subdivision;

               (iii)  all  references  to  Sections,  subsections,  Articles  or
Exhibits  refer to  Sections,  subsections,  Articles  or Exhibits of or to this
Agreement unless otherwise indicated; and

               (iv)   references  to   agreements,   instruments,   statutes  or
regulations,  are to such agreements,  instruments,  statutes or regulations, as
amended from time to time (or to successor statutes and regulations).

                                       3

ARTICLE 2
                          APPOINTMENT OF WARRANT AGENT

     The Company  hereby  appoints the Warrant Agent to act as warrant agent for
the Company in accordance  with the express terms and conditions (and no implied
terms or  duties)  set forth in this  Agreement  and the  Warrant  Agent  hereby
accepts such appointment.

                                   ARTICLE 3
                                  THE WARRANTS

     Section 3.01 FORM AND DATING; LEGENDS. The face of the Warrant Certificates
will be  substantially  in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A and the reverse
of the Warrant Certificates will be substantially in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit B. The Warrant Certificates may have notations,  legends or endorsements
required by law, rules of or agreements  with national  securities  exchanges to
which the Company is subject that do not alter the rights, duties or obligations
of the Warrant  Agent.  Each Warrant  Certificate  will be dated the date of its
countersignature.   However,   to  the  extent  any  provision  of  any  Warrant
Certificate  conflicts  with  the  express  provisions  of this  Agreement,  the
provisions of this Agreement shall govern and be controlling.

     Section 3.02 EXECUTION AND  COUNTERSIGNATURE.  (a) An Officer shall execute
the Warrant Certificates for the Company by facsimile or manual signature in the
name and on behalf of the Company. If an officer whose signature is on a Warrant
Certificate  no longer holds that office at the time the Warrant  Certificate is
countersigned, the Warrant will still be valid.

          (b) A Warrant will not be valid for any purpose or  exercisable  until
the  Warrant  Agent  manually  (or  via  facsimile)   countersigns  the  Warrant
Certificate,  with the signature of the Warrant Agent being conclusive  evidence
that the Warrant Certificate has been countersigned under this Agreement. At any
time and from time to time after the execution  and delivery of this  Agreement,
the  Company  may deliver  Warrant  Certificates  executed by the Company to the
Warrant  Agent for  countersignature.  The Warrant  Agent will  countersign  and
deliver a number of Warrant  Certificates  for  original  issue in an  aggregate
amount not to exceed the amount  stated in the preamble  hereof after receipt by
the Warrant Agent of an Officers' Certificate specifying:

               (i) the amount of Warrant  Certificates to be  countersigned  and
the date on which the Warrant Certificates are to be countersigned, (ii) whether
the  Warrants  are to be issued as one or more Global  Warrants or  Certificated
Warrants, and

               (ii) other  information  the Company may  determine to include or
the Warrant Agent may reasonably request.

     Section 3.03  REGISTRAR.  The Company may appoint one or more Registrars or
may itself act as Registrar.  If the Company appoints a Registrar other than the
Warrant Agent, then the Company and the Registrar will enter into an appropriate
agreement  implementing  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  relating  to  the
obligations to be performed by the Registrar. The Company initially appoints the
Warrant Agent as Registrar.

     Section  3.04  REPLACEMENT  WARRANT  CERTIFICATES.  If a mutilated  Warrant
Certificate is  surrendered to the Warrant Agent or if a Holder  delivers to the
Company a sworn affidavit that its Warrant Certificate has been lost,  destroyed
or  wrongfully  taken,  then the Company  will issue and the Warrant  Agent will
countersign  a  replacement  Warrant  Certificate.   Every  replacement  Warrant
Certificate is an obligation of the Company and entitled to the benefits of this

4

Agreement. If required by the Warrant Agent or the Company, an indemnity must be
furnished  that is  sufficient in the judgment of both the Warrant Agent and the
Company to protect  the  Company  and the  Warrant  Agent from any loss they may
suffer if a Warrant  Certificate is replaced.  The Company may charge the Holder
for the  expenses of the Company  and the Warrant  Agent in  replacing a Warrant
Certificate.

     Section 3.05 OUTSTANDING WARRANTS. (a) Warrants outstanding at any time are
all Warrants represented by Warrant Certificates that have been countersigned by
the Warrant Agent except for:

               (i)  Warrant  Certificates  cancelled  by the  Warrant  Agent  or
delivered for cancellation;

               (ii) Warrants exercised by the Holder thereof; and

               (iii) any Warrant  Certificate that has been replaced pursuant to
Section 3.04.

          (b) A Warrant shall not cease to be outstanding because the Company or
one of its Affiliates  holds the Warrant,  provided that in determining  whether
the Holders of the requisite  number of the  outstanding  Warrants have given or
taken any request, demand, authorization,  direction, notice, consent, waiver or
other action  hereunder,  Warrants owned by the Company or any subsidiary of the
Company will be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding.

     Section 3.06.  TEMPORARY  WARRANT  CERTIFICATES.  Until definitive  Warrant
Certificates  are ready for  delivery,  the  Company may prepare and the Warrant
Agent  will  countersign  temporary  Warrant  Certificates.   Temporary  Warrant
Certificates   will  be  substantially   in  the  form  of  definitive   Warrant
Certificates  but  may  have  insertions,  substitutions,  omissions  and  other
variations  determined to be appropriate by the Officer  executing the temporary
Warrant  Certificates,  as evidenced by the execution of the  temporary  Warrant
Certificates.  If temporary  Warrant  Certificates are issued,  the Company will
cause definitive Warrant Certificates to be prepared without unreasonable delay.
After the preparation of definitive Warrant Certificates,  the temporary Warrant
Certificates will be exchangeable for definitive  Warrant  Certificates  without
charge to the Holder upon surrender of the temporary Warrant Certificates.  Upon
surrender for cancellation of any temporary  Warrant  Certificates,  the Company
will  execute and the  Warrant  Agent will  countersign  and deliver in exchange
therefor a like amount of definitive Warrant Certificates.

     Section  3.07.  CANCELLATION.  The  Company at any time may  deliver to the
Warrant Agent for cancellation any Warrant Certificates previously countersigned
and  delivered  hereunder  that the  Company  may have  acquired  in any  manner
whatsoever,  and may deliver to the Warrant Agent for  cancellation  any Warrant
Certificates  previously  countersigned  hereunder  which  the  Company  has not
issued. Any Registrar will forward to the Warrant Agent any Warrant Certificates
surrendered to it for transfer,  exchange or exercise. The Warrant Agent (and no
one else)  will  cancel  all  Warrant  Certificates  surrendered  for  transfer,
exchange,  exercise or  cancellation  and dispose of them in accordance with its
normal  procedures or the written  instructions of the Company.  The Company may
not issue new Warrants to replace  Warrants  evidenced  by Warrant  Certificates
that have been exercised or delivered to the Warrant Agent for cancellation. The
Registrar shall provide the Company with a list of all Warrant Certificates that
have been cancelled.

     Section 3.08.  CUSIP AND CINS NUMBERS.  The Company in issuing the Warrants
may use "CUSIP" and "CINS" numbers, and the Warrant Agent will use CUSIP numbers
or CINS numbers in notices as a convenience to Holders, the notice to state that
no  representation  is made as to the  correctness  of such  numbers  either  as
printed on the Warrant Certificates or as contained in any notice to any Holder.
The Company will promptly notify the Warrant Agent of any change in the CUSIP or
CINS numbers.

                                       5

Section 3.09. REGISTRATION, TRANSFER AND EXCHANGE. (a) The Warrants will be
issued in registered form only, and the Company shall cause the Warrant Agent to
maintain a register (the "Register") of the Warrants, for registering the record
ownership of the Warrants and transfers and exchanges of the Warrants.

          (b)  Each  Global  Warrant  will  be  registered  in the  name  of the
Depositary  or its  nominee  and,  so long as DTC is serving  as the  Depositary
thereof,  will bear the DTC Legend. A Global Warrant may not be transferred as a
whole except by the Depositary to a nominee of the  Depositary,  by a nominee of
the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary,  or by
the  Depositary  or any such nominee to a successor  Depositary  or a nominee of
such  successor  Depositary.  Except as provided in this Section  3.09(b) and in
Section  3.04,  a Global  Warrant  may not be  exchanged  for  another  Warrant,
provided,  however,  that  beneficial  interests  in a  Global  Warrant  may  be
transferred  by Agent  Members  in  accordance  with the  applicable  rules  and
procedures  of the  Depositary.  Agent  Members  will have no rights  under this
Agreement  with  respect  to any  Global  Warrant  held on their  behalf  by the
Depositary,  and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Warrant Agent
and any agent of the  Company or the  Warrant  Agent as the  absolute  owner and
Holder of such Global Warrant for all purposes  whatsoever.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing,  the  Depositary  or its  nominee  may grant  proxies  and  otherwise
authorize  any Person  (including  any Agent  Member and any Person that holds a
beneficial  interest in a Global  Warrant  through an Agent  Member) to take any
action that a Holder is entitled to take under the Warrants,  and nothing herein
will impair,  as between the Depositary and its Agent Members,  the operation of
customary  practices  governing  the  exercise  of the rights of a holder of any
security.

          (c)  Each  Global  Warrant  will  be  exchanged  by  the  Company  for
Certificated  Warrants if (i) the  Depositary  notifies  the Company  that it is
unwilling  or unable to continue  as  Depositary  for such Global  Warrant and a
successor  Depositary is not  appointed by the Company  within 90 days after the
date of such notice or (ii) the Company in its sole  discretion  determines that
the Global Warrants should be exchanged for Certificated Warrants and delivers a
notice to such effect to the Warrant  Agent.  Upon the  occurrence  of either of
such events, the Warrant Agent will promptly exchange all beneficial interest in
the Global Warrant for one or more Certificated  Warrants registered in the name
of the owner of each beneficial interest,  as identified to the Warrant Agent by
the Depositary, and thereupon the Global Warrant will be deemed canceled.

          (d) Except as  otherwise  provided  in Section  3.09(b),  a Holder may
transfer a Warrant  to another  Person or  exchange  a Warrant  Certificate  for
another  Warrant  Certificate  of the same amount by  presenting  to the Warrant
Agent a written request therefor stating the name of the proposed  transferee or
requesting  such an  exchange,  accompanied  by any  document  required  by this
Agreement.  The Warrant  Agent will  promptly  register any transfer or exchange
that meets the  requirements  of this Section  3.09(d) by noting the same in the
Register.  No transfer or exchange  will be  effective  as to the  Company,  the
Warrant  Agent  and  their  respective  agents  until  it is  registered  in the
Register.  Prior to the registration of any transfer,  the Company,  the Warrant
Agent and their  respective  agents  will  treat  the  Person in whose  name the
Warrant is registered as the owner and Holder thereof for all purposes, and will
not be affected by notice to the  contrary.  From time to time the Company  will
execute and the Warrant Agent will countersign  additional Warrant  Certificates
as necessary to permit the  registration of a transfer or exchange in accordance
with this Section  3.09(d).  All Warrants issued upon transfer or exchange shall
be the duly authorized,  executed and delivered Warrants of the Company entitled
to the  benefits  of this  Agreement.  No  service  charge  will be  imposed  in
connection  with any  transfer or exchange of any  Warrant,  but the Company may
require  payment  of a sum  sufficient  to cover  any  transfer  tax or  similar
governmental  charge payable in connection  therewith (other than a transfer tax
or other similar  governmental  charge payable upon exchange pursuant to Section
3.09(c)).

                                       6

(e) If a Warrant  Certificate  representing a Certificated  Warrant is
transferred  or  exchanged  for  another  Warrant  Certificate   representing  a
Certificated  Warrant, the Warrant Agent will (i) cancel the Warrant Certificate
being   transferred  or  exchanged,   (ii)  deliver  one  or  more  new  Warrant
Certificates  representing the number of Warrants being transferred or exchanged
to the  transferee  (in the case of a  transfer)  or the Holder of the  canceled
Warrant Certificate (in the case of an exchange), registered in the name of such
transferee  or Holder,  as  applicable,  and (iii) if such  transfer or exchange
involves  less than the entire  number of Warrants  represented  by the canceled
Warrant  Certificate,  deliver  to  the  Holder  thereof  one  or  more  Warrant
Certificates   representing  an  aggregate  number  of  Warrants  equal  to  the
untransferred or unexchanged number of the canceled Warrants,  registered in the
name of the Holder thereof.

                                   ARTICLE 4
                     TERMS OF WARRANTS; EXERCISE OF WARRANTS

     Section 4.01 TERMS OF WARRANTS; EXERCISE OF WARRANTS.

          (a) Each Warrant not exercised prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time,
on February  28, 2008 (the  "Expiration  Date") shall become void and all rights
thereunder and all rights in respect thereof under this Agreement shall cease as
of such time.

          (b)  Subject to the terms of this  Agreement,  each  Warrant  shall be
exercisable,  in full and not in part,  at the  election of the Holder  thereof,
during the period  commencing  at the  opening of business on the Issue Date and
until 5:00 p.m.,  New York City time on the  Expiration  Date, and shall entitle
the  Holder  thereof  to  receive  from  the  Company  one (1)  fully  paid  and
nonassessable share of Common Stock upon exercise of such Warrant and payment of
the Exercise  Price then in effect in cash,  by wire transfer or by certified or
official check payable to the order of the Company.

          (c) In  order  to  exercise  all or any of the  Warrants,  the  Holder
thereof must deliver to the Warrant Agent at the Corporate  Trust Office (i) the
Warrant  Certificates  evidencing  such  Warrants,  (ii) the form of election to
purchase on the reverse thereof duly filled in and signed, which signature shall
be  medallion  guaranteed  by an  institution  which is a member of a Securities
Transfer  Association  recognized signature guarantee program, and (iii) payment
to the Warrant Agent for the account of the Company of the then-current Exercise
Price,  in the  manner set forth in  Section  4.01(b)  for the number of Warrant
Shares in respect of which the Warrants are being exercised.

          (d) No fractional Warrant Shares are to be issued upon any exercise of
a Warrant,  but rather cash in lieu of  fractional  shares shall be delivered to
the Holder as provided in Section 6.02.

          (e)  If  fewer  than  all  the  Warrants   represented  by  a  Warrant
Certificate are exercised,  such Warrant  Certificate shall be surrendered and a
new  Warrant  Certificate  for the number of Warrants  which were not  exercised
shall be executed by the Company and  delivered  to the Warrant  Agent,  and the
Warrant Agent shall countersign the new Warrant Certificate,  registered in such
name or names as may be directed in writing by the Holder, and shall deliver the
new Warrant Certificate to the Person or Persons entitled to receive the same.

          (f) All Warrant  Certificates  surrendered  upon  exercise of Warrants
shall be cancelled by the Warrant  Agent.  Such cancelled  Warrant  Certificates
shall then be disposed of by the Warrant Agent in a manner  satisfactory  to the
Company. The Warrant Agent shall account promptly to the Company with respect to
Warrants  exercised and  concurrently  pay to the Company all monies received by

7

the Warrant Agent for the purchase of the Warrant Shares through the exercise of
such Warrants.

          (g) The  Warrant  Agent shall keep  copies of this  Agreement  and any
notices  given or received  hereunder  available  for  inspection by the Holders
during normal  business hours at the Corporate  Trust Office.  The Company shall
supply the Warrant  Agent from time to time with such  numbers of copies of this
Agreement as the Warrant Agent may reasonably request.

                                   ARTICLE 5
                            COVENANTS OF THE COMPANY

     Section 5.01. MAINTENANCE OF OFFICE OR AGENCY. The Company will maintain an
office or agency where Warrants may be surrendered for  registration of transfer
or exchange or for  presentation  for  exercise.  The Company  hereby  initially
designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Warrant Agent as such office of the
Company. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Warrant Agent of any
change in the  location  of such  office or agency.  If at any time the  Company
fails to  maintain  any such  required  office or agency or fails to furnish the
Warrant Agent with the address thereof, such surrenders and presentations may be
made or served to the Warrant Agent.

     The Company may also from time to time  designate one or more other offices
or agencies where Warrant  Certificates  may be surrendered or presented for any
of such  purposes  and may from  time to time  rescind  such  designations.  The
Company  will  give  prompt  written  notice  to the  Warrant  Agent of any such
designation  or  rescission  and of any change in the location of any such other
office or agency.

     Section 5.02. PAYMENT OF TAXES. The Company will pay all documentary, stamp
or similar issue or transfer taxes and other  governmental  charges,  if any, in
respect of the  issuance  or delivery  of Warrant  Shares  upon the  exercise of
Warrants;  provided,  that  neither the  Company nor the Warrant  Agent shall be
required  to pay any taxes or  charges  which may be  payable  in respect of any
transfer  involved in the issue of any Warrants or any Warrant  Shares in a name
other than that of the Holder of a Warrant  surrendered  upon exercise,  and the
Company shall not be required to issue or deliver such Warrant  Shares unless or
until the Person or Persons  requesting the issuance  thereof shall have paid to
the Company the amount of such taxes or charges or shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Company that such taxes or charges have been paid.

     Section 5.03. RESERVATION OF WARRANT SHARES.

          (a) The  Company  will at all times  reserve  and keep  available  for
issuance and delivery,  free and clear of all preemptive rights,  such number of
shares of its  authorized but unissued  Common Stock or other  securities of the
Company  from time to time  issuable  upon  exercise of the  Warrants as will be
sufficient to permit the exercise in full of all outstanding Warrants.

          (b) Before taking any action which would cause an adjustment  pursuant
to Section 6.01 hereof to reduce the Exercise Price below the then par value (if
any) of its Common Stock,  the Company will take any corporate action which may,
in the  opinion of its  counsel,  be  necessary  in order that the  Company  may
validly and legally  issue fully paid and  nonassessable  Warrant  Shares at the
Exercise Price as so adjusted.

          (c) The Company  covenants that all Warrant Shares which may be issued
upon exercise of Warrants will,  upon issue, be fully paid,  nonassessable,  and
free of preemptive rights with respect to the issuance thereof.

                                       8

Section 5.04. STOCK EXCHANGE  LISTINGS.  The Company will from time to time
use commercially reasonable efforts to take all action which may be necessary so
that the Warrant  Shares,  immediately  upon their issuance upon the exercise of
Warrants, are listed on the principal securities exchanges,  automated quotation
systems or other markets  within the United States of America,  if any, on which
other shares of Common Stock are then listed.

                                   ARTICLE 6
       ADJUSTMENT OF EXERCISE PRICE AND NUMBER OF WARRANT SHARES ISSUABLE

     Section  6.01.  ADJUSTMENT OF EXERCISE  PRICE AND NUMBER OF WARRANT  SHARES
ISSUABLE.  The Exercise Price and the number of Warrant Shares issuable upon the
exercise of each  Warrant are subject to  adjustment  from time to time upon the
occurrence of the events enumerated in this Article 6.

          (a) Stock Dividends, Subdivisions and Combinations.

     Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.01(b),  if the Company (i) pays a
dividend  or makes a  distribution  on its Common  Stock in shares of its Common
Stock,  (ii)  subdivides its  outstanding  shares of Common Stock into a greater
number of shares, or (iii) combines its outstanding  shares of Common Stock into
a smaller  number of shares,  then (A) the number of shares of Common  Stock for
which a Warrant is  exercisable  immediately  after the  occurrence  of any such
event  shall be  adjusted  to equal the number of shares of Common  Stock that a
record  holder of the same number of shares of Common  Stock for which a Warrant
is exercisable immediately prior to the occurrence of such event would own or be
entitled to receive after the happening of such event and (B) the Exercise Price
shall be  adjusted  to equal  (I) the  Exercise  Price in  effect  prior to such
adjustment  multiplied  by the  number of  shares  of  Common  Stock for which a
Warrant is exercisable  prior to the  adjustment,  divided by (II) the number of
shares for which a Warrant is exercisable immediately after such adjustment.

     The  adjustment   under  this  Section   6.01(a)  shall  become   effective
immediately  after the record date in the case of a dividend or distribution and
immediately   after  the  effective  date  in  the  case  of  a  subdivision  or
combination.

          (b) When De Minimis Adjustment May Be Deferred.

     No  adjustment  in the  Exercise  Price need be made unless the  adjustment
would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% in the Exercise Price.  Any
adjustments that are not made shall be carried forward and taken into account in
any subsequent  adjustment.  All  calculations  under this Section 6.01 shall be
made to the nearest cent or to the nearest 1/1,000th of a share, as the case may
be.

          (c) Notice of Adjustment.

     Whenever the  Exercise  Price is adjusted,  the Company  shall  provide the
notices required by Section 6.03.

          (d) Reorganization, Reclassification, Merger, Consolidation or Sale.

     After the date  hereof,  if the Company  reorganizes  or  reclassifies  its
Capital Stock,  consolidates  or merges with or into, or transfers or leases all
or  substantially  all its assets  to, any  Person,  upon  consummation  of such
transaction each Warrant shall  automatically  become exercisable solely for the
kind and amount of securities,  cash or other assets which the Holder would have
owned immediately  after the  reorganization,  reclassification,  consolidation,
merger,  transfer or lease if the Holder had exercised  the Warrant  immediately
before the effective date of the transaction. Concurrently with the consummation

9

of  such  transaction,   the  corporation   formed  by  or  surviving  any  such
consolidation  or merger if other than the Company,  or the Person to which such
sale or conveyance shall have been made, shall enter into a supplemental Warrant
Agreement so providing and further  providing for adjustments  which shall be as
nearly  equivalent as may be practical to the  adjustments  provided for in this
Section 6.01(d). The successor company shall mail to Holders a notice describing
the supplemental  Warrant  Agreement.  This Section 6.01(d) shall not apply to a
transaction to which Section 6.01(a) applies.

          (e) Form of Warrant Certificates.

     Irrespective of any adjustments in the Exercise Price or the number or kind
of shares  purchasable upon the exercise of the Warrants,  Warrant  Certificates
theretofore  or  thereafter  issued may  continue  to express the same price and
number and kind of shares as are stated in the  Warrant  Certificates  initially
issuable pursuant to this Agreement.

     Section 6.02.  FRACTIONAL  INTERESTS.  The Company shall not be required to
issue fractional Warrant Shares or scrip  representing  fractional shares on the
exercise of Warrants. If more than one Warrant shall be exercised in full at the
same time by the same Holder,  the number of full Warrant  Shares which shall be
issuable  upon the  exercise  thereof  shall  be  computed  on the  basis of the
aggregate  number of Warrant  Shares  purchasable on exercise of the Warrants so
presented.  If any fraction of a Warrant Share would,  except for the provisions
of this Section  6.02, be issuable on the exercise of any Warrants (or specified
portion  thereof),  the  Company  shall pay an amount in cash equal to the Daily
Price per Warrant Share, as determined on the Business Day immediately preceding
the date the Warrant is presented  for exercise,  multiplied  by such  fraction,
computed to the nearest whole U.S. cent.

     Section 6.03. NOTICES TO HOLDERS.  Upon any adjustment  pursuant to Section
6.01,  the  Company  shall  promptly  thereafter  (i) cause to be filed with the
Warrant Agent an Officer's  Certificate  setting forth the Exercise  Price after
such adjustment and setting forth in reasonable detail the method of calculation
and the facts upon  which  such  calculations  are based and  setting  forth the
number  of  Warrant  Shares  (or  portion  thereof)  or the kind and  amount  of
securities,  cash or other  assets  to which a Holder  is  entitled  after  such
adjustment  upon  exercise  of a Warrant and  payment of the  adjusted  Exercise
Price, which certificate shall be conclusive  evidence of the correctness of the
matters set forth therein, and (ii) cause to be given to each of the Holders, at
the address of such Holder  appearing in the  Register,  written  notice of such
adjustments by first-class mail, postage prepaid. Where appropriate, such notice
may be given in advance  and  included  as a part of the notice  required  to be
mailed under the other  provisions of this Article 6. The Warrant Agent will not
be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment required by this Article 6 without
receiving such Officer's Certificate.

     Section  6.04.  NO  RIGHTS  AS  STOCKHOLDERS.  Nothing  contained  in  this
Agreement or the Warrant  Certificates shall be construed as conferring upon the
holders of any Warrant  the right to vote or to consent or to receive  notice as
stockholders  in respect of the  meetings  of  stockholders  or the  election of
directors  of the  Company  or any  other  matter,  or  any  rights  whatsoever,
including the right to receive dividends, as stockholders of the Company.

                                   ARTICLE 7
                                  WARRANT AGENT

     Section  7.01.  WARRANT  AGENT.  The Warrant Agent  undertakes  the express
duties and obligations  (and no implied duties or  obligations)  imposed by this
Agreement upon the following terms and  conditions,  by all of which the Company
and the Holders, by their acceptance of the Warrants, shall be bound:

                                       10

(a) The Warrant Agent shall be liable hereunder only for its own gross
negligence,  willful  misconduct  or bad faith (as each is determined by a final
non-appealable  order of a court  of  competent  jurisdiction).  Notwithstanding
anything in this Agreement to the contrary,  in no event shall the Warrant Agent
be liable for special, punitive,  incidental,  indirect or consequential loss or
damage of any kind whatsoever (including but not limited to lost profits),  even
if the Warrant  Agent has been advised of the  likelihood of such loss or damage
and  regardless  of the form of the action.  Any  liability of the Warrant Agent
under this  Agreement  shall be limited to the  aggregate  amount of annual fees
paid by the Company to the Warrant Agent.

          (b) The statements  contained  herein and in the Warrant  Certificates
shall be taken as  statements  of the Company and the Warrant  Agent  assumes no
responsibility  for the  correctness  of any of the same except such as describe
the  Warrant  Agent or  action  taken or to be taken by it.  The  Warrant  Agent
assumes no  responsibility  with  respect to the  distribution  of the  Warrants
except as herein otherwise provided.

          (c)  The  Warrant  Agent  will  not be  under  any  responsibility  or
liability in respect of the  validity of this  Agreement  or the  execution  and
delivery  hereof  (except the due execution  and delivery  hereof by the Warrant
Agent) or in respect of the  validity or  execution  of any Warrant  Certificate
(except the due  countersignature  thereof by the Warrant Agent); nor will it be
responsible or liable for any breach by the Company of any covenant or condition
contained  in this  Agreement  or in any  Warrant  Certificate;  nor  will it be
responsible  or liable  for any  adjustment  required  under the  provisions  of
Article  6 hereof  or  responsible  for the  manner,  method  or  amount  of any
adjustment or the  ascertaining of the existence of facts that would require any
adjustment (except with respect to the exercise of Warrants evidenced by Warrant
Certificates  after actual  written  notice of any  adjustment);  nor will it be
responsible  or liable for any  amendment or supplement  made to this  Agreement
that is in  violation  of  Section  8.02(b) or  8.02(c);  nor will it by any act
hereunder  be  deemed  to  make  any   representation  or  warranty  as  to  the
authorization  or reservation  of any shares of stock or other  securities to be
issued  pursuant to this  Agreement or any Warrant  Certificate or as to whether
any Warrant Shares or other securities will, when issued, be validly  authorized
and issued, fully paid and nonassessable.

          (d) The Company  will  perform,  execute,  acknowledge  and deliver or
cause to be performed, executed, acknowledged and delivered all such further and
other acts,  instruments  and  assurances  as may  reasonably be required by the
Warrant  Agent for the carrying out or  performing  by the Warrant  Agent of the
provisions of this Agreement.

          (e) The Warrant Agent will not be under any duty or  responsibility to
insure  compliance  with any  applicable  federal  or state  securities  laws in
connection with the issuance, transfer or exchange of Warrant Certificates.

          (f) In the  absence of gross  negligence,  willful  misconduct  or bad
faith  on the  part of the  Warrant  Agent  (as  each is  determined  by a final
non-appealable  order of a court of competent  jurisdiction),  the Warrant Agent
shall not be liable  and will be fully  protected  in  acting  upon any  written
notice,  resolution,   certificate,   statement,  instrument,  opinion,  report,
instruction,  direction,  request or other communication which the Warrant Agent
believes  to be  genuine  and to have been  signed or  delivered  by the  proper
Person,  and shall have no duty to inquire  into or  investigate  the  validity,
accuracy or content  thereof.  The Warrant Agent shall not take any instructions
or directions except those given in accordance with this Agreement.  Whenever in
the  performance  of its duties under this  Agreement the Warrant Agent deems it
necessary or desirable  that any fact or matter be proved or  established by the
Company prior to taking or suffering any action  hereunder,  such fact or matter
may  be  deemed  to be  conclusively  proved  and  established  by an  Officer's
Certificate  delivered to the Warrant Agent; and such Officer's Certificate will

11

be full  authorization  to the Warrant Agent for any action  taken,  suffered or
omitted by it under the  provisions  of this  Agreement  in  reliance  upon such
Officer's Certificate.

          (g) In the event the Warrant Agent, in its sole  discretion,  believes
any ambiguity or  uncertainty  exists  hereunder or in any notice,  instruction,
direction,  request or other  communication,  paper or document  received by the
Warrant Agent  hereunder,  or is uncertain of any action to take hereunder,  the
Warrant Agent shall refrain from taking any action, and shall be fully protected
and shall not be liable in any way to the Company or any Holder or other  Person
for  refraining  from taking such action,  unless the Warrant Agent  receives an
Officer's  Certificate  which  eliminates  such  ambiguity or uncertainty to the
satisfaction of Warrant Agent.

          (h) The Warrant  Agent may execute and  exercise  any of the rights or
powers hereby vested in it or perform any duty hereunder  either itself or by or
through its attorneys,  accountants,  agents or other  experts,  and the Warrant
Agent will not be answerable or  accountable  for any act,  default,  neglect or
unintentional  misconduct of any such attorneys or agents or for any loss to the
Company or the holders of Warrants resulting from any such act, default, neglect
or unintentional misconduct, absent gross negligence,  willful misconduct or bad
faith  (as  each is  determined  by a final  non-appealable  order of a court of
competent jurisdiction) in the selection and continued employment thereof.

          (i) All  rights of action  under  this  Agreement  or under any of the
Warrant Certificates may be enforced by the Warrant Agent without the possession
of any  of the  Warrants  or the  production  thereof  at  any  trial  or  other
proceeding relative thereto, and any such action, suit or proceeding  instituted
by the  Warrant  Agent  shall be brought  in its name as  Warrant  Agent and any
recovery of judgment shall be for the ratable  benefit of the Holders,  as their
respective rights or interests may appear.

          (j) The Warrant Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be legal
counsel for the Company or an employee of the Warrant Agent),  and the advice of
such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel  will be full and complete  authorization
and protection to the Warrant Agent in respect of any action taken,  suffered or
omitted to be taken by it  hereunder in good faith and in  accordance  with such
advice or Opinion of Counsel.

          (k) The Warrant Agent shall not incur any liability for not performing
any act, duty,  obligation or  responsibility by reason of any occurrence beyond
the  control of the  Warrant  Agent  (including  without  limitation  any act or
provision of any present or future law or regulation or governmental  authority,
any act of God, war, civil disorder or failure of any means of communication).

          (l) The Warrant  Agent shall not be  accountable  or under any duty or
responsibility   for  the  use  by  the  Company  of  any  Warrant   Certificate
countersigned  by the Warrant Agent and delivered by it to the Company  pursuant
to this  Agreement or for the  application by the Company of the proceeds of the
issuance  or  exercise  of  Warrants.  The  Warrant  Agent  shall  have no duty,
liability  or  responsibility  in  case of any  default  by the  Company  in the
performance  of its covenants or agreements  contained  herein or in any Warrant
Certificate  or in case of the receipt of any written  demand from a Holder with
respect to such  default,  including,  without  limiting the  generality  of the
foregoing,  any duty or  responsibility  to initiate or attempt to initiate  any
proceedings  at law or otherwise  or, except as provided in Section 8.01 hereof,
to make any demand upon the Company.

          (m) The Warrant  Agent  shall act  hereunder  as agent  solely for the
Company and not for the Holders,  and its duties shall be  determined  solely by
the provisions hereof.

          (n) The rights and  obligations  contained  in this Section 7.01 shall
survive the  termination of this Agreement and the resignation or removal of the
Warrant Agent.

                                       12

Section 7.02.  INDIVIDUAL  RIGHTS OF WARRANT AGENT.  The Warrant Agent, and
any  stockholder,  director,  officer or employee of the Warrant Agent, may buy,
sell or deal in any of the Warrants or other securities of the Company or become
pecuniarily   interested  in  any  transaction  in  which  the  Company  may  be
interested,  or  contract  with or lend money to the  Company  or any  Affiliate
thereof or otherwise act as fully and freely as though it were not Warrant Agent
under this  Agreement.  Nothing  herein shall  preclude  the Warrant  Agent from
acting in any other capacity for the Company or for any other Person.

     Section  7.03.  COMPENSATION  AND  INDEMNIFICATION  OF WARRANT  AGENT.  The
Company will promptly pay to the Warrant Agent  reasonable  fees and expenses to
be agreed upon by the Company and the Warrant Agent and its reasonable  expenses
and its reasonable counsel fees and expenses and other disbursements incurred in
the  preparation,  delivery,  administration,  execution  and  amendment of this
Agreement and the exercise and performance of its duties hereunder.  The Company
will  indemnify the Warrant Agent for, and hold it harmless  against,  any loss,
liability, suit, action, proceeding,  damage, judgment, claim, settlement,  cost
or expense,  incurred without gross negligence,  willful misconduct or bad faith
(as each is determined by a final  non-appealable  order of a court of competent
jurisdiction) on the part of the Warrant Agent,  for any action taken,  suffered
or  omitted  by  the  Warrant  Agent  in  connection  with  the  acceptance  and
administration of this Agreement,  including the costs and expenses of defending
against any claim of liability  arising  therefrom,  directly or indirectly.  No
provision of this Agreement will require the Warrant Agent to expend or risk its
own funds or otherwise  incur any financial  liability in the performance of its
duties hereunder, or in the exercise of its rights or powers, unless it receives
indemnity  satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense. The rights
and obligations  contained in this Section 7.03 shall survive the termination of
this Agreement and the resignation or removal of the Warrant Agent.

     Section  7.04.  REPLACEMENT  OF WARRANT  AGENT.  (a) The Warrant  Agent may
resign at any time by 30 days'  prior  written  notice to the  Company or may be
removed  at any  time by the  Company  upon 30 days'  prior  written  notice.  A
resignation  or removal of the  Warrant  Agent and  appointment  of a  successor
Warrant  Agent will become  effective  only upon the successor  Warrant  Agent's
acceptance of appointment as provided in Section 7.04(b).

          (b)  Upon  delivery  by  the  successor  Warrant  Agent  of a  written
acceptance of its appointment to the retiring  Warrant Agent and to the Company,
(i) the retiring  Warrant Agent will transfer all property held by it as Warrant
Agent to the successor  Warrant  Agent,  (ii) the  resignation or removal of the
retiring Warrant Agent will become  effective,  and (iii) the successor  Warrant
Agent will have all the  rights,  powers and duties of the  Warrant  Agent under
this Agreement.  Upon request of any successor  Warrant Agent,  the Company will
execute  any and all  instruments  for fully  vesting in and  confirming  to the
successor  Warrant  Agent all such rights,  powers and duties.  The Company will
give notice of any  resignation  and any  removal of the Warrant  Agent and each
appointment  of a successor  Warrant  Agent to all  Holders,  and include in the
notice the name of the successor  Warrant Agent and the address of its Corporate
Trust Office.

     Section 7.05.  SUCCESSOR WARRANT AGENT BY MERGER.  (a) If the Warrant Agent
consolidates  with,  merges or converts into, or transfers all or  substantially
all of its corporate trust business to, another Person, the resulting, surviving
or transferee Person without any further act will be the successor Warrant Agent
with the same  effect as if the  successor  Warrant  Agent had been named as the
Warrant Agent in this Agreement.

          (b) If, at the time such  successor to the Warrant Agent shall succeed
to the agency created by this Agreement,  any of the Warrant  Certificates  have
been countersigned but not delivered,  the successor Warrant Agent may adopt the
countersignature  of the  original  Warrant  Agent;  and  if any of the  Warrant
Certificates shall not have been countersigned,  the successor Warrant Agent may

13

countersign  such  Warrant  Certificates,  and in all such  cases  such  Warrant
Certificates  shall  have the full  force and  effect  provided  in the  Warrant
Certificates and in this Agreement.

     Section 7.06.  HOLDER LISTS. The Warrant Agent shall preserve in as current
a form as is reasonably  practicable the most recent list available to it of the
names and addresses of all Holders.  If the Warrant Agent is not the  Registrar,
the Company  shall  promptly  furnish to the Warrant  Agent at such times as the
Warrant Agent may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as
the  Warrant  Agent may  reasonably  require of the names and  addresses  of the
Holders.

                                   ARTICLE 8
                                 MISCELLANEOUS.

     Section 8.01 NOTICES.  (a) Any notice or  communication to the Company will
be deemed given if in writing (i) when  delivered  in person,  or (ii) five days
after mailing when mailed by registered or certified mail, or (iii) when sent by
facsimile transmission,  with transmission confirmed.  Any notice to the Warrant
Agent  will  be  effective  only  upon  receipt.  In each  case  the  notice  or
communication should be addressed as follows:

     if to the Company:

     WHX Corporation
     110 East 59th Street
     New York, New York 10022
     Attention: President
     Facsimile: 212-355-5336

     if to the Warrant Agent:

     Computershare Investor Services
     250 Royall Street
     Canton, MA 02021
     Attention: William Gustafson
     Facsimile: (781) 575-2549

     The  Company  or the  Warrant  Agent by notice  to the other may  designate
additional or different  addresses for subsequent notices or communications.  If
the Warrant  Agent shall receive any written  notice or demand  addressed to the
Company by any Holder pursuant to the provisions of the Warrant Certificate, the
Warrant Agent shall promptly forward such notice or demand to the Company.

          (b) Except as otherwise  expressly  provided with respect to published
notices,  any  notice or  communication  to a Holder  will be deemed  given when
mailed to the Holder at its address as it appears on the Register by first class
mail or, as to any Global Warrant  registered in the name of DTC or its nominee,
as agreed by the  Company,  the Warrant  Agent and DTC.  Copies of any notice or
communication  to a  Holder,  if given by the  Company,  will be  mailed  to the
Warrant Agent at the same time.  Defect in mailing a notice or  communication to
any  particular  Holder will not affect its  sufficiency  with  respect to other
Holders.

     Section 8.02.  SUPPLEMENTS AND AMENDMENTS.  (a) The Company and the Warrant
Agent may amend or supplement this Agreement or the Warrant Certificates without
notice to or the consent of any Holder

                                       14

(i)  to  cure  any  ambiguity,  defect  or  inconsistency  in the
Agreement or the Warrant Certificates;

               (ii) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of an appointment
hereunder by a successor Warrant Agent; or

               (iii) to make any other change that does not adversely affect the
rights of any Holder.

          (b)  Except as  otherwise  provided  in  subsections  (a) above or (c)
below,  the  Company  and the  Warrant  Agent may amend this  Agreement  and the
Warrant  Certificates  with the written  consent of the Holders of a majority of
the  outstanding  Warrants,  and the  Holders of a majority  of the  outstanding
Warrants by written  notice to the Warrant Agent may waive future  compliance by
the Company with any provision of this Agreement or the Warrant Certificates.

          (c)  Notwithstanding  the provisions of subsection (b) above,  without
the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment, supplement or waiver may not

               (i) increase the Exercise Price except for  adjustments  provided
for in Article 6;

               (ii) decrease the number of Warrant Shares or other securities or
property  issuable  upon  exercise of the  Warrants  except,  in each case,  for
adjustments provided for in Article 6; or

               (iii) designate an earlier Expiration Date.

          (d) It is not necessary for Holders to approve the particular  form of
any proposed amendment, supplement or waiver, but is sufficient if their consent
approves the substance thereof.

          (e) An  amendment,  supplement  or waiver under this Section 8.02 will
become  effective on receipt by the Warrant  Agent of written  consents from the
Holders  of the  requisite  percentage  of the  outstanding  Warrants.  After an
amendment,  supplement or waiver under this Section 8.02 becomes effective,  the
Company will send to the Holders  affected  thereby a notice briefly  describing
the  amendment,  supplement  or waiver.  Any failure of the Company to send such
notice, or any defect therein,  will not,  however,  in any way impair or affect
the validity of any such amendment, supplement or waiver.

          (f) After an amendment,  supplement or waiver  becomes  effective,  it
will bind every Holder  unless such  amendment,  supplement  or waiver is of the
type described in Section 8.02(c). If the amendment,  supplement or waiver is of
the type described in Section 8.02(c), then the amendment,  supplement or waiver
will bind each Holder that has consented to it and every subsequent  Holder of a
Warrant with respect to which consent was granted.

          (g) If an  amendment,  supplement  or  waiver  changes  the terms of a
Warrant,  the  Warrant  Agent may  require  the  Holder to deliver  the  Warrant
Certificate  representing  such Warrant to the Warrant Agent so that the Warrant
Agent  may  place  an  appropriate  notation  of the new  terms  on the  Warrant
Certificate  and  return it to the  Holder,  or  exchange  it for a new  Warrant
Certificate  that  reflects the new terms.  The Warrant  Agent may also place an
appropriate  notation  on  any  Warrant  Certificate  thereafter  countersigned.
However,  the  effectiveness  of the  amendment,  supplement  or  waiver  is not
affected by any failure to annotate or exchange Warrant Certificates as provided
in this Section 8.02(g).

                                       15

(h) The  Warrant  Agent  is  entitled  to  receive,  and will be fully
protected in relying upon,  an Opinion of Counsel  stating that the execution of
any amendment,  supplement or waiver authorized pursuant to this Section 8.02 is
authorized  or permitted by this  Agreement.  If the Warrant  Agent has received
such an  Opinion  of  Counsel,  the  Warrant  Agent  shall  sign the  amendment,
supplement or waiver so long as the same does not adversely affect the rights of
the Warrant Agent.

     Section 8.03.  GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement,  the Warrant Certificates and
the Warrants  shall be governed by, and  construed in accordance  with,  and all
disputes arising out of or relating to this Agreement,  the Warrant Certificates
and the Warrants will be determined in accordance with, the internal laws of the
State of New York,  without  giving effect to the  conflicts of laws  principles
thereof.

     Section 8.04. NO ADVERSE INTERPRETATION OF OTHER AGREEMENTS. This Agreement
may not be used to interpret  any other  agreement  of the Company,  and no such
other agreement may be used to interpret this Agreement.

     Section 8.05.  SUCCESSORS.  This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and
bind the Company,  the Warrant  Agent and their  respective  successors  and the
Holders and their respective transferees.

     Section 8.06. COUNTERPARTS; MULTIPLE ORIGINALS. The parties may sign one or
more  counterparts  of this Agreement all of which  together shall  constitute a
single  agreement.  The parties may sign any number of copies of this Agreement.
Each signed copy shall be an original,  but all of them together shall represent
the same agreement.

     Section 8.07.  SEPARABILITY.  In case any provision in this Agreement or in
the Warrant  Certificates is invalid,  illegal or  unenforceable,  the validity,
legality and  enforceability of the remaining  provisions will not in any way be
affected or impaired thereby.

     Section  8.08.  TABLE OF CONTENTS AND  HEADINGS.  The Table of Contents and
headings of the Articles,  Sections and  subsections of this Agreement have been
inserted for  convenience of reference  only, are not to be considered a part of
this  Agreement and in no way modify or restrict any of the terms and provisions
of this Agreement.

     Section 8.09.  BENEFITS OF THIS AGREEMENT.  Nothing in this Agreement shall
be construed to give to any Person other than the Company, the Warrant Agent and
the Holders any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Agreement.

     Section 8.10.  WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT  PERMITTED UNDER
APPLICABLE  LAW, THE COMPANY AND THE WARRANT  AGENT  HEREBY,  AND THE HOLDERS BY
THEIR  ACCEPTANCE OF THE WARRANTS  THEREBY,  IRREVOCABLY  WAIVE THEIR RESPECTIVE
RIGHTS TO A JURY TRIAL WITH  RESPECT TO ANY  ACTION,  CLAIM OR OTHER  PROCEEDING
ARISING  OUT OF ANY  DISPUTE IN  CONNECTION  WITH THIS  AGREEMENT,  THE  WARRANT
CERTIFICATES OR THE WARRANTS, ANY RIGHTS OR OBLIGATIONS HEREUNDER OR THEREUNDER,
OR THE PERFORMANCE OF SUCH RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS.

16

IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the parties  hereto have caused this  Agreement to be
duly executed, as of the day and year first above written.

                                WHX CORPORATION

                                By:    /s/ Stewart E. Tabin
                                    --------------------------------
                                Name:  Stewart E. Tabin
                                Title: President

EQUISERVE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
                                as Warrant Agent

                                By:    /s/ Dennis V. Moccia
                                   ----------------------------------
                                Name:  Dennis V. Moccia
                                Title: Managing Director

17

EXHIBIT A

                      [Form of Face of Warrant Certificate]

                                 WHX CORPORATION

                               WARRANT CERTIFICATE
             EVIDENCING WARRANTS TO PURCHASE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK
                             (CUSIP NO. 929248 12 8)

No.                                                              ______ Warrants

     This Warrant  Certificate  certifies that  [__________],  or its registered
assigns,  is the  registered  holder of warrants  (the  "Warrants")  to purchase
Common  Stock,  par  value  $0.01  per  share  (the  "Common  Stock"),   of  WHX
Corporation,  a Delaware  corporation.  The Warrants represented by this Warrant
Certificate  entitle the  registered  holder upon exercise at any time from 9:00
a.m. on the Issue Date until 5:00 p.m.  New York City Time on February  28, 2008
(the "Expiration Date"), to receive from the Company an aggregate of such number
of fully  paid and  nonassessable  shares of Common  Stock set forth  above (the
"Warrant Shares") at an initial exercise price (the "Exercise Price") of $ 11.20
per share payable upon  surrender of this Warrant  Certificate  at the office or
agency of the Warrant  Agent,  subject to the conditions set forth herein and in
the Warrant Agreement  referred to on the reverse hereof. The Exercise Price and
number of Warrant  Shares  issuable upon exercise of the Warrants are subject to
adjustment  upon the  occurrence  of  certain  events  set forth in the  Warrant
Agreement.

     Reference  is  hereby  made  to the  further  provisions  of  this  Warrant
Certificate  set forth on the reverse hereof and such further  provisions  shall
for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the Company has caused this Warrant  Certificate to be
signed below manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officer.

Dated:      , 200_
                                        WHX CORPORATION

                                        By:  ________________________________
                                        Name:
                                        Title:
Countersigned:

EQUISERVE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
as Warrant Agent

By:  _________________________________
Name:
Title:

A-1

EXHIBIT B

                    [Form of Reverse of Warrant Certificate]

                                 WHX CORPORATION

                        [REVERSE OF WARRANT CERTIFICATE]

     1.   Warrant Agreement.

     The  Warrants  evidenced  by this  Warrant  Certificate  are part of a duly
authorized  issue of  Warrants  issued  or to be  issued  pursuant  to a Warrant
Agreement  dated as of July 29,  2005 (the  "Warrant  Agreement"),  between  the
Company and  EquiServe  Trust  Company,  N.A.,  as warrant  agent (the  "Warrant
Agent"), which Warrant Agreement is hereby incorporated by reference in and made
a part of this  instrument  and is hereby  referred to for a description  of the
rights, limitation of rights,  obligations,  duties and immunities thereunder of
the Warrant Agent,  the Company and the holders (the words "holders" or "holder"
meaning the  registered  holders or registered  holder) of the Warrants.  To the
extent  permitted by law, in the event of an  inconsistency  or conflict between
the terms of this Warrant  Certificate and the Warrant  Agreement,  the terms of
the Warrant  Agreement  will  prevail.  Capitalized  terms used in this  Warrant
Certificate  that are defined in the Warrant  Agreement  shall have the meanings
provided in the Warrant  Agreement  for  purposes of this  Warrant  Certificate,
unless otherwise defined in this Warrant Certificate.

     2.   Exercise.

     Warrants  may be  exercised  at any time on or after 9:00 a.m. on the Issue
Date and on or before 5:00 p.m. New York City time on the  Expiration  Date.  In
order  to  exercise  all or any of the  Warrants  represented  by  this  Warrant
Certificate,  the holder must  deliver to the Warrant  Agent,  at its  Corporate
Trust Office set forth in the Warrant  Agreement,  this Warrant  Certificate and
the form of election to purchase below duly completed,  which signature shall be
medallion  guaranteed  by an  institution  which  is a  member  of a  Securities
Transfer Association recognized signature guarantee program, and upon payment to
the Warrant  Agent for the account of the Company of the  Exercise  Price in the
manner set forth in the Warrant  Agreement  for the number of Warrant  Shares in
respect of which such Warrants are then exercised.

     No Warrant  may be  exercised  after  5:00 p.m.,  New York City time on the
Expiration Date, and to the extent not exercised by such time the Warrants shall
become void.

     3.   Adjustments.

     The Warrant Agreement provides that, upon the occurrence of certain events,
the  Exercise  Price  set  forth on the face  hereof  may,  subject  to  certain
conditions,  be adjusted. The Warrant Agreement also provides that the number of
shares of Common  Stock  issuable  upon the  exercise of each  Warrant  shall be
adjusted in certain events.

     4.   No Fractional Shares.

     No fractions of a share of Common Stock will be issued upon the exercise of
any  Warrant,  but the Company  will pay the cash value  thereof  determined  as
provided in the Warrant Agreement.

     5.   Registered Form; Transfer and Exchange.

     The Warrants are in registered form. Warrant Certificates, when surrendered
at the office of the Warrant Agent by the registered holder thereof in person or
by  legal  representative  or  attorney  duly  authorized  in  writing,  may  be
exchanged,  in the manner and subject to the limitations provided in the Warrant
Agreement, but without payment of any service charge (except as specified in the
Warrant Agreement),  for another Warrant Certificate or Warrant  Certificates of
like tenor evidencing in the aggregate a like number of Warrants.

B-1

Upon  due  presentation  for  registration  of  transfer  of  this  Warrant
Certificate  at the office of the  Warrant  Agent a new Warrant  Certificate  or
Warrant Certificates of like tenor and evidencing in the aggregate a like number
of Warrants  shall be issued to the  transferee(s)  in exchange for this Warrant
Certificate,  subject to the  limitations  provided  in the  Warrant  Agreement,
without  charge  except  for any tax or other  governmental  charge  imposed  in
connection therewith.

     The  Company  and the  Warrant  Agent  may deem and  treat  the  registered
holder(s)  hereof  as  the  absolute   owner(s)  of  this  Warrant   Certificate
(notwithstanding  any  notation of  ownership  or other  writing  hereon made by
anyone),  for the purpose of any exercise  hereof,  of any  distribution  to the
holder(s)  hereof,  and for all other purposes,  and neither the Company nor the
Warrant  Agent  shall be  affected  by any notice to the  contrary.  Neither the
Warrants nor this Warrant  Certificate  entitles any holder hereof to any rights
of a stockholder of the Company.

     6.   Countersignature.

     This Warrant  Certificate  shall not be valid unless  countersigned  by the
Warrant Agent.

     7.   Governing Law.

     This Warrant  Certificate  shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the internal laws of the State of New York.

     8.   Abbreviations.

     Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee,
such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common),  TEN ENT (= tenants by the  entireties),
JT TEN (=  joint  tenants  with  right of  survivorship  and not as  tenants  in
common), CUST (= Custodian) and U/G/M/A/ (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).

     A copy of the Warrant  Agreement  may be obtained by the holder hereof upon
written request to the Company.

B-2

[Form of Election to Purchase]

                    (To Be Executed Upon Exercise Of Warrant)

     The  undersigned   hereby   irrevocably   elects  to  exercise  the  right,
represented  by this Warrant  Certificate,  to receive  _______ shares of Common
Stock  and  herewith  tenders  payment  for  such  shares  to the  order  of WHX
CORPORATION, in the amount of $________ in accordance with the terms hereof.

------------------------------------------
                                    Signature
Date:

                                    ------------------------------------------
                                    Signature Guaranteed
Date:

Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the
requirements  of the Warrant Agent,  which  requirements  include  membership or
participation in the Security Transfer  Association  Medallion Program ("STAMP")
or such other "signature  guarantee program" as may be determined by the Warrant
Agent in addition to, or in substitution  for, STAMP, all in accordance with the
Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934,  as  amended,  and the rules and  regulations
promulgated thereunder.

B-3

SCHEDULE OF EXCHANGES OF INTERESTS OF GLOBAL WARRANTS

The following exchanges of a part of this Global Warrant have been made:

NUMBER OF WARRANTS IN
                            AMOUNT OF DECREASE         AMOUNT OF INCREASE IN         THIS GLOBAL WARRANT
                           IN NUMBER OF WARRANTS       NUMBER OF WARRANTS IN       FOLLOWING SUCH DECREASE
  DATE OF EXCHANGE        IN THIS GLOBAL WARRANT        THIS GLOBAL WARRANT              OR INCREASE
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

B-4

[FORM OF TRANSFER NOTICE]

     FOR VALUE  RECEIVED  the  undersigned  registered  holder  hereby  sell(s),
     assign(s) and transfer(s) unto

- -------------------------------------------

- -------------------------------------------

- -------------------------------------------

- -------------------------------------------

(Please  print in block  letters or typewrite  name and address,  including  zip
code, of assignee)

the within Warrant  Certificate and all rights  thereunder,  hereby  irrevocably
constituting and appointing as attorney to transfer the Warrants  represented by
this  Warrant  Certificate  on the  books  of the  Company  with  full  power of
substitution in the premises.

Date:

Seller

By: _____________________________________________________

          NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name
as written upon the face of the within-mentioned instrument in every particular,
without alteration or any change whatsoever.

Signature Guarantee: ______________________________________

Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the
requirements  of  the  Registrar,   which  requirements  include  membership  or
participation in the Securities Transfer Association Medallion Program ("STAMP")
or  such  other  "signature  guarantee  program"  as  may be  determined  by the
Registrar in addition to, or in substitution  for, STAMP, all in accordance with
the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  and the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder.

B-5

EXHIBIT C

                                   DTC LEGEND

UNLESS THIS  CERTIFICATE  IS PRESENTED BY AN  AUTHORIZED  REPRESENTATIVE  OF THE
DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION  ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS
AGENT FOR  REGISTRATION  OF TRANSFER,  EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT,  AND ANY CERTIFICATE
ISSUED  IS  REGISTERED  IN THE NAME OF CEDE   CO.  OR IN SUCH  OTHER  NAME AS IS
REQUESTED  BY AN  AUTHORIZED  REPRESENTATIVE  OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO
CEDE     CO.  OR  TO  SUCH  OTHER  ENTITY  AS  IS  REQUESTED  BY  AN  AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE  OF DTC),  ANY TRANSFER,  PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR
OTHERWISE  BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS  WRONGFUL  INASMUCH  AS THE  REGISTERED  OWNER
HEREOF, CEDE   CO., HAS A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN.

TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL  WARRANT ARE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE,  BUT NOT IN
PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR  THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S  NOMINEE
AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL  WARRANT ARE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS  MADE
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TRANSFER PROVISIONS OF THE WARRANT AGREEMENT.

C-1

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.7>
 13
 ex10710k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 10.7

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

     THIS AGREEMENT, dated and effective as of February 6, 2006, is entered into
by and among WHX CORPORATION ("WHX"), a corporation organized under the laws of
the State of Delaware, HANDY   HARMAN ("H H"), a corporation organized under the
laws of the State of New York, each with principal offices located at 555
Theodore Fremd Avenue, Rye, New York 10580 (collectively, the "Companies"), and
ELLEN HARMON (the "Executive"), an individual with a residence at 16 Hillandale
Road, Rye Brook, New York 10573.

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and the mutual covenants
herein contained, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as
follows:

     1.   EMPLOYMENT; TERM.

          (a) Executive's employment with each of the Companies shall begin as
of the date of this Agreement (the "Effective Date") pursuant to the terms and
conditions contained herein. The Executive shall hold the office of Vice
President, Secretary and General Counsel of each of the Companies. The Executive
shall perform all the duties consistent with these positions as set forth in
each of the Companies' By-Laws, as well as any other duties commensurate with
the Executive's positions that are assigned to the Executive from time to time
by the respective Board of Directors of each of the Companies (the "Boards").

     The Executive shall devote her full working time, attention and energies to
the business of each of the Companies and shall not, during the term of this
Agreement, be engaged in any other business activity, whether or not such
business activity is pursued for gain, profit or other pecuniary advantage;
however, this shall not be construed as preventing the Executive from investing
her personal assets in any business or venture which does not compete, directly
or indirectly, with either of the Companies in any manner, in such form or

manner as will not require any services on the part of the Executive in the
operation of the affairs of the entities in which such investments are made and
in which the Executive's participation is solely that of an investor, and the
Executive may purchase securities in any corporation for which securities are
regularly traded, provided, that such purchase shall not result in the Executive
beneficially owning at any one time one percent (1%) or more of the equity
securities of any corporation engaged in a business directly competitive with
either of the Companies.

          (b) The term of this Agreement shall commence on the date hereof and
shall continue in full force and effect until the first anniversary of the
Effective Date, at which time, and on each anniversary of the Effective Date
thereafter, the term of this Agreement shall be extended for a one (1) year
period until the next anniversary thereafter (such period, as it may be extended
from time to time, the "Term"), unless one party hereto shall provide notice of
termination to the other party hereto no less than thirty (30) days prior to
such anniversary or on such earlier date as this Agreement is terminated in
accordance with the provisions set forth below.

     2.   COMPENSATION. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement,
the Companies shall collectively pay to the Executive, as aggregate compensation
for the duties to be performed by the Executive under this Agreement, the
following:

          (a) A base salary of $260,000 per annum, to be paid in equal
installments no less frequently than monthly.

          (b) The Executive shall also be entitled to such annual bonus, if any,
as the Board or the Compensation Committee of WHX, in its sole and absolute
discretion, shall determine, in accordance with the terms of any bonus plan of
each of the Companies applicable to Executive.

2

(c) WHX agrees to grant Executive 25,000 options (the "Options") to
purchase WHX's common stock, pursuant to the draft 2006 WHX Corporation
Incentive Stock Plan (the "Plan"). Such Options shall be made available to
Executive as soon as practicable after March 31, 2006 (but in no event earlier
than WHX's receipt of shareholder approval for the Plan and the filing of a
Registration Statement on Form S-8 registering the securities to be issued
thereunder), and if such approval and registration is not obtained on or prior
to September 30, 2006, then Executive shall be issued 25,000 "phantom" options
in lieu of such Options, with such "phantom" options to have the same strike
price and vesting provisions as the Options would have had on September 30, 2006
had the Plan been approved by WHX's shareholders as of that date.

     3.   VACATION. The Executive shall be entitled to vacation, with pay, of
four (4) weeks in each calendar year. This vacation time shall be pro-rated for
partial employment in the final calendar year of employment.

     4.   BENEFITS. The Executive shall receive the benefits made available to
executives of each of the Companies, including without limitation the following:

          (a) Health insurance coverage, if and to the extent provided to all
other employees of each of the Companies;

          (b) A car allowance of $600.00 per month; and

          (c) Life insurance, disability insurance and 401-K benefits, if and to
the extent provided to executives of either of the Companies (excluding any
benefits anyone else is entitled to under any supplemental executive retirement
program).

     Executive acknowledges that to the extent that any of the compensation and
benefits described herein constitute wages or other taxable income to the

3

Executive, such wages or other taxable income shall be subject to applicable
income and employment tax withholding, as required.

     5.   TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT BY EACH OF THE COMPANIES. This Agreement may
be terminated by either of the Companies by providing notice to the Executive
pursuant to Section 12 below upon the occurrence of any of the following:

          (a) For Cause (as defined below);

          (b) Death of the Executive;

          (c) Disability (as defined below) of the Executive; or

          (d) Without Cause.

     The term "Cause," as used herein, means: (i) the Executive's engaging in
conduct which is materially injurious to either of the Companies or any of their
respective customer or supplier relationships, monetarily or otherwise; (ii) the
Executive's engaging in any act of fraud, misappropriation or embezzlement or
sexual or other harassment of any employee of either of the Companies; (iii) the
Executive's engagement in any act which would or does constitute a felony; (iv)
the willful or continued failure by the Executive to substantially perform her
duties, including, but not limited to, willful misconduct, gross negligence or
other acts of dishonesty; or (v) the Executive's material violation or breach of
this Agreement.

     The term "Disability," as used herein, means the Executive's absence from
the full-time performance of her duties hereunder for a period of at least
ninety (90) days, whether or not consecutive, within any twelve (12) consecutive
month period as a result of any incapacity due to physical or mental illness.

     If the Agreement is terminated pursuant to Sections 5 (a), (b), or (c),
then Executive shall be entitled to receive from each of the Companies the

4

aggregate of any due but unpaid compensation through the date of termination; if
pursuant to Section 5(b), all life insurance proceeds to which her estate is
entitled pursuant to any life insurance program maintained by either of the
Companies in which she is a participant; if pursuant to Section 5(c), any
disability insurance payments to which she is entitled pursuant to any
disability insurance program maintained by either of the Companies in which she
is a participant; and any expenses incurred and submitted for reimbursement, in
accordance with Section 8, but not paid prior to such termination. Executive
shall receive no further benefits or compensation, except as required by law.

     6.   TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT BY THE EXECUTIVE.

          (a) This Agreement may be terminated by the Executive by providing
written notice to either of the Companies within sixty (60) days following a
Material Diminution (as defined below) of the Executive's position, duties,
responsibilities or base salary compensation with either of the Companies or the
relocation of WHX's headquarters to a location more than 50 miles from Rye, New
York (a "Material Diminution or Relocation Termination Election"). In the case
of a Material Diminution or Relocation Termination Election by the Executive,
such Company or Companies shall have ten (10) business days following their
receipt of written notice of termination from the Executive to cure such
Material Diminution or Relocation. In the case of a Material Diminution or
Relocation Termination Election, if such Company or Companies do not cure such
Material Diminution or Relocation within the ten (10) business days following
its receipt of such Material Diminution or Relocation Termination Election from
the Executive, pursuant to this Section, termination of Executive's employment
shall be effective at the end of such ten (10) business day period.

                                       5

"Material Diminution" shall only mean a situation in which the Executive is
no longer employed as the Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of both
of the Companies, or employed or offered employment in substantially equivalent
positions of substantially equivalent companies, regardless of what, if any,
additional positions Executive may from time to time hold or not hold with each
of the Companies or its subsidiaries or affiliates, or the material diminution
of the duties or responsibilities commensurate with the positions of Vice
President, Secretary and General Counsel of each of the Companies, or a
reduction of the Executive's base salary compensation below the amount set forth
herein.

          (b) In all other instances, the Executive may voluntarily terminate
her employment upon thirty (30) days prior written notice to each of the
Companies.

     7. SEVERANCE AND OTHER PAYMENTS.

          (a) In the event the Executive's employment is terminated by either of
the Companies pursuant to Section 5(d) of this Agreement, which termination
shall include the giving of notice not to extend the Term pursuant to Section
1(b), the Companies collectively agree to pay to the Executive as aggregate
compensation: (i) a lump-sum cash payment equal to her then current annual base
salary (the "Severance Payment"); (ii) monthly COBRA payments of any
health-related benefits (medical, dental, and vision) as are then in effect for
either a 12-month period following termination or until the Executive obtains or
is eligible for coverage through a subsequent employer, whichever is earlier;
(iii) any bonus payment that Executive may be entitled to pursuant to any bonus
plans as are then-in-effect; and (iv) a car allowance, as provided pursuant to
Section 4(b), for a one year period after termination. Prior to, and as a
precondition to the payment of the Severance Payment, the Executive shall

6

deliver to each of the Companies a general release of each of the Companies,
their subsidiaries and affiliates, and each of their officers, directors,
employees, agents, successors and assigns (but excluding a release of each of
the Companies' continuing obligations under this Agreement and/or pursuant to
its continuing indemnification obligations to Executive under their charters,
bylaws, resolutions of each of the Board of Directors and under applicable
insurance policies), in a form acceptable to each of the Companies and provide a
Director Resignation (as defined below), if applicable. The Severance Payment
and bonus payment referred to in Section 7(a)(iii) shall be made no later than
ten (10) business days following the delivery by the Executive of the release
referred to above and the Director Resignation (if applicable), and if said
release and the Director Resignation are not so delivered within sixty (60) days
of the termination of the Executive's employment, then the Executive shall not
be entitled to receive any Severance Payment or other benefits described herein.
In all other instances, including termination of the Executive's employment for
Cause, termination pursuant to Sections 5(b) or 5(c) above, or if the Executive
voluntarily leaves the employment of each of the Companies (other than for a
reason set forth in Section 6(a) above), the Executive shall not be eligible or
entitled to, and neither of the Companies shall be obligated to make, any
payment following the Executive's termination, including the Severance Payment,
except as otherwise provided in Section 5 or Section 7(b), and each of the
Companies shall have no further obligations to the Executive including the
obligation for a car allowance. Executive agrees that, upon the termination of
her employment with each of the Companies, she shall immediately resign her
positions, if any, as an officer and director of each of the Companies and each
of its subsidiaries (the "Director Resignation").

          (b) In the event the Executive terminates her employment pursuant to
Section 6(a), and either of the Companies does not cure timely the situation as

7

provided in Section 6(a) under which the Executive has elected to terminate her
employment, then the Executive shall be entitled to receive from such Company or
Companies the same payments and benefits as provided for in the first sentence
of Section 7(a) above, subject to the same terms and conditions set forth for
the receipt of such payments and benefits as provided for in Section 7(a) above.

          (c) The Executive's entitlement to the Severance Payment and other
payments listed in the first sentence of Section 7(a) (except for COBRA payments
as provided therein), described in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) above, shall not be
impacted or otherwise effected by other employment the Executive may obtain and
the Executive shall be under no obligation to seek other employment in order to
receive such Severance Payment and other payments listed in the first sentence
of Section 7(a).

     8.   EXPENSES. Any ordinary and necessary expenses reasonably incurred by
the Executive in connection with her employment by each of the Companies, and
which are directly connected with or pertaining to the furtherance of the
business of each of the Companies in accordance with each of the Companies'
Travel   Expense Policy, shall be reimbursed to the Executive by each of the
Companies, within thirty (30) days from the date of the receipt of an expense
report, attaching receipts stating: (i) the amount of such expense; (ii) the
time and place that the expense was incurred; (iii) the business purpose of the
expense; and (iv) the business relationship to each of the Companies of persons
entertained, if any.

     9.   DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.

          (a) The Executive will not at any time, whether during or after the
termination of her employment, divulge, use, furnish, disclose or make available
to any person or entity, any non-public information concerning each of the
Companies' business, including without limitation, its marketing plans and
strategies, pricing policies, planned strategies related to sources of supply,
methods of delivery, customer names, purchasing needs and/or priorities of

8

customers, and the finances or financial information of each of the Companies,
so far as such information has come to her knowledge as a result of or
subsequent to her employment by each of the Companies, except to the extent that
disclosure may be required by law or to the extent that such information is in
the public domain through no fault of the Executive. The Executive acknowledges
that such information, including without limitation, information regarding each
of the Companies' customers, their purchasing needs and priorities, each of the
Companies' sources of supply, their business plans and financial condition, is
non-public, proprietary, and confidential and that the disclosure of such
information may cause each of the Companies substantial harm. Executive hereby
agrees to keep confidential all matters of such nature entrusted to her and
agrees not to use or attempt to use any such information in any manner that may
harm or cause injury to each of the Companies. In addition, copies of all data
files on Executive's own media must be deleted and a letter stating such must be
sent to each of the Companies promptly following the termination of Executive's
employment with each of the Companies, but no later than five business days
after receiving notice from either of the Companies demanding such deletion.

          (b) Executive agrees that upon termination of her employment with each
of the Companies she will immediately surrender and turn over to each of the
Companies all books, forms, records, reports, lists and all other papers and
writings, including items storing computer memory (except computer hard drives
from which items relating to each of the Companies and its business have been
deleted), relating to each of the Companies and their business, and all other
property belonging to each of the Companies, it being understood and agreed that
the same are solely the property of each of the Companies.

                                       9

(c) The provisions of this Section shall survive the expiration and
termination of this Agreement.

     10.  COVENANTS NOT TO COMPETE OR INTERFERE.

          (a) During her employment with each of the Companies, and for a one
year period following the termination of Executive's employment, the Executive
will not (i) directly or indirectly, own an interest in, operate, join, control,
or participate in, or be connected as an officer, employee, agent, independent
contractor, consultant, partner, shareholder, or principal of any corporation,
partnership, proprietorship, firm, association, person, or other entity engaged
in a business which sells, manufactures or produces the products sold,
manufactured or produced by each of the Companies and/or any of their
subsidiaries (the "Products") at the time of the termination of the Executive's
employment under this Agreement or which otherwise competes, directly or
indirectly, with each of the Companies or their subsidiaries (a "Competing
Business"), or (ii) knowingly solicit or accept business for a Competing
Business (x) from any customer of each of the Companies, or their subsidiaries,
(y) from any former customer of each of the Companies, or their subsidiaries,
who purchased any Products during the twelve months preceding the termination of
the Executive's employment under this Agreement, or (z) from any prospect of
each of the Companies, or their subsidiaries, with whom the Executive met to
solicit or with whom the Executive discussed the sale of any Products during the
twelve months preceding the termination of the Executive's employment under this
Agreement. Executive acknowledges that each of the Companies' sales of the
Products is national in scope. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive may
own up to 1% of the outstanding common stock of any class of common equity of a
publicly traded entity provided the Executive's role with the entity is passive
in nature.

10

(b) During her employment with the Company, and for a two year period
following the termination of Executive's employment, the Executive will not
directly or indirectly, as a sole proprietor, member of a partnership or
stockholder, investor, officer or director of a corporation, or as an employee,
agent, associate or consultant of any person, firm or corporation, induce or
solicit, or attempt to induce or solicit, any employee of either of the
Companies or its subsidiaries or affiliates to terminate his or her employment
with either of the Companies or in any way interfere with the relationship
between either of the Companies, or their subsidiaries or affiliates, and the
employee, and will not solicit, hire, retain or enter into any business
arrangements, with or enter into any discussion to do the same, with any person
working for, or independent contractor of, either of the Companies, or their
subsidiaries or affiliates.

          (c) During her employment with each of the Companies, and for a one
year period following the termination of Executive's employment, the Executive
will not directly or indirectly hire, engage, send any work to, place orders
with, or in any manner be associated with any supplier, contractor,
subcontractor or other business relation of each of the Companies, or their
subsidiaries or affiliates, if such action would have a reasonably foreseeable
adverse effect on the business, assets or financial condition of either of the
Companies or their subsidiaries or affiliates or materially interfere with the
relationship between any such person or entity and either of the Companies or
their subsidiaries or affiliates.

          (d) It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of
this Section 10 shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible under the
laws and public policies applied in each jurisdiction in which enforcement is
sought. Accordingly, if any particular portion of this Section 10 shall be
adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, then this Section 10 shall be deemed

11

amended to delete therefrom the portion that is adjudicated to be invalid or
unenforceable. The provisions of this Section 10 are intended to and shall
survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.

     11.  INJUNCTIVE RELIEF. In addition to the remedies available to each of
the Companies, the Executive acknowledges that any breach by the Executive of
the provisions of Sections 9 or 10 of this Agreement, would cause irreparable
injury to each of the Companies for which there may be no adequate remedy at
law. In addition to all of the rights and remedies to which each of the
Companies may be entitled, each of the Companies shall also be entitled to
obtain a temporary restraining order and/or a preliminary or permanent
injunction which would prevent the Executive from violating or attempting to
violate any such provisions. In seeking such an order, any requirement to post a
bond or other undertaking shall be waived. In any action brought to enforce
these restrictive covenants, each of the Companies shall be entitled to an award
of all reasonable costs and fees incurred in bringing such an action, including
reasonable attorney's fees. Nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting
each of the Companies from pursuing any other remedies for such breach or
threatened breach.

     12.  NOTICES. All notices, requests, demands and other communications
hereunder must be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given upon
delivery if delivered by hand, sent by telecopier, facsimile or overnight
courier, and three (3) days after such communication is mailed within the
continental United States by first class certified mail, return receipt
requested, postage prepaid, to the other party, in each case addressed as
provided in the introduction to this Agreement. Addresses may be changed by
written notice sent to the other party at the last recorded address of that
party.

                                       12

13.  INSURANCE. Each of the Companies may, at its election and for its
benefit, insure the Executive against accidental loss or death, and the
Executive shall submit to such physical examinations and supply such information
as may be reasonably required in connection therewith.

     14.  AUTHORITY. The Executive represents and warrants that she is not
subject to any agreement, understanding, arrangement, order, judgment or decree
of any kind, or any other restrictive agreement or arrangement, which would
prevent her from entering into this Agreement, or from providing the services
she is expected to provide as an employee of each of the Companies pursuant to
this Agreement, or which would be breached by the Executive executing this
Agreement. The Executive agrees to indemnify and hold each of the Companies
harmless from and for any liability to each of the Companies arising from a
breach of this representation and warranty.

     15.  ASSIGNMENT. The services to be rendered and the obligations to be
performed by the Executive under this Agreement are special and unique, and all
such services and obligations and all of the Executive's rights under this
Agreement are personal to the Executive and shall not be assignable or
transferable and any purported assignment or transfer thereof shall not be valid
or binding upon each of the Companies. However, in the event of the Executive's
death during the term of this Agreement, the Executive's estate shall be
entitled to receive salary and any other payment due and accrued through the
date of the Executive's death and all payments due to the Executive pursuant to
the provisions of Sections 5 and 7. Each of the Companies may assign this
Agreement and any and all of its rights under this Agreement to any person, firm
or corporation succeeding to the business of either of the Companies, provided

13

that such successor entity shall assume (by contract or by operation of law)
that Company's obligations under this Agreement, at which point such Company
shall be relieved of its obligations hereunder.

     16.  WAIVER OF BREACH. The waiver by either of the Companies or the
Executive of a breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be
construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by either of the Companies or the
Executive.

     17.  AMENDMENTS. No amendments or variations of the terms and conditions of
this Agreement shall be valid unless the same is in writing and signed by all of
the parties hereto.

     18.  COMPLETE AGREEMENT. This Agreement constitutes the entire
understanding between the parties hereto relating to the matters contained
herein, and supersedes any prior agreements, arrangements or understandings,
whether oral or written, relating to the employment of the Executive by each of
the Companies.

     19.  HEADINGS. The section headings contained herein are for convenience
purposes only and shall not in any way affect the interpretations or
enforceability of any provision of this Agreement.

     20.  SEVERABILITY. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of
this Agreement, whether in whole or in part, shall not in any way affect the
validity and/or enforceability of any other provision herein contained. Any
invalid or unenforceable provision shall be deemed severable to the extent of
any such invalidity or unenforceability.

     21.  COUNSEL. It is acknowledged by the Executive that she has had the
opportunity to be represented by counsel of her choosing in connection with the
negotiation and execution of this Agreement.

14

22.  GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement and all matters concerning its
interpretation, performance, or the enforcement hereof, shall be governed in
accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflict of
law principles.

     23.  JURISDICTION. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and
unconditionally submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of any state or federal
court sitting in the County of New York, State of New York, and each of the
parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that any and all
claims which arise out of or relate to this Agreement or to the Executive's
employment with each of the Companies shall be heard and determined in any such
court. Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives any
objection that either of them may now or hereinafter have to the venue of any
suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or to
the Executive's employment with each of the Companies in any state or federal
court sitting in New York County. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably
waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient
forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court. Each of
the parties hereto irrevocably waives the right to a trial by jury and each of
the parties irrevocably consents to service of process by first class certified
mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, to the address at which such
party is to receive notice in accordance with Section 12.

     24.  EXPENSES. In the event that either of the Companies or the Executive
incurs expenses in connection with the enforcement of this Agreement, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover all expenses incurred in
connection with such enforcement of this Agreement from the non-prevailing party
including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees.

     25.  COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in one or more
counterparts with each counterpart considered as an original.

15

26.  DUPLICATIVE PAYMENTS AND BENEFITS NOT INTENDED. For the avoidance of
doubt, all payments due and benefits recited hereunder are the joint and several
obligation of each of the Companies, and under no circumstance shall any payment
or benefit be provided to Executive by either Company as a duplicative payment
or benefit.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed and delivered
this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.

16

[SIGNATURE PAGE TO HARMON EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT]

                                            EXECUTIVE

Ellen Harmon

WHX CORPORATION

                                            By:
                                               ---------------------------------
                                               Name:
                                               Title:

HANDY   HARMAN

                                            By:
                                               ---------------------------------
                                               Name:
                                               Title:

17

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.9>
 14
 ex109to10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 10.9

SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN
               (As Amended and Restated as of January 1, 1998)

            This  Supplemental  Executive  Retirement  Plan  (the  "Supplemental
Plan") was adopted and established, effective September 28, 1989 and amended and
restated  effective  as of  January  1,  1995,  by  Handy    Harman,  a New York
corporation  (the  "Company"),  for Eligible  Executives who  participate in the
Handy   Harman Pension Plan (the "Pension  Plan") which Pension Plan is intended
to satisfy the  requirements  of the Internal  Revenue Code of 1986,  as amended
(the "Code"). The Supplemental Plan is hereby amended and restated, effective as
of January 1, 1996.

            1.    PURPOSE.  The Supplemental  Plan shall provide for the payment
                  of supplementary retirement benefits to compensate an Eligible
                  Executive  for the  amount of the  reduction,  if any,  in his
                  benefits  under  the  Pension  Plan  on  account  of  (i)  the
                  application of Section  401(a)(17) or Section 415 of the Code,
                  or (ii) the  exclusion  from "Pay," as defined in Section 3.10
                  of the Pension Plan of amounts  received  under the  Company's
                  Management Incentive Plan ("MIP").

            2.    PARTICIPATION.  As used in the  Supplemental  Plan,  the  term
                  "Eligible  Executive" shall mean any corporate  officer of the
                  Company who participates in the Pension Plan and is designated
                  by  the   Committee  (as  defined  in  Section  6  hereof)  to
                  participate  herein.  Subject to the  provisions of Section 10
                  hereof,  (i) no payment of any benefit accrued hereunder shall
                  commence to a  Participant  prior to the time  payments  would
                  otherwise  commence  under the terms of the  Pension  Plan and
                  (ii) no payment shall he payable  hereunder to any Participant
                  who has not been a  corporate  officer of the  Company  for at
                  least five (5) years.

            3.    RETIREMENT BENEFITS. The Participant's Accrued Monthly Pension
                  under the Supplemental  Plan shall be equal to the excess,  if
                  any, of (a) over (b), where:

            (a)   equals the Participant's Accrued Monthly Pension pursuant to
                  the Pension Plan determined without regard to the limits of
                  Section 401(a)(17) or Section 415 of the Code and including
                  within the definition of "Pay" under the Pension Plan either
                  (x) fifty percent (50%) of the amounts awarded to the Eligible
                  Executive pursuant to the MIP in respect of MIP plan years up
                  to and including 1994, or (y) twenty-five percent (25%) of the
                  amounts awarded to the Eligible Executive pursuant to the MIP
                  in respect of MIP plan years including 1995 and thereafter
                  (with the MIP award included in Pay for the plan year in which
                  it is paid); and

(b)   equal the Participant's  Accrued Monthly Pension as calculated
                  under the Pension Plan.

            Except as  provided  in  Section 10 hereof,  the  pension  under the
Supplemental Plan shall become payable at the same time as the pension under the
Pension Plan.

            A  Participant  may elect a form of payment  under the  Supplemental
Plan that is different  than the pension  payable  under the Pension  Plan.  The
following forms of pensions are available under the Supplemental Plan.

                  (i)   the  optional  forms of  pension  benefit  listed in the
                        Pension Plan

                  (ii)  the lump  sum  option  described  in  Section  11 of the
                        Supplemental Plan

                  (iii) any other form of monthly  pension  that is  approved by
                        the Committee

            Upon the death of an  Eligible  Executive  who has been a  corporate
officer of the Company for at least five years and has been  married for the one
year period ending on the date of his death,  a monthly  pension will be payable
to his  surviving  spouse during the same period that the  preretirement  spouse
pension is payable to the surviving spouse under the Pension Plan. The amount of
the monthly pension to the surviving spouse will be equal to the excess, if any,
of (c) over (d), where:

            (c)   equals the monthly  pension that is based on the amount of the
                  Participant's  Accrued  Monthly  Pension as  described  in (a)
                  above and  converted  to a  Preretirement  Spouse  Pension  as
                  described in the Pension Plan assuming that the spouse pension
                  is payable on the 100% Joint and Survivor Pension basis, and

            (d)   equals the amount of monthly pension payable under the Pension
                  Plan.

            The amount of  Supplemental  Plan pension payable to the Participant
or to the  surviving  spouse  shall not be adjusted by cost of living  increases
provided under the Pension Plan and the  Supplemental  Plan pension shall not be
decreased  by any  increase  in the Pension  Plan  pension due to cost of living
increases under the Pension Plan.

-2-

4. SOURCE OF BENEFITS.  The benefits  payable under the Supplemental
Plan  shall be paid  exclusively  from the  Company's  general  assets.  In this
regard.  the Company may create a grantor  trust  (within the meaning of section
671 of the Code) in connection with the Supplemental Plan to which it shall from
time to time contribute  amounts to accumulate a reserve against its obligations
hereunder. Such trust and any assets held by such trust to assist the Company in
meeting its obligations  under the Supplemental  Plan shall conform to the terms
of the model trust as  described in Internal  Revenue  Service  Procedure  92-64
(I.R.B.  1992-33).  Notwithstanding  the  creation of such trust,  the  benefits
hereunder shall be a general obligation of the Company. Payment of benefits from
such trust shall, to that extent, discharge the Company's obligations under this
Supplemental  Plan.  Eligible  Executives shall have only a contractual right as
general  creditors of the Company to the amounts,  if any, payable hereunder and
such right shall not be secured by any assets of the Company or the trust.

            5.  CONSTRUCTION.  The Company intends the Supplemental Plan to be a
benefit plan which is unfunded and is  maintained  by an employer  primarily for
the purpose of providing deferred  compensation for a select group of management
or highly compensated  employees,  within the meaning of Title 1 of the Employee
Retirement  Income  Security  Act  of  1974,  as  amended  ("ERISA"),   and  any
ambiguities in construction shall be resolved in favor of interpretations  which
will effectuate such intention.  The Supplemental  Plan shall be governed by and
construed  in  accordance  with the laws of the State of New York to the  extent
such laws are not preempted by ERISA.

            6.  ADMINISTRATION  OF THE SUPPLEMENTAL  PLAN. The Supplemental Plan
shall be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of
the Company  (the  "Committee").  The  Committee  shall have  authority to make,
amend,  interpret  and enforce all  appropriate  rules and  regulations  for the
administration  of the  Supplemental  Plan and  decide  or  resolve  any and all
questions  including  interpretations  of the Supplemental  Plan as may arise in
connection with the  Supplemental  Plan. The Committee shall designate from time
to time those eligible for inclusion in the Supplemental Plan. The Committee may
employ agents and delegate to them such administrative duties as if sees fit and
may consult  with  counsel who may be counsel to the  Company.  The  decision or
action  of the  Committee  in  respect  of  any  question  arising  out of or in

-3-

connection  with  the  administration,  interpretation  and  application  of the
Supplemental  Plan and the rules and regulations  thereunder  shall be final and
conclusive and binding upon all persons having any interest therein.

            7.  TERMINATION  SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT.  The Board of Directors of
the  Company  in its  sole  discretion  may  terminate,  suspend  or  amend  the
Supplemental  Plan at any  time or from  time to  time,  in  whole  or in  part;
provided,  however,  that no such  termination,  suspension  or amendment  shall
adversely  affect the  benefits of any  corporate  officer of the company who is
vested or eligible for  Disability  Retirement  under the Pension  Plan,  or the
pension to the surviving spouse of such a corporate officer who is then entitled
to a spouse pension.

            8. EFFECTIVE DATE. The effective date of the Supplemental Plan shall
be September 28, 1989, as amended  December 13, 1993, as amended and restated as
of January 1, 1995, and as amended and restated as of January 1, 1996.

            9.  GENERAL  CONDITIONS.  No  interest  of any person and no benefit
payable  hereunder  shall  be  assigned  as  security  for a loan  and any  such
purported  assignment shall be null, void and of no effect.  No such interest or
benefit shall be subject in any manner, either voluntarily or involuntarily,  to
anticipation, sale, transfer, assignment or encumbrance by or through any person
and any such purported action shall be null, void and of no effect.

            No Eligible  Executive  and no other  person shall have any legal or
equitable  right or interest in the  Supplemental  Plan which are not  expressly
granted hereunder. Participation hereunder does not give any person any right to
be retained  in the  service of the  Company or to  continue in its employ,  the
right  and power of the  Company  to  dismiss  or  discharge  any  executive  is
expressly reserved.

            10. ACCELERATION OF PAYMENTS.  In the event a "change of control" of
the Company  (as  hereinafter  defined)  shall  occur,  the lamp sum payment (as
hereinafter defined) of the amount of benefits hereunder shall be determined for
each Eligible Executive and each such person shall be deemed to be 100% vested.

-4-

The  aggregate  amount of all such lump sum  payments  shall be paid
into a grantor trust (which may include the grantor trust referred to in Section
4 hereof)  established by the Company for payment to such Eligible Executives in
accordance  with the terms of such trust  fund.  Such amount to be paid shall be
reduced  by the value of the  assets in such  grantor  trusts at the time of the
payment  with respect to the persons  reflected  in the lump sum  amounts.  Such
amount shall be paid to the trusts immediately upon the occurrence of the change
of control.

            Each  participant  will  receive  the  amount  of lump  sum  payment
calculated on his behalf  within 30 days of the change of control.  The lump sum
payment to each participant  under this  Supplemental Plan shall be equal to the
excess of (i) over (ii), where:

            (i)   equals  the lump sum  present  value of the  amount of monthly
                  pension  described  in  subsection  (a) of  Section  3 of this
                  Supplemental Plan,  determined as of the date of the change of
                  control,  in  accordance  with the  methodology  set  forth in
                  Section I.1 of the Pension Plan except that the interest  rate
                  for  the  Supplemental  Plan  will  be  equal  to  80%  of the
                  applicable  interest rate for the Pension  Plan,  and the lump
                  sum payment  will be  calculated  on the  assumption  that the
                  pension  would  have  commenced  on the first day of the month
                  following  the  participant's  60th  birthday  (current age if
                  older) and that the  Participant  would have been  entitled to
                  receive such benefits as an Early  Retirement  Benefit on such
                  date, and

            (ii)  equals  the lump sum  present  value of the  amount of monthly
                  pension  described  in  subsection  (b) of  Section  3 of this
                  Supplemental Plan,  determined as of the date of the change of
                  control,  in  accordance  with the  methodology  set  forth in
                  Section 1.1 of the Pension Plan.

            In  addition to the lump sum payment  described  above,  the Company
shall  reimburse each  participant  who receives such a lump sum payment for any
excise  tax  (and  any   income  and  excise  tax  due  with   respect  to  such
reimbursement)  imposed on such lump sum payments in connection with a change of
control of the Company  pursuant to Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986,  as  amended.  The  basis  for  such  reimbursement  calculation  shall be
consistent with similar  calculations  described in change of control agreements
of the Company.

            For purposes of the  Supplemental  Plan, a "change of control" shall
occur if:

            (a)   any  "Person,"  as such term is used in  Sections  13(d) and
                  14(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934,  as amended
                  (the  "Exchange  Act") (other than the Company,  any trustee
                  or other  fiduciary  holding  securities  under an  employee
                  benefit  plan  of  the  Company  or any  corporation  owned,
                  directly or indirectly,  by the  stockholders of the Company
                  in substantially  the same proportions as their ownership of
                  stock in the Company),  is or becomes the "beneficial owner"
                  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act),  directly
                  or  indirectly,  or securities  of the Company  representing
                  25% or more of the combined  voting  power of the  Company's
                  then outstanding securities;

-5-

(b)   during any period of two  consecutive  years (not  including
                  any period prior to the adoption of the Supplemental  Plan),
                  individuals  who at the beginning of such period  constitute
                  the Board of Directors of the Company,  and any new director
                  (other  than a  director  designated  by a  person  who  has
                  entered  into an  agreement  with the  Company  to  effect a
                  transaction  described  in  clause  (a),  (c) or (d) of this
                  Section)  whose election by the Company's  stockholders  was
                  approved  by a vote  of at  least  two-thirds  (2/3)  of the
                  directors  then still in office who either were directors at
                  the beginning of the period or whose  election or nomination
                  for  election  was  previously  so  approved,  cease for any
                  reason to constitute at least a majority thereof;

            (c)   the   stockholders  of  the  Company  approve  a  merger  or
                  consolidation  of the  Company  with any other  corporation;
                  other than (i) a merger or consolidation  which would result
                  in  the  voting   securities  of  the  Company   outstanding
                  immediately  prior thereto  continuing to represent  (either
                  by remaining  outstanding or by being  converted into voting
                  securities  of the  surviving  entity)  more than 70% of the
                  combined  voting  power  of  the  voting  securities  of the
                  Company or such  surviving  entity  outstanding  immediately
                  after  such  merger  or  consolidation  or (ii) a merger  or
                  consolidation  effected to implement a  recapitalization  of
                  the Company (or  similar  transaction)  in which no "Person"
                  (as  hereinabove  defined)  acquires  more  than  50% of the
                  combined  voting  power of the  Company's  then  outstanding
                  securities; or

            (d)   the  stockholders  of the  Company  approve a plan of complete
                  liquidation  of the  Company or an  agreement  for the sale or
                  disposition by the Company of all or substantially  all of the
                  Company's assets.

            11.   LUMP SUM  OPTION.  Unless  his  benefit is  accelerated  under
                  Section 10 hereunder,  a participant  who has a valid lump sum
                  payment  election in effect at his  termination  of employment
                  date will receive his benefits under the Supplemental  Plan in
                  a lump sum  payment  within the 30-day  period  following  his
                  termination of employment  date or, if later,  upon attainment
                  of age 60.  The  payment  will  be  made as soon as  practical
                  thereafter.  A lump  sum  payment  election  will be  valid if
                  approved by trustee or if either (i) it has been in effect for
                  at  least  12  months  and  is on a  form  authorized  by  the
                  Committee or (ii) in the event of extraordinary circumstances,
                  it has been approved by the Committee,  in as sole discretion,
                  upon  application by the  participant in accordance  with such
                  procedures established by the Committee.

-6-

The  amount  of the lump sum  payment  will be equal to the  monthly
pension  that is the excess of (a) over (b) as described in Section 3 multiplied
by the applicable  lump sum factor.  The applicable lump sum factor shall be the
same factor as  determined  for single sum amounts in Section 1.1 of the Pension
Plan except that the applicable  interest rate reflected in the  calculation for
the Supplemental  Plan will be equal to 80% of the applicable  interest rate for
the Pension Plan.

-7-

</EX-10.9>

<EX-10.10>
 15
 ex1010to10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 10.10

AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into as of the 31st day of July, 2003,
by and among the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, WHX Corporation, a
Delaware corporation, Wheeling-Pittsburgh Corporation, a Delaware corporation,
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and the United
Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC.

                                    RECITALS:

     WHEREAS, WHX is the administrator and contributing sponsor of a defined
benefit pension plan (the "WHX Pension Plan") which covers, among others,
substantially all of the employees of WPSC, including employees whose exclusive
collective bargaining agent is USWA;

     WHEREAS, PBGC, WHX and the USWA are parties to the Termination Litigation,
in which PBGC is seeking to terminate the WHX Pension Plan;

     WHEREAS, WPC, WPSC and the other Debtors are debtors in bankruptcy
proceedings pending in the Bankruptcy Court (Case Nos. 00-43394 through
00-43402) (the "Bankruptcy Proceedings");

     WHEREAS, WHX, WPC, WPSC and the other Debtors are currently members of
WHX's Controlled Group and are jointly and severally liable for liabilities of
the WHX Pension Plan;

     WHEREAS, as a condition to the consummation of the POR, the Debtors must
obtain a loan guarantee from the ESLGB;

     WHEREAS, an express condition to the loan guarantee from the ESLGB is that
WPSC achieve resolution of the treatment of the WHX Pension Plan that is
acceptable to and approved by PBGC;

     WHEREAS, upon emergence from bankruptcy pursuant to the POR, WPC, WPSC and
the other Debtors will not be part of the same Controlled Group as WHX and WPSC
will not be a Participating Employer under the WHX Pension Plan and, therefore,
Continuous Service will be broken as to employees of WPSC, the other Debtors and
OCC by the POR;

     WHEREAS, because Continuous Service will be broken as to employees of WPSC,
the other Debtors and OCC by the POR, such service cannot be broken by a
subsequent Permanent Shutdown and, therefore, such employees will no longer be
eligible for Rule of 65 Retirement Benefits or 70/80 Retirement Benefits by
reason of events occurring after the effective date of the POR;

     WHEREAS, PBGC desires additional means of protecting against "long-run
loss", and the Parties desire, among other things, to provide such additional

protections to resolve the Termination Litigation, to satisfy the requirements
of the ESLGB, and to allow the Debtors to emerge from bankruptcy, all upon the
terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement;

     WHEREAS, to address the foregoing concerns, WHX, WPC, WPSC, USWA, PBGC and
Ronald LaBow entered into a preliminary term sheet, dated July 24, 2003 (the
"Term Sheet") describing the key terms of the agreements of the Parties to be
memorialized in a final definitive agreement; and

     WHEREAS, the Parties desire to enter into this Agreement, which,
together with the LaBow Guarantee, shall constitute the definitive documentation
contemplated under, and supersede, the Term Sheet;

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and agreements of
the Parties contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the
receipt, adequacy and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and
intending to be legally bound, PBGC, WHX, WPC, WPSC, and USWA agree as follows:

     SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS.

          (a) As used in this Agreement (including the recitals hereto), the
following terms shall have the following meanings:

               "Affiliate" means, when used with respect to a specified Person,
another Person that, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries,
controls or is controlled by or is under common control with the Person
specified. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "control" (including, with
its correlative meanings, "controlled by" and "under common control with") shall
mean possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the
direction of management or policies (whether through ownership of securities or
other ownership interests, by contract or otherwise).

               "Agreement" means this Agreement, including all Attachments
hereto, as amended, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time.

               "Bankruptcy Court" means the United States Bankruptcy Court for
the Northern District of Ohio, in which the Bankruptcy Proceedings are pending.

               "Bankruptcy Proceedings" has the meaning assigned to such term in
the recitals to this Agreement.

               "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or
federal holiday.

               "Continuous Service" has the meaning assigned to such term in the
WHX Pension Plan.

2

"Controlled Group" has the meaning assigned to such term in
Section 4001(a)(14) of ERISA.

               "Damages" means all losses, claims, assessments, damages
(including incidental and consequential damages), liabilities, costs and
expenses, including interest, penalties and reasonable attorneys' fees and
disbursements.

               "Debtors" means, collectively, WPSC, PCC Survivor Corporation
(f/k/a Pittsburgh-Canfield Corporation), WPC, Consumers Mining Company, Wheeling
Empire Company, Mingo Oxygen Company, WP Steel Venture Corp., W-P Coal Company,
and Monessen Southwestern Railway Company.

               "EAF-Related Closing" means the closing of WPSC's blast furnace
no. 1 and coke batteries 1, 2, and 3 (tentatively scheduled for March 1, 2005)
in connection with the introduction of the electric arc furnace in accordance
with the New Business Plan, the requirements with respect thereto under the New
Senior Credit Facility, the Project Budget and the Project Plans.

"Enforcement Action" means any of the following actions: to
initiate or participate with others in any action to realize upon any of the
assets or stock of WPC or WPSC, including but not limited to commencing any
foreclosure proceeding or execution process or taking possession of or otherwise
proceeding against such assets or stock.

               "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, as amended, 29 U.S.C. ss. 1001 ET SEQ., and any successor statute of
similar import, together with the regulations thereunder, in each case as in
effect from time to time. References to sections of ERISA shall be construed to
refer to any successor sections.

               "ESLGB" means the Emergency Steel Loan Guarantee Board.

               "ESLGB Deadline" means August 15, 2003, or such later date to
which the ESLGB may extend the deadline for the satisfaction of the conditions
to its loan guarantee, provided that any such extension is made prior to the
expiration of the then-current ESLGB Deadline.

               "55/30 Retirement Benefits" means pension benefits described in
Section 2.3 of Schedule A of the WHX Pension Plan.

               "Idling" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section
5(a)(i).

               "Independent Director" has the meaning assigned to such term in
Rule 303 of the Rules of the New York Stock Exchange, as such Rule is in
existence on the date hereof or as such Rule may be amended, supplemented or
restated from time to time hereafter.

               "Internal Revenue Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended, 26 U.S.C. ss. 1, ET SEQ., and any successor statute of similar
import, together with regulations thereunder, in each case as in effect from

3

time to time. References to sections of the Internal Revenue Code shall be
construed to refer to any successor or substantially related sections of similar
import.

"LaBow Guarantee" has the meaning assigned to such term in
Section 4(c).

               "Maintenance Report" has the meaning assigned to such term in

         Section 5(d).

               "Multiemployer Plan" has the meaning assigned to such term in
Section 3(37) of ERISA.

               "New Business Plan" means the new business plan as described in
the Third Amended Disclosure Statement Pursuant to Section 1125 of the
Bankruptcy Code for Debtors' Third Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization dated
May 19, 2003.

"New Senior Credit Facility" means the senior secured credit
facility in an aggregate amount of up to $250,000,000 under the Term Loan
Agreement, dated as of July 31, 2003, among WPC, WPSC, RBC, as administrative
agent, and the other lenders party thereto and the other documents executed in
connection therewith.

"Noticed Permanent Shutdown" has the meaning assigned to such
term in Section 5(a)(iii)(B).

               "Notice Failure Damages" has the meaning assigned to such term in

Section 4(c).

               "OCC" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.

"Open Market Transaction" means a purchase or other acquisition
of any Senior Notes by WHX or any of its Affiliates on or through a national
securities exchange or through a transaction with a broker, other than in
connection with any tender offer, exchange offer or any other offer to pay,
purchase, redeem, exchange, acquire or retire Senior Notes that is made to all
holders of Senior Notes.

"Participating Employer" has the meaning assigned to such term in
the WHX Pension Plan.

               "Party" means, individually, each of WPC, WPSC, WHX, USWA, and
PBGC; "Parties" means, collectively, WPC, WPSC, WHX, USWA, and PBGC.

               "PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the United
States government agency that administers and enforces the mandatory termination
insurance program for defined benefit pension plans under Title IV of ERISA, 29
U.S.C. ss.ss. 1301-1461.

                                       4

"Permanent Shutdown" means a "permanent shutdown of a plant,
department or substantial portion thereof' as such phrase is used in the WHX
Pension Plan.

               "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited
partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
limited liability company, unincorporated association, government or regulatory
body (or any agency or political subdivision thereof) or other entity.

               "Plan Year" means, with respect to the WHX Pension Plan, the
"plan year" as defined in ERISA Section 3(39); PROVIDED that, for purposes
hereof, any "Plan Year" shall equal twelve months.

               "POR" means the Third Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization of the
Debtors dated May 19, 2003 (and all exhibits, addenda and other attachments
thereto), as filed with the Bankruptcy Court, to the extent modified by the Plan
Supplement dated June 13, 2003 and by the confirmation order dated June 18,
2003, and as it may be further amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from
time to time.

               "Project Budget" means the detailed budget with respect to the
design, engineering, procurement and construction of the electric arc furnace in
connection with the EAF-Related Closing.

               "Project Plans" means the project appropriation estimate prepared
by Continental Design and Management Group and any other technical or
environmental studies prepared by or on behalf of WPSC and related to the
design, engineering, procurement, construction, and environmental and other
permitting of the electric arc furnace in connection with the EAF-Related
Closing.

               "Rule of 65 Retirement Benefits" means pension benefits described
in Section 2.7 of Schedule A of the WHX Pension Plan.

               "Scheduled Maintenance Items" has the meaning assigned to such
term in Section 5(d).

               "Senior Notes" means the WHX 10.5% Senior Notes, maturing April
2005.

               "70/80 Retirement Benefits" means pension benefits described in
Section 2.6 of Schedule A of the WHX Pension Plan.

               "Single-Employer Plan" has the meaning assigned to such term in
Section 3(41) of ERISA.

               "60/15 Retirement Benefits" means pension benefits described in
Section 2.4 of Schedule A of the WHX Pension Plan.

5

"65/5 Retirement Benefits" means pension benefits described in
Section 2.1 of Schedule A of the WHX Pension Plan.

               "62/15 Retirement Benefits" means pension benefits described in
Section 2.2 of Schedule A of the WHX Pension Plan.

               "Special Payment" means pension benefits described in Section 3.2
of Schedule A of the WHX Pension Plan.

               "Surviving Spouse's Benefit" means pension benefits described in
Section 4.1 of Schedule A of the WHX Pension Plan.

               "Termination Litigation" means the litigation styled PBGC V. WHX
CORPORATION, Civil Action No. 03-CV-1553, now pending in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New York.

"Term Sheet" has the meaning assigned to such term in the
recitals to this Agreement.

"Unforeseen Circumstances" has the meaning assigned to such term
in Section 5(c).

"USWA" means the United Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC.

"Valuation Criteria Date" means the earlier of (i) the first
Business Day after WHX demonstrates to the satisfaction of PBGC that the WHX
Pension Plan has no unfunded benefit liabilities within the meaning of Section
4001(a)(18) of ERISA as of the last day of the Plan Year for any two consecutive
Plan Years, or (ii) the date that the public unsecured debt of WHX is rated at
least Baa3 by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and at least BBB- by Standard and
Poor's.

               "Waiver Request" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section
5(c).

               "WPC" means Wheeling-Pittsburgh Corporation, a Delaware
corporation.

               "WHX" means WHX Corporation, a Delaware corporation.

               "WHX Pension Plan" has the meaning assigned to such term in the
recitals to this Agreement.

               "WPSC" means Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation, a Delaware
corporation, prior to the effective date of the POR and Reorganized WPSC (as
defined in the POR) after the effective date of the POR.

          (b) OTHER DEFINED TERMS. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and
not defined in Section 1(a) shall have the meanings assigned to them elsewhere
in this Agreement.

                                       6

SECTION 2. WHX PENSION PLAN IS A SINGLE-EMPLOYER PLAN.

          (a) The Parties acknowledge and agree that the WHX Pension Plan is and
has been since its inception a Single-Employer Plan. WHX shall and hereby does
forever abandon, forfeit and waive any claim, contention or argument that the
WHX Pension Plan, as in effect on the date hereof, is a Multiemployer Plan. WHX
shall not claim, contend or argue that the WHX Pension Plan is a Multiemployer
Plan based on changed circumstances unless WHX has first provided to PBGC an
advisory opinion issued by the Department of Labor, based on such changed
circumstances, opining that the WHX Pension Plan is a Multiemployer Plan.

          (b) WHX shall, on or before the date that is 30 days after the date of
this Agreement, file (i) such amended annual returns (known as Form 5500) with
the appropriate governmental agencies as are necessary to reflect the WHX
Pension Plan's status as a Single-Employer Plan, (ii) an amended PBGC Form 1 for
2001 and 2002 to reflect that the WHX Pension Plan is a Single-Employer Plan,
and (iii) an amended PBGC Form lES for 2003 to reflect that the WHX Pension Plan
is a Single-Employer Plan, in each case with accompanying payment of any
deficiency in premiums due to PBGC as a result of such filings, together with
interest and penalties (such penalties to be calculated at 1% per month).

SECTION 3. BREAK IN SERVICE; NO RULE OF 65 RETIREMENT BENEFITS OR 70/80
RETIREMENT BENEFITS. WHX, WPC, WPSC and USWA hereby agree that: (a) no Permanent
Shutdown has occurred or will occur as a result of the POR and/or the
transactions contemplated therein; (b) as a result of the transactions to be
consummated on the effective date of the POR, WPC, WPSC and Ohio Coatings
Corporation ("OCC") will no longer be Participating Employers under the WHX
Pension Plan and, therefore, under the current terms of the WHX Pension Plan,
Continuous Service will be broken as to employees of WPC, WPSC, the other
Debtors, and OCC by the POR with respect to work performed for WPC, WPSC, any of
the other Debtors, or OCC, and no Continuous Service will be credited for work
performed for WPC, WPSC, any of the other Debtors, or OCC after the effective
date of the POR; (c) as a result, no participants in the WHX Pension Plan
employed by WPC, WPSC, any of the other Debtors, or OCC will accrue benefit,
eligibility, or vesting service beyond the effective date of the POR, nor shall
any such participants become entitled to Rule of 65 Retirement Benefits or 70/80
Retirement Benefits by reason of events occurring after the effective date of
the POR; and (d) the WHX Pension Plan shall be amended to allow up to 650 WPSC
USWA-represented employees who are eligible to receive 55/30 Retirement
Benefits, 62/15 Retirement Benefits, 65/5 Retirement Benefits or 60/15
Retirement Benefits based on the employee's years of Continuous Service as of
July 1, 2003, to receive a monthly window pension benefit equal to $40
multiplied by the employee's years of Continuous Service as of July 31, 2003,
along with a Special Payment and Surviving Spouse's Benefit (all as more fully
set forth in the amendment to the WHX Pension Plan attached hereto as Attachment
A).

     SECTION 4. SENIOR NOTES; SECURED FINANCING.

          (a) OPEN MARKET PURCHASES. On or before the date that is three
Business Days after the date on which WHX or any of its Affiliates purchases or

                                       7

otherwise acquires any Senior Notes in an Open Market Transaction, WHX shall
contribute to the WHX Pension Plan an amount equal to the amount paid by WHX
and/or its Affiliates to purchase or otherwise acquire such Senior Notes. In
addition, WHX shall provide PBGC at least 60 days advance written notice before
WHX or any of its Affiliates purchases or otherwise acquires Senior Notes in an
Open Market Transaction for an aggregate purchase price in any fiscal quarter
(taking into account the purchase price paid in connection with any other Open
Market Transactions during such quarter) in excess of $15,000,000. WHX shall
provide quarterly reports (on or before the fifth day of each calendar quarter)
to PBGC on the Open Market Transactions of WHX and its Affiliates and payments
to the WHX Pension Plan pursuant to this Section 4(a) made during the preceding
quarter. Monies contributed to the WHX Pension Plan under this Section 4(a)
shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any contributions required to be made
to the WHX Pension Plan under Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code, and WHX
shall maintain any credit balance (such credit balance being equal to the
additional contributions plus interest) resulting from these additional
contributions in the manner set forth in Attachment B to this Agreement. The
provisions of this Section 4(a) shall remain in effect until the first Business
Day following the maturity (including any extension thereof) of the Senior
Notes, except that the credit balance, if any, shall continue to be maintained
until the Valuation Criteria Date.

          (b) REFINANCING; SECURED FINANCING. WHX may refinance its existing
Senior Notes at any time on an unsecured basis. If WHX obtains any financing on
a secured basis (whether or not used to refinance the Senior Notes) or provides
or agrees to provide any security or collateral for the Senior Notes or in
connection with any extension of the maturity or modification or amendment of
any of the terms or provisions of the Senior Notes, then WHX shall
simultaneously grant to PBGC, pursuant to documentation, in form and substance
reasonably satisfactory to PBGC, a pari passu, perfected security interest,
securing all present and future obligations and/or liabilities of WHX to PBGC
arising under Section 4062(b) of ERISA up to $50 million (such amount to be
calculated pursuant to Section 4001(a)(18) of ERISA and PBGC regulations), in
the same collateral as may secure such financing, extension or modification. WHX
shall give PBGC reasonable advance written notice (and, in any event, at least
30 days advance written notice) of any proposed secured financing or other grant
of security or collateral. Any PBGC claim arising under Section 4062(b) of ERISA
in excess of $50 million shall be an unsecured claim. All provisions of this
Section 4(b) relating to a secured financing shall remain in effect until the
Valuation Criteria Date, at which time this Section 4(b) shall become of no
further force and effect (and any security interest granted hereunder shall
expire).

          (c) NOTICE OF PAYMENT; LABOW GUARANTEE. WHX shall provide PBGC at
least 60 days advance written notice before WHX or any of its Affiliates (i)
makes any tender offer, exchange offer, or other offer to pay, purchase, redeem,
exchange, acquire, or retire any of the Senior Notes (before, at, or after the
maturity thereof) or (ii) expends any funds or other resources or issues any
securities or other obligations to pay, purchase, redeem, exchange, acquire, or
retire any of the Senior Notes or (iii) extends the maturity of or otherwise
amends or modifies any of the terms or provisions of the Senior Notes; PROVIDED,
HOWEVER, that this 60-day notice provision shall not apply to unsecured
refinancings of the Senior Notes (before, at or after the maturity thereof) or
to purchases or other acquisitions of any Senior Notes in an Open Market
Transaction in accordance with Section 4(a) hereof. If WHX fails to provide the

8

notice required in Section 4(a) or this Section 4(c), WHX shall be liable to
PBGC (in addition to all other claims, rights and remedies available to PBGC)
for any Damages suffered or incurred by PBGC arising out of or in connection
with any action described in the second sentence Section 4(a) or clause (i),
(ii) or (iii) of this Section 4(c) taken by WHX or any of its Affiliates without
the requisite 60-day notice ("Notice Failure Damages"). Simultaneously with the
execution of this Agreement, Ronald LaBow, in his individual capacity, shall
execute and deliver to PBGC a guarantee, in the form attached hereto as
Attachment C (the "LaBow Guarantee"), pursuant to which he agrees to personally
guarantee the payment of any Notice Failure Damages (together with any fees or
expenses incurred in connection with enforcement of the LaBow Guarantee) up to a
maximum of $250,000 (plus the fees and expenses of enforcement of the LaBow
Guarantee), all as more fully set forth in the LaBow Guarantee. The LaBow
Guarantee shall be terminated at such time as (A) Ronald LaBow is no longer the
Chairman of the Board of Directors of WHX and (B) the new Chairman of the Board
of Directors of WHX shall have replaced the LaBow Guarantee with his or her own
personal guarantee (in substantially the same form as the LaBow Guarantee and,
in any event, reasonably acceptable to PBGC).

     SECTION 5. NOTICE OF SHUTDOWN; TERMINATION OF WHX PENSION PLAN.

          (a) PBGC, WHX, WPC, WPSC, and the USWA agree that:

               (i) After the effective date of the POR, WPSC shall provide to
WHX, PBGC and the USWA at least 60 days advance written notice of (A) any
Permanent Shutdown or (B) (except as otherwise expressly provided in Sections
5(b), 5(c), 5(d) and 5(e)) any idling or cessation of operations of any WPSC
plant, department or substantial portion thereof (any such idling or cessation
described in this clause 5(a)(i)(B), an "Idling").

               (ii) In the event that (A) WPSC delivers a notice required
pursuant to Section 5(a)(i)or 5(b)(ii) hereof, a Waiver Request or a Maintenance
Report, (B) WPC and/or WPSC fails to comply with any of their respective
obligations under this Section 5 or (C) an event of default under WPC's or
WPSC's credit facilities has occurred and ESLGB, RBC or any other lender (or any
agent for any lender) under WPC's or WPSC's credit facilities commences any
Enforcement Action, then WHX shall, upon request by PBGC, enter into an
agreement with PBGC (in a form substantially identical to Attachment D) for the
termination of the WHX Pension Plan pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA with a
termination date proposed by PBGC (which date shall be no later than one day
prior to any Permanent Shutdown), without the commencement of litigation by
PBGC.

               (iii) (A) If the WHX Pension Plan is terminated (in accordance
with Title IV of ERISA) and the termination date established under Section 4048
of ERISA is at least one day prior to a Permanent Shutdown, WHX's liability to
PBGC under Section 4062(b) of ERISA, if any, shall be fixed as of the
termination date, and such liability shall not be increased as a result of any
Permanent Shutdown occurring after the termination date.

                     (B) If (1) WPSC provides at least 60 days advance written
notice of a Permanent Shutdown (a "Noticed Permanent Shutdown") in accordance
with Section 5(a)(1)(A) above and timely fulfills its obligations under this
Section 5 and (2) WHX fulfills its obligations under this Agreement, then WHX's
liability to PBGC under Section 4062(b) of ERISA, if any, shall not be increased

9

at a result of such Noticed Permanent Shutdown from the amount of such
liabilities determined as if such Noticed Permanent Shutdown had not occurred.

                     (C) Except as to matters that are explicitly addressed in
this Agreement, WHX reserves all rights to otherwise object to any claim that
PBGC may assert; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that:

                         (1) WHX may not object to any PBGC claim on the grounds
that (A) all or a portion of the liability sought is not payable by WHX or
members of its Controlled Group because it should or must be allocated to WPSC,
to any of the other Debtors, or to OCC, or (B) the amount of liability of WHX
and its Controlled Group must be determined under the provisions of Section 4063
or 4064 of ERISA; and

                         (2) WHX acknowledges that, upon termination of the WHX
Pension Plan, the amount of liability of WHX and its Controlled Group for
unfunded benefit liabilities under the WHX Pension Plan, if any, shall be
determined under the provisions of Section 4062(b) of ERISA, subject to the
provisions of this Agreement.

               (iv) In furtherance of the obligations set forth in Section
5(a)(i) above, commencing on or before the effective date of the POR:

                    (A) WPSC shall file with the Secretary of State of the State
of Delaware a Certificate of Incorporation in the form attached hereto as
Attachment E. WPSC shall not modify or amend Article Eighth in any way until the
first to occur of (1) the tenth anniversary of the date of filing of such
Certificate of Incorporation, (2) the termination of the WHX Pension Plan in
accordance with Title IV of the ERISA, or (3) WPSC's receipt from PBGC of
written authorization of the proposed modification or amendment.

                    (B) WPC shall file with the Secretary of State of the State
of Delaware an amended and restated Certificate of Incorporation in form
attached hereto as Attachment F. WPSC shall not modify or amend Article Eleventh
in any way until the first to occur of (1) the tenth anniversary of the date of
filing of such Certificate of Incorporation, (2) the termination of the WHX
Pension Plan in accordance with Title IV of the ERISA, or (3) WPC's receipt from
PBGC of written authorization of the proposed modification or amendment.

          (b)  (i) Except as otherwise provided in Section 5(b)(ii), WPSC shall
not be required to provide the notice required by Section 5(a)(i)(B) with
respect to an Idling that (A) is not and will not be a Permanent Shutdown and
(B) WPSC reasonably expects to last 5 days or less (with operations resuming on
or before the 6th day).

               (ii) In the event that, notwithstanding WPSC's reasonable
expectation that such Idling will not last more than 5 days, operations have not
resumed on or before the 6th day, then WPSC shall on such 6th day provide a
notice of such Idling to PBGC, WHX and the USWA, which notice shall be in
writing and shall (A) include (1) a reasonably detailed description of the
Idling and the reason why such Idling was necessary, (2) the expected duration

10

of the Idling, and (3) the number of employees affected by the Idling; and (B)
include a certification by WPSC that (1) such Idling is not a Permanent
Shutdown, (2) the circumstances and other factors that caused the Idling are not
of the kind or nature that would lead to a Permanent Shutdown (including a
reasonably detailed explanation of why that is the case), and (3)
notwithstanding the fact that WPSC does not believe such Idling is or will
result in a Permanent Shutdown, if such Idling results in the need for or
likelihood of a Permanent Shutdown, WPSC shall be required to and shall give 60
days advance written notice of any such Permanent Shutdown in accordance with
Section 5(a)(i)(A) above.

               (iii) In the event that a notice is required under Section
5(b)(ii), on the last day of the period set forth in the notice in response to
Section 5(b)(ii)(A)(2) (the expected duration of the Idling), WPSC shall provide
PBGC, WHX and USWA with a status report on the progress of such Idling
(including any updated estimate of when operations will resume if operations
have not already resumed) and WPSC shall provide a final notice to PBGC, WHX and
USWA promptly when operations have resumed.

          (c) In the case of an Idling, WPSC may request (a "Waiver Request")
that WHX, USWA and PBGC waive (which waiver shall not be unreasonably denied)
the 60-day notice required under Section 5(a)(i)(B) if (i) such Idling is not
and will not be a Permanent Shutdown, (ii) such Idling is directly caused by
business circumstances that were not planned and not reasonably foreseeable by
WPSC as of the time that the 60-day notice would have been required under this
Section 5 ("Unforeseen Circumstances") and in the prudent management of its
operations WPSC has determined such Idling to be necessary, (iii) WPSC
reasonably believes that giving 60 days advance notice of such Idling would be
impracticable, (iv) such Idling is not reasonably expected to last more than 10
days, and (v) operations will resume upon the earlier to occur of the resolution
of the applicable Unforeseen Circumstances or 10 days.

               Any Waiver Request shall be in writing and shall:

(A) provide PBGC, WHX and USWA with as much advance notice
as practicable of the applicable Idling;

                    (B) be provided as promptly as practicable after WPSC
management has learned of the Unforeseen Circumstances or determined the
applicable Idling to be necessary;

                    (C) include a reasonably detailed description of (1) the
Idling, including the Unforeseen Circumstances and the reason WPSC determined
such Idling to be necessary, (2) the expected duration of the Idling (not to
exceed 10 days), (3) the timeline of when WPSC management learned of the
Unforeseen Circumstances and when WPSC management determined the Idling to be
necessary, (4) the reason why WPSC believes 60 days advance written notice would
be impracticable to give, and (5) the number of employees affected by the
Idling; and

                    (D) include a certification by WPSC that (1) such Idling is
not a Permanent Shutdown, (2) the Unforeseen Circumstances and other factors
that caused the Idling are not of the kind or nature that would lead to a
Permanent Shutdown (including a reasonably

11
 
detailed explanation of why that is the case), and (3) notwithstanding the fact
that Vs/PSC does not believe such Idling is or will result in a Permanent
Shutdown, if such Idling results in the need for or likelihood of a Permanent
Shutdown, WPSC shall be required to and shall give 60 days advance written
notice of any such Permanent Shutdown in accordance with Section 5(a)(i)(A)
above.

                    In the event that a Waiver Request is granted, WPSC shall
provide PBGC, WHX and USWA with daily status reports on the progress of such
Idling and an estimate of when operations will resume, commencing upon the 8th
day following the commencement of such Idling and continuing until operations
have resumed (and shall provide a final notice to PBGC, WHX and USWA promptly
when operations have resumed).

                    The Parties agree that it shall not be unreasonable for WHX,
USWA and/or PBGC to deny a Waiver Request if such Waiver Request is not given by
WPSC as promptly as practicable after WPSC management has learned of the
Unforeseen Circumstances or determined the applicable Idling to be necessary.

          (d)  (i) On or before the 5th day of each calendar quarter, WPSC shall
provide PBGC, WHX and the USWA with a report (a "Maintenance Report")
identifying all maintenance, repairs, upgrades, enhancements, improvements and
replacements ("Scheduled Maintenance Items") that WPSC has scheduled during the
next 4 calendar quarters. Each Maintenance Report shall contain for each
Scheduled Maintenance Item (A) a reasonably detailed description of such
Scheduled Maintenance Item, (B) the approximate timing of such Scheduled
Maintenance Item, (C) the expected duration of such Scheduled Maintenance Item,
(C) the equipment affected by such Scheduled Maintenance Item (or any new
equipment being added or old equipment being removed), (D) the plant or location
affected by such Scheduled Maintenance Item, and (E) the number of employees
affected by such Scheduled Maintenance Item.

               (ii) Each Maintenance Report shall be accompanied by a
certification by WPSC that (1) no Scheduled Maintenance Item is or will result
in a Permanent Shutdown, (2) the Scheduled Maintenance Items and other factors
that required the Scheduled Maintenance Items are not of the kind or nature that
would lead to a Permanent Shutdown (including a reasonably detailed explanation
of why that is the case), and (3) notwithstanding the fact that WPSC does not
believe any Scheduled Maintenance Item is or will result in a Permanent
Shutdown, if any such Scheduled Maintenance Item results in the need for or
likelihood of a Permanent Shutdown, WPSC shall be required to and shall give 60
days advance written notice of any such Permanent Shutdown in accordance with
Section 5(a)(i)(A) above.

               (iii) WPSC shall not be required to provide the notice required
by Section 5(a)(i)(B) with respect to an Idling that (A) is not and will not be
a Permanent Shutdown and (B) is solely and exclusively to perform a Scheduled
Maintenance Item that was listed on a Maintenance Report satisfying the
requirements of this Section 5(d) and that is performed in accordance with the
description of such Scheduled Maintenance Item included in such Maintenance
Report.

12

(e) WHX, WPC, WPSC, and the USWA hereby acknowledge and agree that the
EAF-Related Closing does not and will not constitute a Permanent Shutdown. WHX,
the USWA and PBGC hereby acknowledge and agree that no further notice under
Section 5(a)(i) shall be required with respect to the EAF-Related Closing.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, WPSC hereby certifies that if the EAF-Related
Closing results in the need for or likelihood of a Permanent Shutdown, WPSC
shall be required to and shall give 60 days advance written notice of any such
Permanent Shutdown in accordance with Section 5(a)(i)(A) above. Nothing herein
shall have any effect on the application or operation of any basic labor
agreement between WPSC or WPC (or both) and the USWA after the effective date of
the POR.

          (f) WPC hereby agrees to cause WPSC to prepare and deliver all notices
and reports required under this Section 5.

     SECTION 6. USWA OBLIGATIONS. The USWA agrees not to contest in any forum
the termination of the WHX Pension Plan, the termination date, or the
appointment of PBGC as trustee of the WHX Pension Plan. The USWA further agrees
not to bring or to support (directly or indirectly) or to fund directly or
indirectly any litigation or other proceeding against PBGC and/or WHX and/or the
WHX Pension Plan in connection with the matters referred to in this Agreement,
including any litigation or proceeding (A) asserting that participants in the
WHX Pension Plan employed by WPSC, any of the other Debtors or OCC are entitled
to Rule of 65 Retirement Benefits or 70/80 Retirement Benefits based on events
subsequent to the effective date of the POR (including any Permanent Shutdown),
(B) asserting that participants in the WHX Pension Plan are entitled to any
other benefits inconsistent with the provisions of Section 3 of this Agreement,
and/or (C) challenging the termination of the WHX Pension Plan, the termination
date, or the appointment of PBGC as trustee of the WHX Pension Plan.

     SECTION 7. PBGC OBLIGATIONS. In consideration of the obligations of WHX,
WPC, WPSC and USWA under this Agreement, PBGC agrees: (a) not to institute any
supplemental or additional proceedings to terminate the WHX Pension Plan
pursuant to Title IV of ERISA prior to the effective date of the POR, except as
permitted under or otherwise contemplated by this Agreement; and (b) to withdraw
its claims in the Bankruptcy Proceedings.

     SECTION 8. ERISA LIABILITY. The Parties acknowledge and agree that after
the effective date of the POR, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in
Section 14 of this Agreement, (a) WPC and WPSC will not be part of the same
Controlled Group as WHX, (b) neither WPC nor WPSC will be a Participating
Employer under the WHX Pension Plan, and (c) neither WPC nor WPSC shall have any
liability under Section 4007, 4062(b), 4062(c), 4063, 4064 or 4069 of ERISA with
respect to the WHX Pension Plan. Nothing contained in this Section 8 shall
reduce, impair or otherwise limit any liability that WPC or WPSC would have to
PBGC or WHX if WPC and/or WPSC breaches any of their obligations under this
Agreement.

SECTION 9. WHX AGREEMENTS. WHX acknowledges and agrees that WHX shall not
object to any claim asserted against WHX by PBGC on the grounds that all or any
portion of the liability under such claim is not payable by WHX or members of
its Controlled Group because (a) such liability should or must be allocated to
WPSC, any of the other Debtors, or OCC, or (b) the amount of liability of WHX
and its Controlled Group must be determined under the provisions of Section 4063
or 4064 of ERISA. WHX further acknowledges and agrees that, upon termination of

13

the WHX Pension Plan, the amount of liability of WHX and its Controlled Group
for unfunded benefit liabilities under the WHX Pension Plan, if any, shall be
determined under the provisions of Section 4062(b) of ERISA, subject to the
provisions of this Agreement.

     SECTION 10. DISMISSAL OF TERMINATION LITIGATION. Upon satisfaction of the
conditions precedent set forth in Section 14 of this Agreement, PBGC, WHX, and
USWA shall sign a stipulation, and/or such other documents as may be required,
to effect the dismissal of the Termination Litigation with prejudice. Nothing in
this Agreement shall inhibit, impair or otherwise affect PBGC' s right to seek
termination of the WHX Pension Plan as a result of events that take place after
the date of this Agreement.

     SECTION 11. INFORMATION AND REPORTS. Each of WHX, WPC and WPSC shall
provide to PBGC the information and reports required of such Person pursuant to
Attachment G hereto.

     SECTION 12. NOTICE OF AGREEMENT. USWA shall provide its affected members
with a summary of those aspects of this Agreement affecting their rights as
participants under the WHX Pension Plan, including, in particular, a summary of
Sections 3, 5, 6 and 15 hereof.

     SECTION 13. PLAN CHANGES; RESTRUCTURING. WHX shall not cease to be the
sponsor of the WHX Pension Plan (or any permitted successor pension plan)
without the prior written consent of PBGC. Except as expressly provided in
Section 3(d), WHX shall not amend, supplement or modify the WHX Pension Plan (or
any permitted successor pension plan) or otherwise change, spin off or redesign
the obligations or rights under the WHX Pension Plan (or any permitted successor
pension plan) without the prior written consent of PBGC (which consent shall not
be unreasonably withheld); PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that PBGC will not withhold its
consent to the spin off of all (but not less than all) of the Handy   Harman
participants in the WHX Pension Plan to another Person within the WHX Controlled
Group so long as (a) such spin off complies with the next succeeding sentence
and (b) such Person agrees in a writing, satisfactory to PBGC, that (i) such
Person shall not cease to be the sponsor of such spun-off plan (or any permitted
successor pension plan) without the prior written consent of PBGC and (ii) such
Person shall not amend, supplement or modify such spun-off plan (or any
permitted successor pension plan) or otherwise change, spin off or redesign the
obligations or rights under such spun-off plan (or any permitted successor
pension plan) without the prior written consent of PBGC (which consent shall not
be unreasonably withheld). In any (A) merger or consolidation of the WHX Pension
Plan, or (B) transfer of WHX Pension Plan assets or liabilities, that is subject
to Section 414(1) of the Internal Revenue Code (other than a de minimis
transaction), the allocation of assets to various priority categories under
Section 4044 of ERISA shall be made using PBGC safe harbor assumptions as
specified in Treas. Reg. ss. 1.414(1)-1(b)(5)(ii). WPC, WPSC and their
Affiliates shall not transfer or otherwise restructure any of the operations of
WPSC in any manner such that a Permanent Shutdown could occur at the operations
of another Person, unless prior to any such transfer or restructure, such other
Person agrees in writing, in form and substance satisfactory to WHX and PBGC, to
comply, together with WPSC, with all obligations of WPSC set forth in this
Agreement, including the inclusion of a provision in the charter of such Person
consistent with Section 5(a)(iv)(A) hereof and compliance with this Section 13
with respect to any future transfer or restructure of such operations.

14

SECTION 14. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT. The obligations and agreements of the
Parties set forth in Sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 hereof are
expressly conditioned on satisfaction of the following conditions precedent: (a)
the effective date of the POR shall have occurred; (b) the ESLGB shall have
executed and delivered its guarantee with respect to the New Senior Credit
Facility; (c) the initial funding under the New Senior Credit Facility shall
have been made by the ESLGB Deadline; and (d) no Permanent Shutdown shall have
occurred. The obligations and agreements of the Parties set forth in Sections 2
and 14 shall be binding and unconditional obligations and agreements, and are
not conditioned on the satisfaction of the foregoing conditions precedent.

     SECTION 15. FAILURE OF CONDITIONS PRECEDENT. If the conditions precedent
described in Section 14 above are not satisfied on or before the ESLGB Deadline,
then, (a) within 10 days of the ESLGB Deadline, WHX and the USWA shall enter
into a consent judgment terminating the WHX Pension Plan, appointing PBGC
trustee of the WHX Pension Plan, and establishing March 7, 2003 as the
termination date of the WHX Pension Plan, and (b) WHX and the USWA shall
promptly (and in any event within 10 days after requested to do so) execute,
deliver and acknowledge, or cause to be executed, delivered and acknowledged,
such further documents and instruments and promptly (and in any event within 10
days after requested to do so) do such other acts as PBGC may reasonably request
in order to fully effect the entry of such consent judgment. Such consent
judgment shall also provide that WHX and its subsidiaries (other than the
Debtors) shall maintain their right to contest the amount of their liability, if
any, with respect to the WHX Pension Plan. In addition, upon the entry of such
consent judgment (provided, that there has been no Permanent Shutdown prior to
entry of such consent judgment), PBGC, WHX, WPC, WPSC and the USWA will
acknowledge and agree that (i) the WHX Pension Plan has been terminated as of
March 7, 2003 as a result of the entry of such consent judgment, (ii) there has
been no Permanent Shutdown prior to entry of such consent judgment, and (iii)
WHX has no additional liability to PBGC with respect to the WHX Pension Plan
under Section 4062(b) of ERISA resulting from any Permanent Shutdown.

     SECTION 16. CONFIDENTIALITY. The confidentiality agreements between PBGC
and each of WHX and WPSC, as currently in effect, shall each remain in effect
during the term of this Agreement.

     SECTION 17. TERMINATION. This Agreement shall terminate on the earlier of
(a) the date on which all of the Parties consent in writing to such termination
or (b) the date on which WHX, or any permitted successor thereto, is no longer a
sponsor of the WHX Pension Plan (or any permitted successor pension plan);
PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the provisions of Section 6 hereof shall survive
termination of this Agreement.

     SECTION 18. FURTHER ASSURANCES. Each Party agrees to take such further
action and to execute and deliver such further instruments and documents as any
other Party may reasonably request to carry out fully, and to accomplish the
purposes of, this Agreement

15

SECTION 19. MISCELLANEOUS.

          (a) NOTICES. All notices, requests, demands and other communications
required or permitted under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be
delivered personally, via facsimile transmission (with receipt confirmed), by
overnight courier (with receipt confirmed), or by registered or certified mail,
postage prepaid, in each case to the Parties at the addresses and facsimile
numbers set forth below (or to such other addresses and facsimile numbers as a
Party may have specified by notice given to the other Parties pursuant to this
Section 19(a)).

If to WHX:

               President
               WHX Corporation
               110 East 59th Street
               New York, NY 10022

          If to PBGC:

               Director
               Corporate Finance and Negotiations Department
               Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
               1200 K Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20005

               and

               General Counsel
               Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
               1200 K Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20005

          If to WPC:

               Wheeling-Pittsburgh Corporation
               1134 Market Street
               Wheeling, WV 26003
               Attention: James G. Bradley, President and CEO

          If to WPSC:

               The Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation
               1134 Market Street
               Wheeling, WV 26003
               Attention: James G. Bradley, President and CEO

16

If to USWA:

               United Steelworkers of America
               Five Gateway Center
               Pittsburgh, PA 15222
               Attention: Paul Whitehead, General Counsel

          All such notices, requests and other communications shall be deemed
received on the date of receipt by the recipient thereof if received prior to
5:00 p.m. in the place of receipt and such day is a Business Day in the place of
receipt. Otherwise, any such notice, request or communication shall be deemed to
have been received on the next succeeding Business Day in the place of receipt.

          (b) ASSIGNMENT; SUCCESSORS; THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES. No Party may
assign this Agreement or any of its rights, interests or obligations hereunder
without the prior written consent of the other Parties (which consent shall not
be unreasonably withheld). This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the
benefit of the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
Nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer
upon any other Person any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any
nature whatsoever.

          (c) NON-EXCLUSIVE REMEDIES; RESERVATION OF RIGHTS. None of the rights,
remedies or privileges expressly provided for in this Agreement shall be
exclusive, but each of them shall be cumulative with and in addition to every
other right, remedy and privilege power now or hereafter existing in favor of a
Party, whether at law or in equity, by statute or otherwise. Nothing in this
Agreement shall preclude PBGC from exercising its regulatory, enforcement,
litigation or other authority as set forth in ERISA and the Internal Revenue
Code with respect to any Person, other than as expressly provided otherwise in
this Agreement.

          (d) ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement, the Guarantee and any other
documents or instruments delivered or to be delivered in connection herewith
constitute the entire agreement among the Parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof, and supersede the Term Sheet and all other all prior and
contemporaneous agreements or understandings, whether written or oral, among the
Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.

          (e) AMENDMENTS. This Agreement may be amended only by a written
instrument executed by the Parties.

          (f) WAIVER. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be
effective unless made in writing and signed by an authorized representative of
the waiving Party. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall constitute
a waiver of any prior, concurrent or subsequent breach of the same or any other
provisions hereof.

          (g) SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Agreement or the
application thereof becomes or is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be illegal, void or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect, and the Parties shall use best efforts to
replace such void or unenforceable provision of this Agreement with a valid and

17

enforceable provision that will achieve, to the extent possible, the economic,
business and other purposes of such void or unenforceable provision.

          (h) GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed
in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to its
principles of conflicts of law, and by ERISA, the Internal Revenue Code and
other laws of the United States to the extent they preempt the laws of the State
of New York.

          (i) COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in one or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which
together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Copies of executed
counterparts transmitted by telecopy, telefax or other electronic transmission
service shall be considered original executed counterparts for purposes of this
paragraph.

          (j) INTERPRETATION. The words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and
other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole, as the same
may from time to time be amended or supplemented. The headings of the Sections
are inserted for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be a part
of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the
context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine,
feminine and neuter forms. As used in this Agreement, the words "include,"
"includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without
limitation." This Agreement shall not be construed in favor of or against either
Party by reason of the extent to which such Party or its professional advisors
participated in the preparation of this Agreement or based on a Party's
undertaking of any obligation under this Agreement. Any reference in this
Agreement to a "day" or a number of "days" (without the explicit qualification
of "Business") shall be interpreted as a reference to a calendar day or number
of calendar days.

18

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have each executed this Agreement as
of the date set forth above.

PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY
                                                  CORPORATION

                                                  By: /s/ Steven A. Kandarian
                                                      --------------------------
                                                  Steven A. Kandarian
                                                  Executive Director

WHX CORPORATION

                                                  By: /s/ Ronald LaBow
                                                      --------------------------
                                                  Ronald LaBow
                                                  Chairman

                                                  By: /s/ Stewart Tabin
                                                      --------------------------
                                                  Stewart Tabin
                                                  Assistant Treasurer

WHEELING-PITTSBURGH
                                                  CORPORATION

                                                  By: /s/ James Bradley
                                                      --------------------------
                                                  Name:
                                                  Title:

WHEELING-PITTSBURGH STEEL
                                                  CORPORATION

                                                  By: /s/ James Bradley
                                                      --------------------------
                                                  James Bradley
                                                  Chief Executive Officer

19

UNITED STEELWORKERS OF
                                                  AMERICA, AFL-CIO-CLC

                                                  By: /s/ Leo W. Gerard
                                                      --------------------------
                                                  Name: Leo W. Gerard    7/31/03
                                                  Title: International President

ATTACHMENTS

Attachment A  Amendment to WHX Pension Plan
Attachment B  Required Credit Balance
Attachment C  LaBow Guarantee
Attachment D  Agreement for Appointment of Trustee and Termination of Plan
Attachment E  WPSC Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
Attachment F  WPC Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
Attachment G  Information and Reports

ATTACHMENT A

WHX PENSION PLAN
                                   SCHEDULE A
                      WHEELING-PITTSBURGH STEEL CORPORATION
                         BARGAINING UNIT PENSION PROGRAM

PROGRAM SCHEDULE 4

                    RETIREMENT ENHANCEMENTS FOR PARTICIPANTS
                     WHO ELECT RETIREMENT AFTER RATIFICATION
                              OF THE 2003 AGREEMENT

As provided in the agreement entered into on July 31, 2003 by and among WHX
Corporation (the "Company"), the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC"),
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Corporation, Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation ("WPSC")
and the United Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC (the "2003 Agreement"), WPSC
will offer, by Seniority, up to 650 retirement enhancements set forth in Section
3 of this Program Schedule 4, consisting of (1) unreduced regular pension, (2)
the Special Payment provided in Section 13.2 of the Plan, and (3) the Surviving
Spouse Benefit provided in Section 4.1 of the Plan. Such retirement enhancements
shall be available until the occasion of the 650th severance. A severance is an
individual who was accruing seniority as of July 31, 2003 severing employment.

     This Program Schedule 4 provides for the payment of certain special pension
benefits from the Plan to those Participants who are entitled to receive a
retirement enhancement benefit under this Program Schedule 4.

     1. ELIGIBILITY. Eligibility to receive the additional benefits provided by
this Program Schedule 4 is limited to those Participants who as of July 1, 2003,
were accruing pension continuous service and as of July 1, 2003 meet at least
the age and service requirements for (a) a Normal Retirement as provided in
paragraph 2.1 of Schedule A,(b) a 62/15 Retirement as provided in paragraph 2.2
of Schedule A, (c) a 55/30 Year Retirement as provided in paragraph 2.3 of
Schedule A, or (d) a 60/15 Retirement, as provided in paragraph 2.4 of Schedule
A. In addition, a Participant shall not be eligible to receive a retirement
enhanced benefit under this Program Schedule 4 until such time as the
Participant has executed and has not revoked a release in a form satisfactory to
the Company, unless the right to a release is waived by the Company.

     2. APPLICATION PERIOD. There will be a period during which eligible
Participants may apply for and be granted retirement enhancements. This period
shall begin on the ratification date, and shall end on the date of the 650th
severance.

WPSC will send written notice to each Participant who meets the age and
service requirements for the retirement enhancement program. Participants will
have an opportunity to apply for a retirement enhancement by returning an
application within a prescribed period. Within seven days after the close of
such application period, WPSC will notify all applicant Participants in writing
whether their applications have been granted or denied.

     To receive a retirement enhancement, applicants whose retirement
enhancement requests are granted must retire no later than January 31, 2004.
Failure of a Participant to so retire shall render the Participant ineligible
for a retirement enhancement.

     WPSC shall have the right to defer retirement of any Participant who elects
to retire under the terms of the retirement enhancement program by up to three
months if necessary in order to ensure the availability of qualified
Participants; in extraordinary circumstances WPSC may extend such deferral for
up to an additional three months.

     3. RETIREMENT ENHANCEMENTS. With respect to a Participant who shall become
entitled to a retirement enhancement in accordance with this Program Schedule 4,
such retirement enhancement shall include the following benefits from the Plan:

        (A)   UNREDUCED REGULAR PENSION. The Participant shall receive an
              unreduced regular pension of $40 per month multiplied by years of
              continuous service through July 31, 2003.

        (B)   SPECIAL PAYMENT. The Participant shall be eligible to receive the
              Special Payment as provided in paragraph 3.2 of Schedule A.

        (C)   SURVIVING SPOUSE BENEFIT. If tile Participant has 15 years of
              continuous service as of July 31, 2004, the Participant shall be
              eligible for a Surviving Spouse Benefit as provided in Article 4
              of Schedule A based on the pension amount provided in paragraph
              (a) of this section.

     In the event that a Participant's retirement pursuant to the retirement
enhancement program has been deferred by WPSC, and such Participant dies prior
to his actual retirement, there shall be paid in respect of such a Participant a
special payment of $10,000 to the Participant's surviving spouse, if any, or the
Co-Pensioner if such option was elected by such Participant for the regular
pension.

ATTACHMENT B

ATTACHMENT B

WHX shall maintain the "Required Credit Balance" throughout the term of this
agreement as follows. WHX shall make such additional contributions to the WHX
Pension Plan that are necessary to insure that the WHX Pension Plan's Required
Credit Balance is preserved as of the end of each Plan Year.

The "Required Credit Balance" shall be determined as follows:

1. The Required Credit Balance as of December 31, 2002 is zero.

2. For each Plan Year ending December 31, 2003 and thereafter for so long as
this Agreement is in effect, the WHX Pension Plan's Required Credit Balance
shall be equal to the sum of (a), (b) and (c) below, where

(a) is the WHX Pension Plan's Required Credit Balance as of the end of the prior
Plan Year; and

(b) is interest on the prior Plan Year's Required Credit Balance calculated at
the WHX Pension Plan's Funding Interest Rate; and

(c) is the amount, if any, required to be contributed to the WHX Pension Plan
pursuant to Section 4(a) of this Agreement as a result of purchases or
acquisitions of the Senior Notes during the Plan Year.

ATTACHMENT C

GUARANTEE

THIS GUARANTEE (this "Guarantee"), dated as of July 31, 2003, is made by
Ronald LaBow (together with his heirs, distributees, executors, administrators,
and legal and personal representatives, the "Guarantor"), in favor of and for
the benefit of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the "PBGC").

     Reference is made to the Agreement dated as of July 31, 2003 (as amended,
modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Settlement Agreement"), by and
among PBGC, WHX Corporation ("WHX"), Wheeling-Pittsburgh Corporation ("WPC"),
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation ("WPSC") and the United Steelworkers of
America, AFL-CIO-CLC ("USWA"). Capitalized terms used in this Guarantee but not
defined in this Guarantee shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the
Settlement Agreement.

     The Guarantor is the Chairman of the Board of WHX, holds (directly or
indirectly) a substantial equity interest in WHX and has other financial
interests in WHX and, therefore, will derive substantial direct and indirect
benefit from PBGC's execution, delivery and performance of the Settlement
Agreement. To induce PBGC to enter into the Settlement Agreement, the Guarantor
has agreed to guarantee the payment of any Notice Failure Damages, together with
any fees or expenses incurred in connection with the enforcement of this
Guarantee. It is a condition to the effectiveness of the Settlement Agreement
that the Guarantor execute and deliver this Guarantee. Accordingly, to induce
PBGC to enter into the Settlement Agreement, and for other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt, adequacy and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the Guarantor hereby
agrees as follows:

1.  GUARANTEE. (a) The Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably, as
a primary obligor and not merely as a surety, guarantees to PBGC and its
successors, indorsees, transferees and assigns, the prompt and complete payment
by WED( of any Notice Failure Damages; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that notwithstanding
anything in this Guarantee to the contrary, the maximum liability of the
Guarantor under this Section 1(a) shall in no event exceed Two Hundred Fifty
Thousand Dollars ($250,000).

         (b) The Guarantor further agrees to pay any and all reasonable fees and
expenses (including, without limitation, all reasonable fees and disbursements
of counsel) which may be paid or incurred by PBGC in enforcing any rights with
respect to, or collecting against, the Guarantor under this Guarantee (such fees
and expenses, together with any Notice Failure Damages, the "Guaranteed
Obligations").

         (c) The Guarantor agrees that the Guaranteed Obligations may exceed the
amount of the liability of the Guarantor hereunder without impairing this
Guarantee or affecting the rights and remedies of PBGC hereunder.

         (d) No payment or payments made by WHX, any other guarantor or any
other Person or received or collected by PBGC from WHX, any other guarantor or

any other Person by virtue of any action or proceeding or any set-off or
appropriation or application at any time or from time to time in reduction of or
in payment of any Guaranteed Obligations shall be deemed to modify, reduce,
release or otherwise affect the liability of the Guarantor hereunder, who shall,
notwithstanding any such payment or payments other than payments made by the
Guarantor in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations, remain liable for the
Guaranteed Obligations up to the maximum liability of the Guarantor hereunder
until such Guaranteed Obligations are paid in full.

         (e) This Guarantee constitutes a guarantee of payment when due and not
of collection, and the Guarantor waives any right to require that resort be had
by PBGC to any security held for payment of any Guaranteed Obligations.

     2. NO SUBROGATION. Notwithstanding any payment or payments made by the
Guarantor hereunder, the Guarantor shall not be entitled to be subrogated to any
of the rights of PBGC against WHX or any other guarantor or any collateral
security or guarantee or right of offset held by PBGC for the payment of any
Guaranteed Obligations, nor shall the Guarantor seek or be entitled to seek any
contribution or reimbursement from WHX or any other guarantor in respect of
payments made by the Guarantor hereunder. If any amount shall be paid to the
Guarantor on account of such subrogation rights at any time when all Guaranteed
Obligations shall not have been paid in full, such amount shall be held by the
Guarantor in trust for PBGC, segregated from other funds of the Guarantor, and
shall, forthwith upon receipt by the Guarantor, be turned over to PBGC in the
exact form received by the Guarantor (duly indorsed by the Guarantor to PBGC, if
required), to be applied against any Guaranteed Obligations.

     3. AMENDMENTS, ETC.; WAIVER OF RIGHTS. The Guarantor shall remain obligated
hereunder notwithstanding that, without any reservation of rights against the
Guarantor, and without notice to or further assent by the Guarantor, any demand
for payment of any Guaranteed Obligations made by PBGC may be rescinded by PBGC,
and any Guaranteed Obligations, or the liability of any other party upon or for
any part thereof, or any collateral security or guarantee therefor or right of
offset with respect thereto, may, from time to time, in whole or in part, be
renewed, extended, amended, modified, accelerated, compromised, waived,
surrendered or released by PBGC, and the Settlement Agreement may be amended,
modified or supplemented, in whole or in part, as PBGC may deem advisable from
time to time, and any collateral security, guarantee or right of offset at any
time held by PBGC for the payment of any Guaranteed Obligations may be sold,
exchanged, waived, surrendered or released. PBGC shall not have any obligation
to protect, secure, perfect or insure any lien at any time held by it as
security for any Guaranteed Obligations or for this Guarantee or any property
subject thereto. When making any demand hereunder against the Guarantor, PBGC
may, but shall be under no obligation to, make a similar demand on WHX or any
other guarantor, and any failure by the PBGC to make any such demand or to
collect any payments from WHX or any such other guarantor or any release of WHX
or such other guarantor shall not relieve the Guarantor of his obligations or
liabilities hereunder, and shall not impair or affect the rights and remedies,
express or implied, or as a matter of law, of PBGC against the Guarantor. For
the purposes hereof "demand" shall include the commencement and continuance of
any legal proceedings.

     4. GUARANTEE ABSOLUTE AND UNCONDITIONAL. The Guarantor waives any and all
notice of the creation or accrual of any Guaranteed Obligations and notice of or

2

proof of reliance by PBGC upon this Guarantee or acceptance of this Guarantee;
and all dealings between WHX and the Guarantor, on the one hand, and PBGC, on
the other hand, shall be conclusively presumed to have been had or consummated
in reliance upon this Guarantee. The Guarantor waives diligence, presentment,
protest, demand for payment and notice of default or nonpayment to or upon WHX
or the Guarantor with respect to any Guaranteed Obligations. The Guarantor
understands and agrees that this Guarantee shall be construed as a continuing,
absolute and unconditional guarantee of payment without regard to (a) the
validity, regularity or enforceability of the Settlement Agreement, any
Guaranteed Obligations or any collateral security therefor or guarantee or right
of offset with respect thereto at any time or from time to time held by PBGC,
(b) any defense, set-off or counterclaim (other than a defense of payment or
performance) which may at any time be available to or be asserted by WHX against
PBGC, or (c) any other circumstance whatsoever (with or without notice to or
knowledge of WHX or the Guarantor) which constitutes, or might be construed to
constitute, an equitable or legal discharge of WHX for any Guaranteed
Obligations, or of the Guarantor under this Guarantee, in bankruptcy or in any
other instance. When pursuing its rights and remedies hereunder against the
Guarantor, PBGC may, but shall be under no obligation to, pursue such rights and
remedies as it may have against WHX or any other Person or against any
collateral security or guarantee for any Guaranteed Obligations or any right of
offset with respect thereto, and any failure by PBGC to pursue such other rights
or remedies or to collect any payments from WHX or any such other Person or to
realize upon any such collateral security or guarantee or to exercise any such
right of offset, or any release of WHX or any such other Person or any such
collateral security, guarantee or right of offset, shall not relieve the
Guarantor of any liability hereunder, and shall not impair or affect the rights
and remedies, whether express, implied or available as a matter of law, of PBGC
against the Guarantor. This Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect and
be binding in accordance with and to the extent of its terms upon the Guarantor
and his heirs, distributees, executors, administrators and legal and personal
representatives, and shall inure to the benefit of PBGC and its successors,
indorsees, transferees and assigns.

     5. REINSTATEMENT. This Guarantee shall continue to be effective, or be
reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of
any of the Guaranteed Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be restored or
returned by PBGC upon the insolvency, bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or
reorganization of WHX or the Guarantor, or upon or as a result of the
appointment of a receiver, intervenor or conservator of, or trustee or similar
officer for, WHX or the Guarantor or any substantial part of its or his
property, or otherwise, all as though such payments had not been made.

     6. PAYMENTS. The Guarantor hereby guarantees that payments hereunder will
be paid to PBGC without set-off or counterclaim in U.S. Dollars by wire transfer
to any bank account designated by PBGC in writing.

     7. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. The Guarantor represents and warrants to
PBGC that: (a) this Guarantee has been duly and validly executed and delivered
by the Guarantor and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the
Guarantor, enforceable against the Guarantor in accordance with its terms; and
(b) neither the execution and delivery by the Guarantor of this Guarantee nor
compliance with the terms and provisions hereof by the Guarantor will require
any action by or in respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency or

3

official or contravene or constitute a default under, or require any consent
under, any provision of applicable law or regulation or of any agreement,
judgment, injunction, order, decree or other instrument binding upon the
Guarantor or result in the creation or imposition of any lien on any of his
assets.

     8. NOTICES. All notices, requests, demands and other communications
required or permitted under this Guarantee shall be given or made in accordance
with the provisions of Section 16(a) of the Settlement Agreement:

        (a) if to PBGC, at its address or transmission number for notices
provided in Section 16(a) of the Settlement Agreement; and

        (b) if to the Guarantor, at its address or transmission number for
notices set forth on the signature page hereto.

     9. SEVERABILITY. Any provision of this Guarantee which is prohibited or
unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective
to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the
remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any
jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any
other jurisdiction.

10. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Guarantee represents the agreement of the
Guarantor with respect to the subject matter hereof and there are no promises or
representations by PBGC relative to the subject matter hereof not reflected
herein.

     11. AMENDMENTS IN WRITING; NO WAIVER CUMULATIVE REMEDIES. (a) None of the
terms or provisions of this Guarantee may be waived, amended, supplemented or
otherwise modified except by a written instrument executed by the Guarantor and
PBGC; PROVIDED that any provision of this Guarantee may be waived by PBGC in a
letter or agreement executed by PBGC or by facsimile transmission from PBGC.

         (b) PBGC shall not by any act (except by a written instrument pursuant
to paragraph (a) hereof), delay, indulgence, omission or otherwise be deemed to
have waived any right or remedy hereunder or to have acquiesced in any breach of
any of the terms and conditions hereof No failure to exercise, nor any delay in
exercising, on the part of PBGC, any right, power or privilege hereunder shall
operate as a waiver thereof. No single or partial exercise of any right, power
or privilege hereunder shall preclude any other or further exercise thereof or
the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. A waiver by PBGC of any
right or remedy hereunder on any one occasion shall not be construed as a bar to
any right or remedy which PBGC would otherwise have on any future occasion.

         (c) The rights and remedies herein provided are cumulative, may be
exercised singly or concurrently and are not exclusive of any other rights or
remedies provided by law.

     12. SECTION HEADINGS. The section headings used in this Guarantee are for
convenience of reference only and are not to affect the construction hereof or
be taken into consideration in the interpretation hereof.

                                       4

13. ASSIGNMENT. The Guarantor may not assign this Guarantee or any of
Guarantor's rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of
PBGC.

     14. GOVERNING LAW. THIS GUARANTEE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND
INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT
REFERENCE TO THE CONFLICTS OR CHOICE OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF.

     15. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. THE GUARANTOR HEREBY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY
JURY OF ALL CLAIMS, DEFENSES, COUNTERCLAIMS AND SUITS OF ANY KIND ARISING FROM
OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTEE. THE GUARANTOR HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THIS IS A
WAIVER OF A LEGAL RIGHT AND THAT THE GUARANTOR MAKES THIS WAIVER VOLUNTARILY AND
KNOWINGLY AFTER CONSULTATION WITH, OR THE OPPORTUNITY TO CONSULT WITH, COUNSEL
OF HIS CHOICE. THE GUARANTOR HEREBY AGREES THAT ALL SUCH CLAIMS, DEFENSES,
COUNTERCLAIMS AND SUITS SHALL BE TRIED BEFORE A JUDGE OF A COURT OF COMPETENT
JURISDICTION, WITHOUT A JURY.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has caused this Guarantee to be duly
executed and delivered as of the day and year first above written.

Address for Notices:

Ronald LaBow
c/o WHX Corporation                              -------------------------------
110 East 59th Street                             Ronald LaBow
New York, NY 10022

5

ATTACHMENT D

AGREEMENT FOR APPOINTMENT OF
                         TRUSTEE AND TERMINATION OF PLAN

     This is an AGREEMENT between the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
("PBGC") and WHX Corporation.

                                    RECITALS:

     A. PBGC is a United States government agency established by Title IV of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, AS AMENDED, 29 U.S.C. ss.ss.
1301-1461 ("ERISA").

     B. WHX Corporation ("Company") is a corporation organized under the laws of
Delaware, with its principal place of business located in New York, New York.

     C. Effective December 1, 1997, Wheeling Pittsburgh Steel Company, a
subsidiary of the Company, established the WHX Pension Plan (the "Plan")
(formerly known as the Wheeling Pittsburgh Steel Company Bargaining Unit Pension
Plan). The Company assumed the Plan effective June 10, 1998.

     D. The Plan is an employee pension benefit plan to which 29 U.S.C. ss.
1321(a) applies and is not exempt under 29 U.S.C. ss. 1321(b). The Plan is
therefore covered by Title IV of ERISA.

     E. The Company is the administrator of the Plan within the meaning of 29
U.S.C. ss.ss. 1002(16) and 1301(a)(1).

     F. On [TERMINATION DATE], the Company was a contributing sponsor of the
Plan within the meaning of 29 U.S.C. ss. 1301(a)(13).

G. PBGC has issued to the Company a Notice of Determination under 29 U.S.C.
ss. 1342(a) that the Plan should be terminated under 29 U.S.C. ss. 1342(c).

     NOW THEREFORE, THE PARTIES AGREE:

     1. The Plan is terminated under 29 U.S.C. ss. 1342(c).

     2. The Plan termination date is [TERMINATION DATE], under 29 U.S.C. ss.
1348.

     3. PBGC is appointed trustee of the Plan under 29 U.S.C. ss. 1342(c).

     4. WHX Corporation and any other person having possession or control of
any records, assets or other property of the Plan shall convey and deliver to
PBGC such records, assets or property.

     5. PBGC will have, with respect to the Plan, all of the rights and powers
of a trustee specified in ERISA or otherwise granted by law. The persons signing
this Agreement are authorized to do so. The Agreement will take effect on the
date the last person signs below.

                                                           WHX CORPORATION

Dated:                                 By:
      ---------------                     --------------------------------------

                                          --------------------------------------
                                          PRINT NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON SIGNING
                                          AS PLAN ADMINISTRATOR

PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORPORATION

Dated:                                    By:
      ---------------                        -----------------------------------

ATTACHMENT E

AMENDED AND RESTATED
                          CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
                                       OF
                      WHEELING-PITTSBURGH STEEL CORPORATION

     Incorporated pursuant to a Certificate of Incorporation initially filed
              by W-P Steel Corporation with the Secretary of State
                 OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE ON NOVEMBER 20, 1990

Wheeling-Pittsburgh  Steel  Corporation,  a  Delaware  corporation,  hereby
certifies that this Amended and Restated  Certificate of Incorporation  has been
duly adopted in accordance  with the  provisions of Sections 228, 242 and 245 of
the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware:

     FIRST: The name of the corporation is:

                    Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation.

SECOND:  The address of its  registered  office in the State of Delaware is
1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington,  County of New Castle, 19801. The
name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.

     THIRD:  The  purpose of the  corporation  is to engage in any lawful act or
activity for which  corporations may be organized under the General  Corporation
Law of the State of Delaware.

     FOURTH:  The total number of shares of capital stock which the  corporation
shall have authority to issue is Three Thousand  (3,000) shares of Common Stock,
$0.01 par value per share, amounting in the aggregate to Thirty Dollars ($30.00)
of capital stock.

     FIFTH: The Corporation is to have perpetual existence.

     SIXTH:  The  following  provisions  are inserted for the  management of the
business and for the conduct of the affairs of the  corporation and for defining
and regulating the powers of the corporation and its directors and  stockholders
and are in  furtherance  and not in limitation of the powers  conferred upon the
corporation by statute:

     (a) The election of directors need not be by written ballot.

     (b) The board of directors shall have the power and authority:

         (1)  to adopt, amend or repeal by-laws of the corporation, subject only
              to such limitation, if any, as may be from time to time imposed by
              law or by the by-laws; and

-2-

(2)  to the full extent permitted or not prohibited by law, and without
              the consent of or other action by the  stockholders,  to authorize
              or create  mortgages,  pledges or other liens or encumbrances upon
              any or all of the assets,  real, personal or mixed, and franchises
              of the  corporation,  including  after-acquired  property,  and to
              exercise  all  of the  powers  of the  corporation  in  connection
              therewith; and

         (3)  subject to any provision of the by-laws,  to determine whether, to
              what  extent,  at what times and places and under what  conditions
              and regulations the accounts,  books and papers of the corporation
              (other than the stock  ledger),  or any of them,  shall be open to
              the inspection of the stockholders,  and no stockholder shall have
              any right to inspect any account, book or paper of the corporation
              except as conferred by statute or  authorized by the by-laws or by
              the board of directors.

     SEVENTH:  No director of the corporation  shall be personally liable to the
corporation  or to any of its  stockholders  for monetary  damages for breach of
fiduciary duty as a director, notwithstanding any provision of law imposing such
liability;  provided,  however, that to the extent required from time to time by
applicable  law, this Article Seventh shall not eliminate or limit the liability
of a director,  to the extent such liability is provided by applicable  law, (i)
for any  breach of the  director's  duty of loyalty  to the  corporation  or its
stockholders,  (ii) for acts or  omissions  not in good  faith or which  involve
intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of
Title 8 of the Delaware Code or (iv) for any transaction from which the director
derived an improper personal benefit.  No amendment to or repeal of this Article
Seventh shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged  liability
of any director  for or with  respect to any acts or omissions of such  director
occurring prior to the effective date of such amendment or repeal.

EIGHTH: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein:

     (a) The  Corporation  shall  not have  the  power  to  effect a  "permanent
shutdown  of any  plant,  department  or  substantial  portion  thereof"  of the
Corporation,  as such quoted phrase is used in the defined  benefit pension plan
(the "WHX Pension Plan") sponsored by WHX Corporation  (such  corporation or its
successor,  if any, "WHX") (a "Permanent  Shutdown"),  without (i) providing WHX
and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (such corporation or its successor,
if any, the "PBGC") with at least sixty (60) days advance written notice thereof
and  (ii)  obtaining  the  approval  of  such  Permanent  Shutdown  by  (A)  the
affirmative  vote of at  least a  majority  of the  entire  Board  of  Directors
(including  at least a  majority  of the  Independent  Director(s)  (as  defined
below)) of the Corporation and (B) until  Wheeling-Pittsburgh  Corporation (such
corporation  or its  successor,  if any,  "WPC") ceases to possess,  directly or
indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of management or policies
of the  Corporation  (whether  through  ownership of securities,  by contract or
otherwise),  the affirmative  vote of at least a majority of the entire Board of

-3-

Directors (including at least a majority of the Independent Director(s)) of WPC.
No  officer  of the  Corporation  shall  take any  action to effect a  Permanent
Shutdown,  unless all of the conditions set forth in the  immediately  preceding
sentence have been satisfied.

     (b) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at all times include at
least one independent director (each such person, an "Independent Director"), as
such term is used in Rule 303 of the  Rules of the New York  Stock  Exchange  as
such  Rule  is in  existence  on the  date of  filing  of  this  Certificate  of
Incorporation  or as such  Rule may be  subsequently  amended,  supplemented  or
restated from time to time.

     (c)  The  Board  of  Directors  of the  Corporation  (i)  shall  cause  the
Corporation  to adopt and  implement,  within  thirty (30) days of the filing of
this Certificate of Incorporation, reasonable procedures and policies reasonably
calculated to attain compliance with the obligations and responsibilities of the
Corporation  set  forth in the  Agreement,  dated  as of  _________,  among  the
Corporation,  WPC,  WHX,  the  PBGC  and the  United  Steelworkers  of  America,
AFL-CIO-CL and (ii) shall annually review such policies and procedures.

     (d) No portion of this Article Eighth may be modified or amended in any way
until the first to occur of (i) the tenth  anniversary  of the date of filing of
this  Certificate of  Incorporation,  or (ii) the termination of the WHX Pension
Plan in accordance with Title IV of the Employee  Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended, or (iii) the Corporation's receipt from the PBGC of written
authorization  of the proposed  modification or amendment;  provided,  that this
Article Eighth shall be inapplicable upon the occurrence of either of the events
specified in clauses (i) or (ii) or upon the Corporation's receipt from the PBGC
of written approval of the inapplicability of this Article Eighth.

Signed this ___ day of _______, 2003.

By:
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Name:
                                             Title:

ATTACHMENT F

SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED
                          CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
                                       OF
                         WHEELING-PITTSBURGH CORPORATION

Incorporated pursuant to a Certificate of Incorporation initially filed
      with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on June 27, 1920
                   UNDER THE NAME WHEELING STEEL CORPORATION

Wheeling-Pittsburgh  Corporation,  a  Delaware  corporation,  hereby
certifies that this Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation has
been duly adopted in  accordance  with the  provisions of Sections 228, 242, and
245 of the General  Corporation  Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL"),  and
notice  thereof has been given in accordance  with the provisions of Section 228
of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware:

            FIRST:   The  name  of  the   Corporation   is   Wheeling-Pittsburgh
Corporation.

            SECOND:  The address of the Corporation's  registered offices in the
State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street,  Corporation  Trust Center, in the city
of  Wilmington,  County  of New  Castle,  19801.  The  name and  address  of the
Corporation's registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.

            THIRD:  The nature of the  business  and purposes to be conducted or
promoted by the Corporation are as follows:

            To engage in any manufacturing,  construction,  mercantile, selling,
            management, service or other business, operation or activity, and to
            promote  any  activity  which  may  be  lawfully  carried  on  by  a
            corporation  organized under the DGCL, whether or not related to the
            foregoing,  and to have and exercise all of the powers  conferred by
            the laws of the State of Delaware upon corporations  incorporated or
            organized under the DGCL.

            FOURTH: The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the
Corporation  shall have  authority to issue is  100,000,000  shares,  consisting
solely of:

            80,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share ("Common
Stock"); and

            20,000,000 shares of  preferred  stock,  par value  $.001 per share
("Preferred Stock").

            The Corporation  shall not issue any nonvoting equity  securities to
the extent prohibited by section 1123 of title 11 of the United States Code (the
"Bankruptcy  Code")  as  in  effect  on  the  effective  date  of  the  Plan  of
Reorganization  approved in  connection  with Case Nos.  00-43394  to  00-43402,
jointly administered in the United States Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of

Ohio (the "PLAN of REORGANIZATION");  provided, however, that this paragraph (a)
will have no further force and effect beyond that required under section 1123 of
the Bankruptcy  Code,  (b) will have such force and effect,  if any, only for so
long as such section of the  Bankruptcy  Code is in effect and applicable to the
Corporation,  and (c) in all events may be amended or  eliminated  in accordance
with such applicable law as from time to time may be in effect.

            The   following  is  a  statement   of  the  powers,   designations,
preferences, privileges, and relative rights in respect of each class of capital
stock of the Corporation.

            A. COMMON STOCK.

            1.  GENERAL.  The voting,  dividend  and  liquidation  rights of the
holders  of Common  Stock are  subject  to and  qualified  by the  rights of the
holders of Preferred Stock.

            2. VOTING.  Except as provided  herein,  the holders of Common Stock
are  entitled to one vote for each share held at all  meetings  of  stockholders
(and written actions in lieu of meetings). There shall be no cumulative voting.

            3. DIVIDENDS. Dividends may be declared and paid on the Common Stock
from funds lawfully  available  therefor if, as and when determined by the Board
of  Directors  and  subject  to any  preferential  dividend  rights  of any then
outstanding shares of Preferred Stock.

            4.   LIQUIDATION.   Upon  the  dissolution  or  liquidation  of  the
Corporation,  whether voluntary or involuntary,  holders of Common Stock will be
entitled to receive all assets of the Corporation  available for distribution to
its  stockholders,  subject to any  preferential  rights of any then outstanding
shares of Preferred Stock.

            B. PREFERRED STOCK.

            Shares of Preferred  Stock may be issued from time to time in one or
more series, each of such series to have such powers, designations, preferences,
and relative, participating, optional, or other special rights, if any, and such
qualifications and restrictions,  if any, of such preferences and rights, as are
stated or expressed in the  resolution or  resolutions of the Board of Directors
providing  for such series of  Preferred  Stock.  Different  series of Preferred
Stock shall not be construed to constitute  different  classes of shares for the
purposes of voting by classes unless expressly so provided in such resolution or
resolutions.

            Authority is hereby  granted to the Board of Directors  from time to
time to issue the Preferred Stock in one or more series,  and in connection with
the creation of any such series,  by resolution or  resolutions to determine and
fix  the  powers,  designations,   preferences,  and  relative,   participating,
optional,   or  other  special  rights,  if  any,  and  the  qualifications  and
restrictions,  if  any,  of  such  preferences  and  rights,  including  without
limitation  dividend  rights,   conversion  rights,   voting  rights  (if  any),
redemption privileges, and liquidation preferences,  of such series of Preferred

2

Stock (which need not be uniform among series), all to the fullest extent now or
hereafter permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware. Without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, the resolution or resolutions providing for the
creation  or  issuance of any series of  Preferred  Stock may provide  that such
series shall be superior to, rank equally  with,  or be junior to the  Preferred
Stock of any other  series,  all to the  fullest  extent  permitted  by law.  No
resolution,  vote,  or  consent  of the  holders  of the  capital  stock  of the
Corporation shall be required in connection with the creation or issuance of any
shares of any series of Preferred  Stock  authorized by and  complying  with the
conditions of this Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the
right to any such  resolution,  vote, or consent being  expressly  waived by all
present  and  future   holders  of  the  capital   stock  of  the   Corporation.
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  no class or series of Preferred  Stock shall be
authorized  for issuance in connection  with the adoption by the  Corporation of
what is  commonly  known as a "poison  pill"  plan or any  similar  shareholders
rights plan unless such plan is first approved (a) by at least a majority of all
of the members of the Board of Directors  and by the holders of the voting stock
of the Corporation or (b) by at least two-thirds  (2/3rds) of all of the members
of the Board of Directors.

            Any  resolution  or  resolutions  adopted by the Board of  Directors
pursuant to the  authority  vested in them by this  Article  Fourth shall be set
forth in a certificate of  designation  along with the number of shares of stock
of such series as to which the  resolution or  resolutions  shall apply and such
certificate shall be executed, acknowledged,  filed, recorded, arid shall become
effective, in accordance with ss.103 of the General Corporation Law of the State
of Delaware.  Unless  otherwise  provided in any such resolution or resolutions,
the  number of shares of stock of any such  series to which such  resolution  or
resolutions apply may be increased (but not above the total number of authorized
shares of the class) or  decreased  (but not below the number of shares  thereof
then outstanding) by a certificate  likewise executed,  acknowledged,  filed and
recorded,  setting  forth a  statement  that a  specified  increase  or decrease
therein has been authorized and directed by a resolution or resolutions likewise
adopted by the Board of  Directors.  In case the number of such shares  shall be
decreased, the number of shares so specified in the certificate shall resume the
status  which  they  had  prior  to the  adoption  of the  first  resolution  or
resolutions. When no shares of any such class or series are outstanding,  either
because  none were issued or because  none  remain  outstanding,  a  certificate
setting forth a resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors that
none of the authorized shares of such class or series are outstanding,  and that
none will be issued subject to the certificate of designations  previously filed
with respect to such class or series, may be executed,  acknowledged,  filed and
recorded in the same manner as previously described and it shall have the effect
of eliminating  from the certificate of  incorporation  all matters set forth in
the certificate of  designations  with respect to such class or series of stock.
If no  shares  of any such  class  or  series  established  by a  resolution  or
resolutions  adopted  by the Board of  Directors  have been  issued,  the voting
powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other
rights, if any, with the  qualifications,  limitations or restrictions  thereof,
may be amended by a resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors.
In the event of any such  amendment,  a  certificate  which (i)  states  that no
shares of such class or series have been issued, (ii) sets forth the copy of the

amending resolution or resolutions and (iii) if the designation of such class or
series  is  being  changed,  indicates  the  original  designation  and  the new
designation, shall be executed, acknowledged,  filed, recorded, and shall become
effective, in accordance with ss.103 of the General Corporation Law of the State
of Delaware.

            FIFTH: This provision is inserted for the management of the business
and for the  conduct of the  affairs of the  Corporation  and for  defining  and
regulating the powers of the Corporation and its directors and is in furtherance
and not in limitation of the powers  conferred upon the  Corporation by statute.
The Board of Directors shall have the power and authority:  (i) to adopt,  amend
or repeal By-Laws of the Corporation,  subject only to such limitations, if any,
as may be from time to time imposed by other provisions of this Certificate,  by
law, or by the By-Laws;  and (ii) to the full extent permitted or not prohibited
by law,  and  without  the consent of or other  action by the  stockholders,  to
authorize or create  mortgages,  pledges or other liens or encumbrances upon any
or  all  of  the  assets,  real,  personal  or  mixed,  and  franchises  of  the
Corporation,  including  after-acquired  property,  and to  exercise  all of the
powers of the Corporation in connection therewith.

            SIXTH: No director of the Corporation  shall be personally liable to
the Corporation or to any of its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of
fiduciary duty as a director, notwithstanding any provision of law imposing such
liability;  PROVIDED,  HOWEVER, that to the extent required from time to time by
applicable law, this Article Sixth shall not eliminate or limit the liability of
a director,  to the extent such liability is provided by applicable law, (i) for
any  breach  of  the  director's  duty  of  loyalty  to the  corporation  or its
stockholders,  (ii) for acts or  omissions  not in good  faith or which  involve
intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of
Title 8 of the  Delaware  Code,  or (iv) for any  transactions  from  which  the
director derived an improper personal benefit. No amendment to or repeal of this
Article  Sixth  shall  apply to or have any effect on the  liability  or alleged
liability  of any  director for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such
director occurring prior to the effective date of such amendment or repeal.

            SEVENTH:  The Corporation  shall, to the fullest extent permitted by
Section 145 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware,  as amended from time to
time,  indemnify each person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a
party to any  threatened,  pending  or  completed  action,  suit or  proceeding,
whether civil, criminal,  administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact
that he is or was,  or has  agreed to  become,  a  director  or  officer  of the
Corporation, or is or was serving, or has agreed to serve, at the request of the
Corporation,  as a  director,  officer or trustee  of, or in a similar  capacity
with, another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise
(including  any employee  benefit  plan),  or by reason of any action alleged to
have been taken or omitted in such  capacity,  against all  expenses  (including
attorneys' fees),  judgments,  fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and
reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection with such action, suit
or proceeding and any appeal therefrom.

4

Indemnification  may include  payment by the Corporation of expenses
in defending an action or proceeding in advance of the final disposition of such
action or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by the person indemnified to
repay  such  payment  if it is  ultimately  determined  that such  person is not
entitled to indemnification under this Article Seventh, which undertaking may be
accepted without  reference to the financial ability of such person to make such
repayment.

            The  Corporation   shall  not  indemnify  any  such  person  seeking
indemnification  in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof)  initiated by
such  person  unless  the  initiation  thereof  was  approved  by the  Board  of
Directors.

            The  indemnification  rights  provided in this  Article  Seventh (i)
shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those indemnified may
be entitled under any law,  agreement or vote of stockholders  or  disinterested
directors  or  otherwise,  and (ii)  shall  inure to the  benefit  of the heirs,
executors and administrators of such persons. The Corporation may, to the extent
authorized  from time to time by its Board of Directors,  grant  indemnification
rights to other  employees or agents of the Corporation or other persons serving
the  Corporation  and such rights may be equivalent to, or greater or less than,
those set forth in this Article Seventh.

            EIGHTH: Whenever a compromise or arrangement is proposed between the
Corporation  and  its  creditors  or  any  class  of  them  and/or  between  the
Corporation  and its  stockholders  or any class of them, any court of equitable
jurisdiction  within the State of Delaware may, on the  application in a summary
way of the  Corporation  or of any  creditor  or  stockholder  thereof or on the
application of any receiver or receivers appointed for the Corporation under the
provisions  of ss.291 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code or on the  application  of
trustees in  dissolution  or of any  receiver  or  receivers  appointed  for the
Corporation  under the  provisions  of ss.279 of Title 8 of the  Delaware  Code,
order  a  meeting  of  the  creditors  or  class  of  creditors,  and/or  of the
stockholders or class of stockholders of the Corporation, as the case may be, to
be  summoned  in such a manner as the said court  directs.  If a majority of the
number representing three-fourths (3/4ths) in value of the creditors or class of
creditors,   and/or  of  the  stockholders  or  class  of  stockholders  of  the
Corporation,  as the case may be, agree to any compromise or arrangement  and to
any  reorganization  of the  Corporation as a consequence of such  compromise or
arrangement, the compromise or arrangement and the said reorganization shall, if
sanctioned by the court to which the said  application has been made, be binding
on all  creditors  or  class  of  creditors,  and/or  stockholders  or  class of
stockholders  of  the  Corporation,  as  the  case  may  be,  and  also  on  the
Corporation.

            NINTH:  The Board of Directors,  when  considering a tender offer or
merger or  acquisition  proposal,  shall take into  account  potential  economic
benefits to  stockholders,  including  without  limitation,  a comparison of the
proposed  consideration  to be received by  stockholders in relation to the then
current market price of the  Corporation's  capital stock, the estimated current
value of the Corporation in a freely negotiated  transaction,  and the estimated
future  value of the  Corporation  as an  independent  entity  and may take into
account  such  other  factors as the Board of  Directors  deems  appropriate  in
exercising its fiduciary duties.

            TENTH: Any action required or permitted to be taken by the
stockholders of the Corporation may be taken only at a duly called annual or
special meeting of the stockholders, and not by written consent in lieu of such

5

a meeting, and special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the
Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, or a majority of the Board of
Directors.

ELEVENTH:  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein
(including, without limitation, Article THIRD hereof):

            (a) The  Corporation  shall not have the power to  approve a
"permanent shutdown of any plant,  department or substantial portion thereof' of
Wheeling - Pittsburgh Steel Corporation  ("WPSC"), as such quoted phrase is used
in the defined  benefit  pension plan (the "WHX Pension Plan")  sponsored by WHX
Corporation  (such  corporation  or its  successor,  if  any,  "WHX")  (a  "WPSC
Permanent Shutdown"), without (1) providing WHX and the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation  (such  corporation  or its  successor,  if any, the "PBGC") with at
least sixty (60) days advance  written  notice  thereof and (ii)  obtaining  the
approval of such WPSC Permanent  Shutdown by the affirmative  vote of at least a
majority of the entire Board of Directors  (including at least a majority of the
Independent  Director(s) (as defined below)) of the  Corporation.  No officer of
the  Corporation  shall  take any  action to effect a WPSC  Permanent  Shutdown,
unless all of the conditions  set forth in the  immediately  preceding  sentence
have been satisfied.

            (b) The Board of  Directors  of the  Corporation  shall at all times
include at least one  independent  director (each such person,  an  "Independent
Director"),  as such term is used in Rule 303 of the Rules of the New York Stock
Exchange as such Rule is in existence on the date of filing of this  Certificate
of  Incorporation or as such Rule may be subsequently  amended,  supplemented or
restated from time to time.

            (c) The Board of  Directors of the  Corporation  (i) shall cause the
Corporation to adopt and implement, within sixty (60) days of the filing of this
Certificate of  Incorporation,  reasonable  procedures  and policies  reasonably
calculated to attain compliance with the obligations and responsibilities of the
Corporation  and,  for  so  long  as  the  Corporation  possesses,  directly  or
indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of management or policies
of WPSC, WPSC set forth in the Agreement,  dated as of July 31, 2003,  among the
Corporation,  WPSC,  WHX,  the  PBGC and the  United  Steelworkers  of  America,
AFL-CIO-CLC and (ii) shall annually review such policies and procedures.

            (d) No portion of this  Article  Eleventh may be modified or amended
in any way until the first to occur of (i) the tenth  anniversary of the date of
filing of this Certificate of Incorporation,  or (ii) the termination of the WHX
Pension  Plan in  accordance  with Title IV of the  Employee  Retirement  Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended,  or (iii) the  Corporation's  receipt from the
PBGC  of  written  authorization  of the  proposed  modification  or  amendment;

                                        6

provided,  that this Article  Eleventh shall be  inapplicable  upon the first to
occur of (A) the occurrence of either of the events  specified in clauses (i) or
(ii), or (B) the Corporation's  receipt from the PBGC of written approval of the
inapplicability  of this Article Eleventh,  or (C) the Corporation's  ceasing to
possess,  directly or indirectly,  the power to direct or cause the direction of
management  or policies of WPSC (whether  through  ownership of  securities,  by
contract or otherwise).

Executed on _______________

WHEELING-PITTSBURGH CORPORATION

By:
                                              ----------------------------------
                                              Name:
                                              Title:

7

ATTACHMENT G

ATTACHMENT G
                             INFORMATION AND REPORTS

1.   WHX

     WHX shall provide the information specified below to PBGC, in addition to
any reporting obligations that it may have under ERISA or the Internal Revenue
Code:

     (a) ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. As soon as available and in any event
within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of the annual audit
report for such year for WHX and its subsidiaries, including therein
consolidated and consolidating balance sheets of WHX and its subsidiaries as of
the end of such fiscal year (which consolidating balance sheet may be unaudited)
and a consolidated statement of income and a consolidated statement of cash
flows of WHX and its subsidiaries for such fiscal year, in each case accompanied
by an opinion of independent public accountants of recognized standing
acceptable to PBGC, together with a certificate of the Chief Financial Officer
of WHX stating that no breach of this Agreement has occurred and is continuing
or, if a breach of this Agreement has occurred and is continuing, a statement as
to the nature thereof and the action that WHX has taken and proposes to take
with respect thereto.

     (b) QUARTERLY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. As soon as available and in any event
within 45 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal
year, consolidated and consolidating balance sheets of WHX and its subsidiaries
as of the end of such quarter and a consolidated statement of income and a
consolidated statement of cash flows of WHX and its subsidiaries for the period
commencing at the end of the previous fiscal quarter and ending with the end of
such fiscal quarter and a consolidated statement of income and a consolidated
and consolidating statement of cash flows of WHX and its subsidiaries for the
period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end
of such quarter, setting forth in each case in comparative form the
corresponding figures for the corresponding date or period of the preceding
fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and duly certified (subject to normal
year-end audit adjustments) by the Chief Financial Officer of WHX as having been
prepared in accordance with GAAP, together with a certificate of said officer
stating that no breach of this Agreement has occurred and is continuing or, if a
breach of this Agreement has occurred and is continuing, a statement as to the
nature thereof and the action that WHX has taken and proposes to take with
respect thereto.

     (c) SECURITIES REPORTS. Promptly after the sending or filing thereof,
copies of all proxy statements, financial statements and reports that WHX sends
to its stockholders, and copies of all regular, periodic and special reports,
and all registration statements, that WHX files with the Securities and Exchange
Commission or any governmental authority that may be substituted therefor, or
with any national securities exchange or, unless PBGC requests otherwise, if any
mailing or filing is available electronically on Edgar, any website maintained
by WHX or any other electronic source generally accessible, in lieu of providing
physical copies, a notice of such mailing or filing may be given to PBGC.

(d) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE AND PBGC NOTICES. Copies to PBGC's Corporate
Finance and Negotiations Department of any notices otherwise required to be
filed with the Internal Revenue Service or PBGC concerning the WHX Pension Plan
at the time the filing is made.

     (e) MERGER OR TRANSFER OF LIABILITIES OR ASSETS OF THE WHX PENSION PLAN.
Written notice 30 days prior to any merger of the WHX Pension Plan or any
transfer of liabilities or assets described in the Internal Revenue Code, under
Internal Revenue Code section 414(1), to or from the WHX Pension Plan (other
than DE MINIMIS mergers or transfers); PROVIDED that any such merger or transfer
shall be subject to Section 12 of this Agreement.

     (f) CHANGES TO ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS OR METHODS. Written notice 30 days
prior to any change in any of the WHX Pension Plan's actuarial assumptions or
methods for the purpose of the minimum funding standard account (other than
changes required by law), which changes shall be subject to PBGC's consent,
which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.

     (g) ACTUARIAL VALUATION REPORTS. The WHX Pension Plan's Actuarial Valuation
Report no later than the last day of the plan year.

     (h) FORM 5500. The WHX Pension Plan's Form 5500 when filed.

     (i) STATEMENT REGARDING REQUIRED CREDIT BALANCE. By the last day of each
plan year, a statement certified by the WHX Pension Plan's enrolled actuary,
specifying the amount of contributions necessary to maintain the WHX Pension
Plan's credit balance required pursuant to Section 4(a) of this Agreement (the
"Required Credit Balance") and details of the calculation of such Required
Credit Balance.

     (j) CERTIFICATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS. By the last day of each plan year, a
certification from WHX that contributions at least equal to the amount necessary
to maintain the WHX Pension Plan's Required Credit Balance have been made to the
WHX Pension Plan.

     (k) NOTICE OF MISSED CONTRIBUTIONS. Written notice within 7 days of any
missed quarterly contribution, minimum funding contribution required under
Internal Revenue Code Section 412, or any other contribution required to be made
to the WHX Pension Plan pursuant to this Agreement.

     (1) STATEMENT OF AMOUNT OF CONTRIBUTIONS. A written statement indicating
amount of each contribution to the WHX Pension Plan pursuant to Section 4(a) of
this Agreement.

     (m) OTHER INFORMATION. Such additional financial and other information as
PBGC may from time to time reasonably request.

-2-

2.   WPC

     WPC shall provide the information specified below to PBGC, in addition to
any reporting obligations that it may have under ERISA or the Internal Revenue
Code:

     (a)  Financial Statements.

          (i) As soon as available, but in any event within 90 days after the
end of each fiscal year of WPC, a copy of the audited consolidated and
consolidating balance sheet of WPC and its consolidated subsidiaries (including
WPSC) as at the end of such year and the related audited consolidated and
consolidating statements of income and of cash flows for such year, setting
forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous year, in the
case of the consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statements of income and
cash flows, reported on without a "going concern" or like qualification or
exception, or any qualification in any other respect (except for qualifications
relating to changes in accounting principles with which such accountants
concur), by PricewaterhouseCoopers or other independent certified public
accountants of nationally recognized standing;

          (ii) As soon as available, but in any event not later than 45 days
after the end of each of the first three quarterly periods of each fiscal year
of WPC, the unaudited consolidated and consolidating balance sheet of WPC and
its consolidated subsidiaries (including WPSC) as at the end of such quarter and
the related unaudited consolidated and consolidating statements of income and of
cash flows for such quarter and the portion of the fiscal year through the end
of such quarter, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for
the previous year, certified by a Responsible Officer (as defined in the New
Senior Credit Facility) as being fairly stated in all material respects (subject
to normal year-end audit adjustments); and

          (iii) As soon as available, but in any event not later than 30 days
after the end of each month occurring during each fiscal year of WPC (other than
the third, sixth, ninth and twelfth such month), the unaudited consolidated and
consolidating balance sheets of WPC and its subsidiaries (including WPSC) as at
the end of such month and the related unaudited consolidated and consolidating
statements of income and of cash flows for such month and the portion of the
fiscal year through the end of such month, setting forth in each case in
comparative form the figures for the previous year, certified by a Responsible
Officer as being fairly stated in all material respects (subject to normal
year-end audit adjustments).

All such financial statements referred to in paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii)
shall be complete and correct in all material respects and shall be prepared in
reasonable detail and in accordance with GAAP applied (except as approved by
such accountants or officer, as the case may be, and disclosed in reasonable
detail therein) consistently throughout the periods reflected therein and with
prior periods.

     (b)  CERTIFICATES; OTHER INFORMATION.

          (i) Concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements
referred to in Section 2(a), a certificate of the independent certified public
accountants reporting on such financial statements stating that in making the

-3-

examination necessary therefor such accountants obtained no knowledge that a
breach of this Agreement by WPC or WPSC has occurred and is continuing, except
as specified in such certificate;

          (ii) Not later than 45 days after the end of each fiscal year of WPC
and concurrently with the delivery of any financial statements pursuant to
Section 2(a)(ii), a certificate of the Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer of WPC stating that, to the best of each such officer's
knowledge, each of WPC and WPSC during such period has observed or performed all
of its covenants and other agreements, and satisfied in all material respects
every condition contained in this Agreement to be observed, performed or
satisfied by it, and that such officer has obtained no knowledge that a breach
of this Agreement by WPC or WPSC has occurred and is continuing, except as
specified in such certificate;

     (c) LITIGATION. Promptly after the commencement thereof, notice of (i) any
action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding before any court or
governmental department, commission, board, bureau, agency or instrumentality,
domestic or foreign, affecting the WPC or any of its subsidiaries (including
WPSC) (A) in which the amount involved is $1,000,000 or more and not covered by
any insurance (and with respect to which there is no dispute as to insurance
coverage) or (B) in which injunctive or similar relief is sought and (ii) any
material adverse development with respect to any such action, suit,
investigation, litigation or proceeding.

     (d) SECURITIES REPORTS. Promptly after the sending or filing thereof,
copies of all proxy statements, financial statements and reports that WPC sends
to its stockholders, and copies of all regular, periodic and special reports,
and all registration statements, that WPC or any of its subsidiaries (including
WPSC) files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any governmental
authority that may be substituted therefor, or with any national securities
exchange or, unless PBGC requests otherwise, if any mailing or filing is
available electronically on Edgar, any website maintained by WPC or any other
electronic source generally accessible, in lieu of providing physical copies, a
notice of such mailing or filing may be given to PBGC.

     (e) CREDITOR REPORTS. Promptly after the furnishing thereof, copies of any
financial statements, reports, certificates or other information furnished to or
by any holder of indebtedness or debt securities of the WPC or of any of its
subsidiaries (including WPSC) pursuant to the terms of any indenture, loan or
credit or similar agreement (including RBC and the ESLGB). Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, WPC and WPSC shall provide PBGC, simultaneously
with the furnishing thereof, all certificates, reports and other information
required to be delivered by WPC and/or WPSC under Sections 5.2 and 5.3 of the
New Senior Credit Facility, as in effect on the date hereof.

     (f) DEFAULT NOTICE. As soon as possible and in any event within two days
after the occurrence of any Default and/or Event of Default under the New Senior
Credit Facility or any other indenture, loan, credit or similar agreement (in
each case, as such Willis are defined therein), a statement of the Chief
Financial Officer of WPC setting forth the details of such default or event of
default and the actions that WPC or any of its subsidiaries (including WPSC) has
taken and proposes to take with respect thereto.

-4

(g) WARN NOTICES. Promptly after the furnishing thereof, copies of any
notices provided by WPC or any of its subsidiaries (including WPSC) under the
Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. ss.ss. 2101-2109
(the "WARN Act"), and any similar state or local law.

     (h) OTHER INFORMATION. Such other information respecting the business,
condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance or properties of WPC
or any of its subsidiaries (including WPSC) as PBGC may from time to time
reasonably request.

-5-

Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
1200 K Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20005-4026
(202) 326-4010

Office of the Executive Director

WHX Corporation
Attention: Neale Trangucci
Assistant Treasurer
110 East 59th Street
New York, New York 10022

                  NOTICE OF WITHDRAWAL OF NOTICE OF DETERMINATION

     The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation hereby withdraws its March 6, 2003,
Notice of Determination that the WHX Pension Plan should be terminated under the
provisions of 29 U.S.C. ss. 1342.

PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORPORATION

Dated:   Aug 14, 2003                          /s/ Steven A. Kandarian
      -----------------                        ------------------------------------
                                               STEVEN A. KANDARIAN
                                               Executive Director

cc:  James Bradley, President, Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation
     Daniel Murphy, President, Handy   Harman
     Daniel Keaton, Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation
     John Cornell, Esquire
     Joseph O'Leary, Esquire
     Leo W. Gerard, President, United Steelworkers of America
     James Hoffa, President, International Brotherhood of Teamsters
     Boyd Young, President, Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical and Energy
         Workers International Union
     R. Thomas Buffenbarger, International Association of Machinists
         and Aerospace Workers
     Edward L. Fire, President, International Union of Electronic, Electrical,
         Salaried, Machine and Furniture Workers-Communications Workers of America

TERM SHEET

The following are the key terms to be embodied in a final agreement (the
"Agreement") among the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC"), WHX
Corporation ("WHX"), Wheeling-Pittsburgh Corporation ("WPC"),
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation ("WPSC") and the United Steelworkers of
America ("USWA"). PBGC, WHX and the USWA are parties to that certain litigation
known as PBGC v. WHX Corporation, Civil Action No. 03-CV-1553, now pending in
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (the
"Termination Litigation"), which involves a defined benefit pension plan
sponsored by WHX which covers employees of WPSC, including employees whose
exclusive collective bargaining agent is USWA. WPC, WPSC and other affiliated
companies are Debtors in bankruptcy proceedings now pending in the United States
Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Ohio (the "Bankruptcy Court")
(Case Nos. 00-43394 through 00-43402) (the "Bankruptcy Proceedings").

     In consideration of the obligations of PBGC, WHX, WPC, WPSC, and USWA as
described herein, the parties agree as follows:

1.   The WHX Pension Plan (the "Plan") is and has been since its inception a
     single-employer plan, and WHX shall and hereby does forever abandon its
     contention that the Plan as it is currently constituted is a multiemployer
     plan, and shall not contend that the Plan is a multiemployer plan based on
     changed circumstances unless an advance advisory opinion is issued by the
     Department of Labor, based on such changed circumstances, that the Plan is
     a multiemployer plan. WHX shall, no later than July 31, 2003 (or if later
     30 days after execution of final definitive documentation of this Term
     Sheet), file such amended annual returns (known as Form 5500) with the
     appropriate governmental agencies as are necessary to reflect its status as
     a single-employer plan, and will file an amended PBGC Form 1 for 2001 and
     2002 and will file an amended PBGC Form lES for 2003, with accompanying
     payment of any deficiency in premiums due to PBGC as a result of such
     filings, plus interest and penalties (penalties to be calculated at 1% per
     month).

2.   WHX, WPC, WPSC and USWA agree (and shall use best efforts to ensure that
     the Bankruptcy Court enters an order in the Bankruptcy Proceedings in form
     and substance reasonably satisfactory to PBGC stating) that (a) no
     Permanent Shutdown (as defined below) has occurred or will occur as a
     result of WPSC's Plan of Reorganization ("POR") and the transactions
     contemplated therein, (b) as a result of the transactions to be consummated
     on the effective date of the POR, WPSC and Ohio Coatings Corporation
     ("OCC") will no longer be participating employers under the Plan and
     therefore under the current terms of the Plan, Continuous Service (as
     defined in the Plan) will be broken as to employees of WPSC, any other
     Debtors, and OCC by the POR with respect to work performed for WPSC, any
     other Debtors, or OCC, and no Continuous Service will be credited for work
     performed for WPSC, any other Debtors, or OCC after the effective date of
     the POR, (c) as a result, no participants in the Plan employed by OCC,

WPSC, or any other Debtor will accrue benefit, eligibility, or vesting
     service beyond the effective date of the POR, nor shall any such
     participants become entitled to "Rule of 65" or "70/80" retirement benefits
     by reason of events occurring after the effective date of the POR, and (d)
     the Plan shall be amended to allow up to 650 WPSC USWA-represented
     employees the right to retire on a sole option pension (55/30, 62/15, 65/5,
     60/15) based on continuous service as of July 1, 2003, with a window
     pension benefit equal to $40 multiplied by the employee's years of service
     as of July 1, 2003, along with a Special Payment and Surviving Spouse's
     Benefit.

     For purposes of this Term Sheet, a "Permanent Shutdown" shall mean a
     "permanent shutdown of a plant, department or substantial portion thereof'
     as such phrase is used in the Plan.

3.   WHX will contribute one dollar to the Plan for each dollar used by WHX or
     its affiliates to purchase or otherwise acquire WHX 10.5% Senior Notes in
     the open market, each such contribution to the Plan to be made within three
     business days of the date on which any funds are used to purchase or
     acquire the WHX 10.5% Senior Notes. WHX will provide quarterly reports to
     PBGC on its market activity in this regard and payments to the Plan
     pursuant to this paragraph. Monies contributed to the Plan under this
     paragraph 3 shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any contributions
     required to be made to the Plan under Section 412 of the Internal Revenue
     Code, and WHX shall maintain any credit balance (equal to the additional
     contributions plus interest) resulting from these additional contributions
     in the manner set forth in Attachment A to this Term Sheet. The provisions
     of this paragraph 3 shall remain in effect until the first business day
     following the maturity date of the 10.5% Senior Notes, except that the
     credit balance, if any, shall continue to be maintained until the earlier
     of (a) the first business day after the second consecutive annual valuation
     date in which the Plan has sufficient assets so that there is no liability
     to PBGC under Section 4062 of ERISA in the event of Plan termination; or
     (b) the public unsecured debt of WHX is rated at least Baa3 by Moody's and
     at least BBB- by Standard and Poor's.

4.   (a) WHX, WPC, WPSC, and the USWA agree that:

         (i) After the effective date of the POR, WPSC shall provide to WHX,
     PBGC and the USWA at least 60 days advance written notice of (A) any
     Permanent Shutdown or (B) (except as otherwise expressly provided in
     paragraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(d)) any idling or cessation of operations of
     any WPSC plant, department or substantial portion thereof (any such idling
     or cessation described in this clause 4(a)(i)(B), an "Idling").

         (ii) In the event that (A) WPSC delivers a notice required pursuant to
     clause 4(a)(i)or 4(b)(ii) hereof, a Waiver Request or a Maintenance Report,
     (B) WPC and/or WPSC fails to comply with any of their respective
     obligations under this paragraph 4 or (C) an event of default under WPC's
     or WPSC's credit facilities has occurred and ESLGB (as defined below), RBC
     (as defined below) or any other lender (or any agent for any lender) under
     WPC's or WPSC's credit facilities commences any Enforcement Action, then
     WHX shall, upon request by PBGC, enter into an agreement with PBGC (in a
     form substantially identical to Attachment B) for the termination of the
     Plan pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA with a termination date proposed by
     PBGC (but in any event no later than one day prior to any Permanent
     Shutdown), without the commencement of litigation by PBGC. The USWA agrees
     not to contest in any forum such termination of the Plan and establishment
     of the termination date. The USWA further agrees not to bring or to support

-2-

(directly or indirectly) or to fund directly or indirectly any litigation
     against PBGC and/or WHX and/or the Plan in connection with the matters
     referred to in this Term Sheet, including, but not limited to, challenging
     the termination of the Plan or the termination date pursuant to this
     paragraph.

     For purposes of this Term Sheet, "Enforcement Action" means any of the
     following actions: to initiate or participate with others in any action to
     realize upon any of the assets or stock of WPC or WPSC, including but not
     limited to commencing any foreclosure proceeding or execution process or
     taking possession of or otherwise proceeding against such assets or stock.

         (iii) If (A) WPSC timely and fully fulfills its obligations under this
     paragraph 4 or the Plan is terminated effective at least one day prior to a
     Permanent Shutdown and (B) WHX fulfills its obligations under this Term
     Sheet, WHX shall be released from any additional liability to PBGC under
     Title IV of ERISA resulting from the Permanent Shutdown.

         (iv) In furtherance of the obligations set forth in paragraph 4(a)(i)
     above, commencing on or before the effective date of the POR:

               (A) WPSC shall include in its Certificate of Incorporation a
     provision, in form and substance acceptable to PBGC, that: (1) states that
     WPSC shall not have the power to effect a "permanent shutdown of a plant,
     department or substantial portion thereof" of WPSC as such quoted phrase is
     used in the Plan without (x) providing WHX and PBGC with at least 60 days
     advance written notice thereof and (y) obtaining the approval of such
     Permanent Shutdown by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the
     entire Board of Directors (including at least a majority of the independent
     director(s)) of WPSC and the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the
     entire Board of Directors (including at least a majority of the independent
     director(s)) of WPC; (2) provides that no officer of WPSC shall take any
     action to effect a Permanent Shutdown, unless all of the conditions set
     forth in clause 4(a)(iv)(A)(l ) above have been satisfied; (3) requires the
     Board of Directors of WPSC to at all times include at least one independent
     director (as such term is used in Rule 303 of the Rules of the New York
     Stock Exchange as in existence on the date hereof or as amended,
     supplemented or restated from time to time hereafter); (4) requires the
     Board of Directors to cause WPSC to adopt and implement, within 30 days of
     the filing of its Certificate of Incorporation, reasonable procedures and
     policies (and annually to review such procedures and policies) reasonably
     necessary to attain compliance with the obligations and responsibilities of
     WPSC under the definitive agreement described in this Term Sheet and (5)
     prohibits the amendment of such provision of the Certificate of
     Incorporation for a period of at least ten years, unless the Plan has been
     terminated in accordance with Title IV of ERISA.

               (B) WPC shall include in its Certificate of Incorporation a
     provision, in form and substance acceptable to PBGC, that: (1) states that
     WPC shall not have the power to effect a Permanent Shutdown without (x)
     providing WHX and PBGC with at least 60 days advance written notice thereof
     and (y) obtaining the approval of such Permanent Shutdown by the

-3-

affirmative vote of at least a majority of the entire Board of Directors
     (including at least a majority of the independent director(s)) of WPC; (2)
     provides that no officer of WPC shall take any action to effect a Permanent
     Shutdown, unless all of the conditions set forth in clause 4(a)(iv)(B)(l)
     above have been satisfied; (3) requires the Board of Directors of WPC to at
     all times include at least one independent director (as such term is used
     in Rule 303 of the Rules of the New York Stock Exchange as in existence on
     the date hereof or as amended, supplemented or restated from time to time
     hereafter); (4) requires the Board of Directors to cause WPC to adopt and
     implement, within 60 days of the filing of its Certificate of
     Incorporation, reasonable procedures and policies (and annually to review
     such procedures and policies) reasonably necessary to attain compliance
     with the obligations and responsibilities of WPC and WPSC under the
     definitive agreement described in this Term Sheet and (5) prohibits the
     amendment of such provision of the Certificate of Incorporation for a
     period of at least ten years, unless the Plan has been terminated in
     accordance with Title IV of ERISA.

     The requirement that WPSC obtain the approval of any Permanent Shutdown by
     the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the entire Board of
     Directors (including at least a majority of the independent director(s)) of
     WPC and the requirement that WPC's Certificate of Incorporation contain the
     provision described in Section 4(a)(iv)(B) above would no longer be
     applicable at such time as WPC ceases to "control" WPSC. For purposes of
     this Term Sheet, the term "control" means possession, directly or
     indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of management or
     policies (whether through ownership of securities by contract or
     otherwise).

(b) (i) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 4(b)(ii), WPSC shall not
     be required to provide the notice required by paragraph 4(a)(i)(B) with
     respect to an Idling that (A) is not and will not be a Permanent Shutdown
     and (B) WPSC reasonably expects to last 5 days or less (with operations
     resuming on or before the 6th day).

         (ii) In the event that, notwithstanding WPSC's reasonable expectation
     that such Idling will not last more than 5 days, operations have not
     resumed on or before the -th o day, then WPSC shall on such 6th day provide
     a notice of such Idling to PBGC, WHX and the USWA, which notice shall be in
     writing and shall (A) include (1) a reasonably detailed description of the
     Idling and the reason why such Idling was necessary, (2) the expected
     duration of the Idling, and (3) the number of employees affected by the
     Idling; and (B) include a certification by WPSC that (1) such Idling is not
     a Permanent Shutdown, (2) the circumstances and other factors that caused
     the Idling are not of the kind or nature that would lead to a Permanent
     Shutdown (including a reasonably detailed explanation of why that is the
     case), and (3) notwithstanding the fact that WPSC does not believe such
     Idling is or will result in a Permanent Shutdown, if such Idling results in
     the need for or likelihood of a Permanent Shutdown, WPSC shall be required
     to and shall give 60 days advance written notice prior to any such
     Permanent Shutdown in accordance with clause 4(a)(i)(A) above.

         (iii) In the event that a notice is required under clause 4(b)(ii), on
     the last day of the period set forth in the notice in response to clause
     4(b)(ii)(A)(2) (the expected duration of the Idling), WPSC shall provide

-4-

PBGC, WHX and USWA with a status report on the progress of such Idling
     (including any updated estimate of when operations will resume if
     operations have not already resumed) and WPSC shall provide a final notice
     to PBGC, WHX and USWA promptly when operations have resumed.

     (c) In the case of an Idling, WPSC may request (a "Waiver Request") that
     WHX, USWA and PBGC waive (which waiver shall not be unreasonably denied)
     the 60-day notice required under paragraph 4(a)(i)(B) if (i) such Idling is
     not and will not be a Permanent Shutdown, (ii) such Idling is directly
     caused by business circumstances that were not planned and not reasonably
     foreseeable by WPSC as of the time that the 60-day notice would have been
     required under this paragraph 4 ("Unforeseen Circumstances") and in the
     prudent management of its operations WPSC has determined such Idling to be
     necessary, (iii) WPSC reasonably believes that giving 60 days advance
     notice of such Idling would be impracticable, (iv) such Idling is not
     reasonably expected to last more than 10 days, and (v) operations will
     resume upon the earlier to occur of the resolution of the applicable
     Unforeseen Circumstances or 10 days.

     Any Waiver Request shall be in writing and shall:

         (A) provide PBGC, WHX and USWA with as much advance notice as
         practicable of the applicable Idling;

         (B) be provided as promptly as practicable after WPSC management has
         learned of the Unforeseen Circumstances or determined the applicable
         Idling to be necessary;

         (C) include a reasonably detailed description of (1) the Idling,
         including the Unforeseen Circumstances and the reason WPSC determined
         such Idling to be necessary, (2) the expected duration of the Idling
         (not to exceed 10 days), (3) the timeline of when WPSC management
         learned of the Unforeseen Circumstances and when WPSC management
         determined the Idling to be necessary, (4) the reason why WPSC believes
         60 days advance written notice would be impracticable to give, and (5)
         the number of employees affected by the Idling; and

         (D) include a certification by WPSC that (1) such Idling is not a
         Permanent Shutdown, (2) the Unforeseen Circumstances and other factors
         that caused the Idling are not of the kind or nature that would lead to
         a Permanent Shutdown (including a reasonably detailed explanation of
         why that is the case), and (3) notwithstanding the fact that WPSC does
         not believe such Idling is or will result in a Permanent Shutdown, if
         such Idling results in the need for or likelihood of a Permanent
         Shutdown, WPSC shall be required to and shall give 60 days advance
         written notice prior to any such Permanent Shutdown in accordance with
         clause 4(a)(i)(A) above.

     In the event that a Waiver Request is granted, WPSC shall provide PBGC, WHX
     and USWA with daily status reports on the progress of such Idling and an
     estimate of when operations will resume, commencing upon the 8th day
     following the commencement of such Idling and continuing until operations

                                      -5-

have resumed (and shall provide a final notice to PBGC, WHX and USWA
     promptly when operations have resumed).

     The parties agree that it shall not be unreasonable for WHX, USWA and/or
     PBGC to deny a Waiver Request if such Waiver Request is not given by WPSC
     as promptly as practicable after WPSC management has learned of the
     Unforeseen Circumstances or determined the applicable Idling to be
     necessary.

(d) (i) On or before the 5th day of each calendar quarter, WPSC shall
     provide PBGC, WHX and the USWA with a report (a "Maintenance Report") of
     maintenance, repairs, upgrades, enhancements, improvements and replacements
     ("Scheduled Maintenance Items") that WPSC has scheduled during the next 4
     calendar quarters. Each Maintenance Report shall contain for each Scheduled
     Maintenance Item (A) a reasonably detailed description of such Scheduled
     Maintenance Item, (B) the approximate timing, (C) the expected duration,
     (C) the equipment affected (or any new equipment being added or old
     equipment being removed), (D) the plant or location affected, and (B) the
     number of employees affected.

         (ii) Each Maintenance Report shall be accompanied by a certification by
     WPSC that (1) no Scheduled Maintenance Item is or will result in a
     Permanent Shutdown, (2) the Scheduled Maintenance Items and other factors
     that required the Scheduled Maintenance Items are not of the kind or nature
     that would lead to a Permanent Shutdown (including a reasonably detailed
     explanation of why that is the case), and (3) notwithstanding the fact that
     WPSC does not believe any Scheduled Maintenance Item is or will result in a
     Permanent Shutdown, if any such Scheduled Maintenance Item results in the
     need for or likelihood of a Permanent Shutdown, WPSC shall be required to
     and shall give 60 days advance written notice prior to any such Permanent
     Shutdown in accordance with clause 4(a)(i)(A) above.

         (iii) WPSC shall not be required to provide the notice required by
     Section 4(a)(i)(B) with respect to an Idling that (A) is not and will not
     be a Permanent Shutdown and (B) is solely and exclusively to perform a
     Scheduled Maintenance Item that was listed on a Maintenance Report
     satisfying the requirements of this paragraph 4(d) and that is performed in
     accordance with the description of such Scheduled Maintenance Item included
     in such Maintenance Report.

     (e) WPC agrees to cause WPSC to prepare and deliver all notices and reports
     required under this paragraph 4.

5.   WHX may refinance its existing WHX 10.5% Senior Notes (the "Notes"), which
     mature in April, 2005 at any time on an unsecured basis. If however, WHX
     obtains any financing on a secured basis (whether or not used to refinance
     the Notes) or provides or agrees to provide any security or collateral for
     the Notes or in connection with any extension of the maturity or
     modification or amendment of any of the terms or provisions of the Notes,
     then WHX shall simultaneously grant to PBGC, pursuant to documents
     reasonably satisfactory to PBGC, a pari passu, perfected security interest,
     up to $50 million (such amount to be calculated pursuant to Section
     4001(a)(18) of ERISA and PBGC regulations), in the same collateral as may
     secure such refinancing, extension or modification. WHX shall give PBGC
     reasonable advance written notice of any proposed secured financing or
     other grant of security or collateral (and in any event at least 30 days
     advance written notice). WHX reserves all rights to otherwise object to any
     claim that the PBGC may have. Any PBGC claim in excess of $50 million shall
     be an unsecured claim. All provisions of this paragraph 5 relating to a
     secured financing shall remain in effect only until the earlier of (a) the
     first business day after the second consecutive annual valuation date in
     which the Plan has sufficient assets so that there is no liability to PBGC
     under Section 4062 of ERISA in the event of Plan termination; or (b) the
     public unsecured debt of WHX is rated at least Baa3 by Moody's and at least
     BBB- by Standard and Poor's.

6.   WHX shall provide PBGC at least sixty days prior written notice before it
     (a) makes any tender offer, exchange offer, or other offer to pay,
     purchase, redeem, exchange, acquire, retire any of the Notes (before, at,
     or after the maturity (April 2005)) or (b) expends any funds or other
     resources or issues any securities or other obligations to pay, purchase,
     redeem, exchange, acquire, or retire any of the Notes or (c) extends the
     maturity of or otherwise amends or modifies any of the terms or provisions
     of the Notes (this notice provision shall not apply to unsecured
     refinancings of the Notes). In the event WHX fails to perform its
     obligation as set forth in the foregoing sentence, WHX shall be liable to
     PBGC (in addition to all other claims, rights and remedies available to
     PBGC) for any damages suffered or incurred by PBGC as a result of such
     failure to perform. Ronald LaBow, in his individual capacity, agrees to
     personally guarantee the payment of any such damages (together with any
     fees or expenses incurred in connection with enforcement of such guarantee)
     up to a maximum of $250,000 (plus the fees and expenses of enforcement of
     such guarantee) pursuant to documentation reasonably satisfactory to PBGC.
     Ronald LaBow's guarantee will terminate at such time as he is no longer the
     Chairman of the Board of WHX and the new Chairman of the Board of WHX shall
     have replaced Ronald LaBow's guarantee with his or her own personal
     guarantee (in substantially the same form as LaBow's guarantee and, in any
     event, reasonably acceptable to PBGC).

7.   PBGC agrees: (a) not to institute any supplemental or additional
     proceedings to terminate the Plan prior to the effective date of the POR;
     and (b) to conditionally withdraw its claims in the Bankruptcy Proceedings.
     The parties acknowledge and agree that after the effective date of the POR,
     upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in paragraphs 10 and 14 of
     this Term Sheet, (1) WPC and WPSC will not be part of the same Controlled
     Group as WHX, (2) neither WPC nor WPSC will be a "Participating Employer"
     under the Plan, and (3) neither WPC nor WPSC shall have any liability under
     Section 4007, 4062(b), 4062(c), 4063, 4064 or 4069 of ERISA with respect to
     the Plan. WHX acknowledges and agrees that (A) it shall not object to any
     PBGC claim on the grounds that all or a portion of the liability sought is
     not payable by WHX or members of its Controlled Group because it should or
     must be allocated to WPSC, to any of the other Debtors, or to OCC, or
     because the amount of liability of WHX and its Controlled Group must be
     determined under the provisions of Section 4063 or 4064 of ERISA and (B)
     upon termination of the WHX Pension Plan, the amount of liability of WHX
     and its Controlled Group for unfunded benefit liabilities under the WHX

Pension Plan, if any, shall be determined under the provisions of Section
     4062(b) of ERISA, subject to the provisions of this Term Sheet. Nothing in
     this Section 7 shall reduce, impair or otherwise limit any liability that
     WPC or WPSC would have to PBGC or WHX if WPC and/or WPSC breaches any of
     their obligations under this Term Sheet.

8.   If the conditions described in paragraph 10 and 14 are satisfied, PBGC,
     WHX, and USWA will sign a stipulation, or such other documents as may be
     required, to effect the dismissal of the Termination Litigation with
     prejudice.

9.   If the conditions described in paragraph 10 are not satisfied on or before
     June 30, 2003, or such date as may be extended by the Emergency Steel Loan
     Guaranty Board ("ESLGB"), then, within 10 days of such date, WHX and the
     USWA shall enter into a consent judgment terminating the Plan, appointing
     PBGC trustee of the Plan, and establishing March 7, 2003 as the termination
     date of the Plan, and WHX and the USWA shall promptly (and in any event
     within 10 days after requested to do so) execute, deliver and acknowledge
     or cause to be executed, delivered and acknowledged, such further documents
     and instruments and promptly (and in any event within 10 days after
     requested to do so) do such other acts as PBGC may reasonably request in
     order to fully effect the entry of such consent judgment. Such consent
     judgment shall also provide that WHX and its subsidiaries (other than the
     Debtors in the Bankruptcy Proceedings) shall maintain their right to
     contest the amount of their liability, if any, with respect to the Plan. In
     addition, upon the entry of such consent judgment (provided, that there has
     been no Permanent Shutdown prior to entry of such consent judgment), PBGC,
     WHX, WPSC and the USWA will acknowledge and agree that (a) the Plan has
     been terminated as of March 7, 2003 as a result of the entry of such
     consent judgment and (b) there has been no Permanent Shutdown prior to
     entry of such consent judgment, and (c) therefore WHX has no additional
     liability to PBGC with respect to the Plan under Title IV of ER1SA
     resulting from any Permanent Shutdown.

10.  The obligations of the parties (other than the obligations of the parties
     set forth in paragraphs 1 and 9 of this Term Sheet, which the parties
     expressly agree are binding obligations of the parties, effective
     immediately upon the execution of this Term Sheet) are expressly
     conditioned on the following: (a) all of the conditions set forth in the
     letter to the Royal Bank of Canada ("RBC") dated March 26, 2003 (other than
     the first condition) shall have been met by June 30, 2003, or such date as
     may be extended by the ESLGB, to the satisfaction of the ESLGB, including
     without limitation the conditions that the Court in the Bankruptcy
     Proceedings has issued a Confirmation Order that is not subject to appeal
     and the definitive USWA collective bargaining agreement has been ratified
     in accordance with USWA's internal governance procedures, including
     agreement to all terms set forth in this Term Sheet; (b) the guaranteed
     ESLGB loan has in fact been funded by June 30, 2003, or such date as may be
     extended by the ESLGB; and (c) no Permanent Shutdown has occurred.

11.  The confidentiality agreements between PBGC and WHX and PBGC and WPSC
     currently in effect shall each remain in effect during the term of the
     definitive documentation contemplated by this Term Sheet.

-8-

12.  WHX, WPC, and WPSC shall provide reports to PBGC as specified in the
     definitive documentation, including but not limited to such reports as are
     required to be provided to the ESLGB and to RBC and any subsequent bank
     financing. WHX shall provide reports to PBGC as specified in the definitive
     documentation.

13.  USWA shall provide its affected members with a summary of those aspects of
     this Term Sheet affecting their rights as participants under the Plan, in
     particular paragraphs 2, 4 and 9.

14.  The obligations of the parties set forth in this Term Sheet (other than the
     obligations of the parties set forth in paragraphs 1 and 9 of this Term
     Sheet, which the parties expressly agree are binding obligations of the
     parties, effective immediately upon the execution of this Term Sheet) are
     subject to PBGC, WHX, WPC, WPSC, and USWA finalizing and executing
     definitive documentation that includes the essential terms provided herein
     and other terms mutually acceptable to the parties, on or before June 30,
     2003 (or such later date as the ESLGB may extend its willingness to provide
     the guaranteed loan). The parties acknowledge that, until such time as (a)
     the Bankruptcy Court approves WPSC's obligations hereunder and (b)
     definitive documentation satisfactory to PBGC shall have been finalized and
     executed (or such requirement waived by PBGC), resolution by WPSC of the
     treatment of the WHX pension plan that is acceptable to and approved by
     PBGC has not been achieved as required by the first condition of the
     ESLGB's letter to RBC dated March 26, 2003.

15.  All notices, requests and other communications to any party hereunder shall
     be in writing and shall be given,

            If to WHX:

                       President
                       WHX Corporation
                       110 East 59th Street
                       New York, NY 10022

            If to PBGC:

                       Director
                       Corporate Finance and Negotiations Department
                       Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
                       1200 K Street, N.W.
                       Washington, D.C. 20005

                       and

                       General Counsel
                       Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
                       1200 K Street, N.W.
                       Washington, D.C. 20005

-9-

If to WPC:

                       Wheeling-Pittsburgh Corporation
                       1134 Market Street
                       Wheeling, WV 26003
                       Attention: James G. Bradley, President and CEO

            If to WPSC:

                       The Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation
                       1134 Market Street
                       Wheeling, WV 26003
                       Attention: James G. Bradley, President and CEO

            If to USWA:

                       United Steelworkers of America
                       Five Gateway Center
                       Pittsburgh, PA 15222
                       Attention: Paul Whitehead, General Counsel

     All such notices, requests and other communications shall be deemed
     received on the date of receipt by the recipient thereof if received prior
     to 5:00 p.m. in the place of receipt and such day is a business day in the
     place of receipt. Otherwise, any such notice, request or communication
     shall be deemed not to have been received until the next succeeding
     business day in the place of receipt.

-10-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed and delivered
this Term Sheet as of the latest date set forth opposite a signature below.

                                       PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORPORATION

Date:                                  By:
                                          --------------------------------------
                                       Steven A. Kandarian
                                       Executive Director

WHX CORPORATION

Date:                                  By:
                                          --------------------------------------
                                       Ronald LaBow
                                       Chairmann

Date:                                  By:
                                          --------------------------------------
                                       Stewart Tabin
                                       Assistant Treasurer

WHEELING-PITTSBURGH CORPORATION

Date:                                  By:
                                          --------------------------------------
                                       Name:
                                       Title:

WHEELING-PITTSBURGH STEEL CORP.

Date:                                  By:
                                          --------------------------------------
                                       James Bradley
                                       Chief Executive Officer

-11-

UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA

Date:                                  By:
                                          --------------------------------------
                                       Name:
                                       Title:

Date:
                                       -----------------------------------------
                                       Ronald LaBow, in his individual capacity
                                       with respect to his obligation described
                                       in paragraph 6 herein

-12-

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.11>
 16
 ex1011to10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 10.11
                                 WHX CORPORATION

                                 2006 BONUS PLAN

1.   PURPOSE OF THE PLAN.

          The goal of the 2006 Bonus Plan (the "Plan") is to offer an incentive
plan that will help recruit and retain outstanding talent by providing both
short-term incentives for achieving annual targets while rewarding key
management for achieving long-term growth goals.

     2.   ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN.

          The Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors
(the "Board") of WHX Corporation (the "Company") shall have full power and
authority to designate recipients of awards ("Awards"), determine the terms and
conditions of such Awards (which need not be identical) and to interpret the
provisions and supervise the administration of the Plan. The Committee may
delegate, in its sole discretion, approval of bonuses for certain employees of
Handy   Harman ("H H"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, to the
President/CEO of H H (the "CEO") and/or to the Board of Directors of H H.

          Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall interpret
the Plan and all Awards granted under the Plan, shall make such rules as it
deems necessary for the proper administration of the Plan, shall make all other
determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan and
shall correct any defects or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency
in the Plan or in any Awards granted under the Plan in the manner and to the
extent that the Committee deems desirable to carry into effect the Plan or any
Awards. The act or determination of a majority of the Committee shall be the act
or determination of the Committee and any decision reduced to writing and signed
by all of the members of the Committee shall be fully effective as if it had
been made by a majority at a meeting duly held. Subject to the provisions of the
Plan, any action taken or determination made by the Committee pursuant to this
and the other Sections of the Plan shall be conclusive on all parties.

          In the event that for any reason the Committee is unable to act, or if
there shall be no such Committee, then the Board shall administer the Plan, and
references herein to the Committee (except in the proviso to this sentence)
shall be deemed to be references to the Board.

     3.   DESIGNATION OF GRANTEES.

          The persons eligible for participation in the Plan as recipients of
Awards shall include officers and employees of the Company or any of its
subsidiaries (the "Grantees"). In selecting the Grantees, and in determining the
Awards, the Committee may consider any factors it deems relevant, including
without limitation, the office or position held by the Grantee, the Grantee's
degree of responsibility for and contribution to the growth and success of the
Company or any of its subsidiaries, the Grantee's length of service, promotions
and potential. Generally, Grantees will be recommended by the CEO of H H to the
Committee.

4.   GRANT OF AWARDS.

          The Committee in its sole discretion shall set specific goals for
certain Grantees on a periodic basis. Such goals may be set on an annual basis
pursuant to the Company's Short Term Incentive Plan ("STIP") or on a longer-term
basis pursuant to the Company's Long Term Incentive Plan ("LTIP"). The goals for
each Grantee, as well as the Awards attached to reaching such goals, will be
communicated to each Grantee as the CEO or the Committee shall determine, but in
each such case shall be set forth in writing and approved by either the
Committee, the CEO and/or the Board of Directors of H H. The Plan shall not be
in effect in any given year with respect to any Grantee until he/she initials
the written goals sheet applicable to such Grantee, which initialing shall
signify his/her understanding of and agreement with all of the terms and
conditions of the Plan. It is contemplated that the Committee will adopt
specific targets under the STIP and LTIP on an annual basis, and will review
recommendations received by the CEO. All calculations upon which Awards are
based shall be certified by the Chief Financial Officer of the Company. In order
to be eligible to receive an award pursuant to this Plan, the Grantee must be
employed by the Company on the earlier of the date Awards are generally paid to
Grantees or the March 31 following the payout year.

     5.   TAXES.

          The Company may make such provisions as it may deem appropriate,
consistent with applicable law, in connection with any Awards granted under the
Plan with respect to the withholding of any taxes (including income or
employment taxes) or any other tax matters.

     6.   EFFECTIVE DATE OF PLAN.

          The Plan shall be effective on January 1, 2006.

     7.   AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.

          The Committee or the Board may amend, suspend, or terminate the Plan
or authorize, increase or withhold the payment of any Award in its absolute and
complete discretion. The decision of the Committee or the Board shall be final,
binding and conclusive.

     8.   GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS.

          The Plan, and the grant of Awards hereunder, and the obligation of the
Company to deliver such awards shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules
and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies as may be
required.

     9.   GENERAL PROVISIONS.

          (a) EMPLOYMENT MATTERS. The adoption of the Plan shall not confer upon
any Grantee any right to continued employment with the Company or its
subsidiaries, or in the case of a Grantee who is a director, continued service
as a director with the Company or its subsidiaries, as the case may be, nor

2

shall it interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any of its
subsidiaries to terminate the employment of any of its employees or the service
of any of its directors. All participants in the Plan shall be and remain at all
times employees at will, and the Company and each subsidiary shall have the
absolute right to terminate any such employment at any time, with or without
cause, in its absolute discretion, subject to the terms of any written
employment agreement that any participant may have with the Company or any
subsidiary thereof.

          (b) LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. No member of the Board or the Committee,
or any officer or employee of the Company acting on behalf of the Board or the
Committee, shall be personally liable for any action, determination or
interpretation taken or made in good faith with respect to the Plan, and all
members of the Board or the Committee and each and any officer or employee of
the Company acting on their behalf shall, to the extent permitted by law, be
fully indemnified and protected by the Company in respect of any such action,
determination or interpretation.

          (c) TERMINATION. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, if any
Grantee's employment with or service to the Company or any of its subsidiaries
is terminated for Cause (as defined below) or voluntarily by Grantee or for any
other reason except as explicitly provided in the next sentence, such Grantee's
Award(s) shall be cancelled. If such Grantee's employment with or service to the
Company or any of its subsidiaries is terminated because of termination by the
Company other than for Cause, or because of death or Disability, such Grantee's
Award(s) shall be granted to such Grantee to the extent of the pro-rata portion
of the earned portion of the "Team" Award, if any, and the pro-rata portion of
the earned portion of the "Individual" Award, if any, for the year so employed,
in each case as determined in the sole and complete discretion of the Committee.
For the purpose of this Plan, "Cause" shall have the meaning set forth in such
Grantee's employment agreement or if no such agreement exists or such term is
not provided for, Cause shall mean: (i) the Grantee engaging in conduct which is
materially injurious to the Company or any of their respective customer or
supplier relationships, monetarily or otherwise; (ii) the Grantee engaging in
any act of fraud, misappropriation or embezzlement or sexual or other harassment
of any employee of the Company; (iii) the Grantee engaging in any act which
would or does constitute a felony; (iv) the willful or continued failure by the
Grantee to substantially perform his duties, including, but not limited to,
willful misconduct, gross negligence or other acts of dishonesty; or (v) the
Grantee's material violation or breach of the Plan or any agreement with the
Company or its subsidiaries. For the purpose of this Plan, "Disability" shall
have the meaning set forth in such Grantee's employment agreement or if no such
agreement exists or such term is not provided for, Disability shall mean: the
Grantee's absence from the full-time performance of his duties hereunder for at
least ninety (90) days, whether or not consecutive, within any twelve (12)
consecutive months as a result of any incapacity due to physical or mental
illness.

          (d) MODIFICATION; PRIOR PLANS. Notwithstanding anything set forth in
this Plan or in any letter sent to an individual Grantee, the calculation,
determination and payment of any Award is subject to the final determination of
the Committee, which shall be entitled to alter, amend or nullify the terms of
the Plan, or to authorize, increase or withhold the payment of any Award in its
absolute and sole discretion. The decision of the Committee shall be final,

3

binding and conclusive. The terms and conditions of this Plan shall supersede
and cancel any and all prior bonus plans and arrangements and participation in
this Plan shall nullify Grantee's right or entitlement to any bonus under any
other such bonus plan or arrangement of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.

WHX CORPORATION
                                     Effective January 1, 2006

4

</EX-10.11>

<EX-21.1>
 17
 ex211to10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 21.1

WHX CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES

WHEELING-PITTSBURGH CAPITAL CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation

WHX AVIATION CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation

WHX METALS CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation

WHX CS CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation

HANDY   HARMAN, a New York corporation

HANDY   HARMAN SUBSIDIARIES

ALLOY RING SERVICE, INC., Delaware

CAMDEL METALS CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation

CANFIELD METAL COATING CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation

CONTINENTAL INDUSTRIES, INC. a Oklahoma corporation

DANIEL RADIATOR CORPORATION, a Texas corporation

HANDY   HARMAN AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC., a Delaware corporation

HANDY   HARMAN OF CANADA, LIMITED, a Province of Ontario Canada corporation

HANDY   HARMAN ELECTRONIC MATERIALS CORPORATION, a Florida corporation

HANDY   HARMAN (EUROPE) LIMITED, a corporation organized under the laws of
England and Wales

HANDY   HARMAN INTERNATIONAL, LTD., a Delaware corporation

HANDY   HARMAN PERU, INC., a Delaware corporation

HANDY   HARMAN TUBE COMPANY, INC., a Delaware corporation

H H PRODUCTIONS, INC., a Delaware corporation

INDIANA TUBE CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation

INDIANA TUBE DANMARK A/S a corporation of Kolding, Denmark

KJ-VMI REALTY, INC., a Delaware corporation

LUCAS-MILHAUPT, INC., a Wisconsin corporation

MARYLAND SPECIALTY WIRE, INC., a Delaware corporation

MICRO-TUBE FABRICATORS, INC., a Delaware corporation

OLYMPIC MANUFACTURING GROUP, INC., a Delaware corporation

OMG, INC., a Delaware corporation

PAL-RATH REALTY, INC., a Delaware corporation

PLATINA LABORATORIES, INC., a Delaware corporation

RIGBY-MARYLAND (STAINLESS), LTD, a corporation organized under the laws of
England and Wales

SHEFFIELD STREET CORPORATION, a Connecticut corporation

SUMCO INC., an Indiana corporation

SWM, INC., a Delaware corporation

WILLING B WIRE CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation

OMG, INC.'s SUBSIDIARIES

OMG ROOFING, INC.

</EX-21.1>

<EX-31.1>
 18
 ex311to10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 31.1

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                                  CERTIFICATION

I, Glen M. Kassan, certify that:

1.       I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of WHX Corporation;

2.       Based  on my  knowledge,  this  report  does  not  contain  any  untrue
         statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
         to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances  under which
         such  statements  were made, not misleading  with respect to the period
         covered by this report;

3.       Based on my knowledge,  the financial  statements,  and other financial
         information  included in this  report,  fairly  present in all material
         respects the financial condition,  results of operations and cash flows
         of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.       The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer and I are responsible for
         establishing  and  maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as
         defined  in  Exchange  Act  Rules  13a-15(e)  and  15d-15(e))  for  the
         registrant and have:

            a)    Designed such disclosure  controls and  procedures,  or caused
                  such  disclosure  controls and procedures to be designed under
                  our supervision,  to ensure that material information relating
                  to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
                  made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
                  during the period in which this report is being prepared;

            b)    Evaluated the  effectiveness  of the  registrant's  disclosure
                  controls  and  procedures  and  presented  in this  report our
                  conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
                  and  procedures,  as of the end of the period  covered by this
                  report based on such evaluation; and

            c)    Disclosed  in this  report  any  changes  in the  registrant's
                  internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
                  the registrant's  most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
                  fourth  fiscal  quarter in the case of an annual  report) that
                  has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
                  affect  the  registrant's   internal  control  over  financial
                  reporting; and

5.       The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer(s) and I have  disclosed,
         based on our most recent  evaluation of internal control over financial
         reporting,  to the  registrant's  auditors  and the audit  committee of
         registrant's  board of directors (or persons  performing the equivalent
         function):

a)    All significant  deficiencies  and material  weaknesses in the
                  design  or  operation  of  internal   control  over  financial
                  reporting which are reasonably  likely to adversely affect the
                  registrant's ability to record, process,  summarize and report
                  financial information; and

            b)    Any fraud,  whether or not material,  that involves management
                  or  other  employees  who  have  a  significant  role  in  the
                  registrant's internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ Glen M. Kassan
                                                        -----------------------
                                                        Glen M. Kassan
                                                        Principal Executive Officer

December 19, 2006

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 19
 ex312to10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 31.2

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
                                  CERTIFICATION

I, Robert K. Hynes, certify that:

1.      I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of WHX Corporation;

2.      Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
        of a material  fact or omit to state a material  fact  necessary to make
        the  statements  made,  in light of the  circumstances  under which such
        statements  were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered
        by this report;

3.      Based on my knowledge,  the financial  statements,  and other  financial
        information  included in this  report,  fairly  present in all  material
        respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows
        of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.      The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer and I are  responsible for
        establishing  and  maintaining  disclosure  controls and  procedures (as
        defined  in  Exchange  Act  Rules   13a-15(e)  and  15d-15(e))  for  the
        registrant and have:

            a)    Designed such disclosure  controls and  procedures,  or caused
                  such  disclosure  controls and procedures to be designed under
                  our supervision,  to ensure that material information relating
                  to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
                  made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
                  during the period in which this report is being prepared;

            b)    Evaluated the  effectiveness  of the  registrant's  disclosure
                  controls  and  procedures  and  presented  in this  report our
                  conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
                  and  procedures,  as of the end of the period  covered by this
                  report based on such evaluation; and

            c)    Disclosed  in this  report  any  changes  in the  registrant's
                  internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
                  the registrant's  most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
                  fourth  fiscal  quarter in the case of an annual  report) that
                  has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
                  affect  the  registrant's   internal  control  over  financial
                  reporting; and

5.      The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based
        on our  most  recent  evaluation  of  internal  control  over  financial
        reporting,  to the  registrant's  auditors  and the audit  committee  of
        registrant's  board of directors (or persons  performing  the equivalent
        function):

a)    All significant  deficiencies  and material  weaknesses in the
                  design  or  operation  of  internal   control  over  financial
                  reporting which are reasonably  likely to adversely affect the
                  registrant's ability to record, process,  summarize and report
                  financial information; and

            b)    Any fraud,  whether or not material,  that involves management
                  or  other  employees  who  have  a  significant  role  in  the
                  registrant's internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                        ------------------------
                                                        Robert K. Hynes
                                                        Principal Financial Officer

   December 19, 2006

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 20
 ex320to10k06447_12312005.htm

sec document 

Exhibit 32

Section 1350 Certification

Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
                    (subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350,
                  Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code)

Pursuant to Section 906 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and
(b) of Section 1350,  Chapter 63 of Title 18,  United States Code),  each of the
undersigned   officers  of  WHX   Corporation,   a  Delaware   corporation  (the
"Corporation"), does hereby certify that:

The Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December 31, 2005 (the
"Form 10-K") of the Corporation  fully complies with the requirements of Section
13(a)  or  15(d)  of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of  1934,  as  amended,  and
information  contained  in the  Form  10-K  fairly  presents,  in  all  material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.

/s/ Glen M. Kassan
                                                        ------------------------
                                                        Glen M. Kassan
                                                        Principal Executive Officer

December 19, 2006

/s/ Robert K. Hynes
                                                        ------------------------
                                                        Robert K. Hynes
                                                        Principal Financial Officer

</EX-32>

