<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061013_10-K_edgar_data_357020_0001193125-06-207533_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1104155</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>230113</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>178413</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>563728</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>43</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-06-207533.hdr.sgml : 20061013
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061013144529
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-06-207533
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060731
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061013
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061013

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LTX CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000357020
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	INSTRUMENTS FOR MEAS & TESTING OF ELECTRICITY & ELEC SIGNALS [3825]
		IRS NUMBER:				042594045
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0731

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-10761
		FILM NUMBER:		061144046

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		825 UNIVERSITY AVENUE
		CITY:			NORWOOD
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02062
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7814611000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		825 UNIVERSITY AVENUE
		CITY:			NORWOOD
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02062

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 TDtsdNYJdJ5RdUIrHDAwgeDDSwsHAGdCG2kcr/N4+yX2LvEEIm5Vdg26i5E3sBxO
 WSl/DiwcgdM2jUM8K9VnAQ==

 0001193125-06-207533.txt : 20061013

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION    
   Washington, D.C. 20549             FORM 10-K        (Mark One)
   
    For the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006      OR       
    For the transition period from                        to
                            Commission
File No. 000-10761            LTX Corporation        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)             

MASSACHUSETTS   
     
   04-2594045    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of       Incorporation or organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)     
     825 University Avenue        Norwood, Massachusetts 02062        (781) 461-1000        (Address, including zip code, and telephone number, including area code, of registrant s principal executive offices)            Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:       

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which
registered     
 
   None   
     
   None    
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:       Common Stock, par value $0.05 per share            Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
    Yes           No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
    Yes           No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
    Yes         No             Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of
 accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):      Large Accelerated
Filer                         Accelerated
Filer                           Non-Accelerated Filer               Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.):     Yes           No           The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant on January 31, 2006 was $335,070,030.      Number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s
classes of Common Stock as of September 29, 2006:      Common Stock, Par Value $0.05 Per Share, 62,013,099 shares.            DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE       Portions of the Registrant s Proxy Statement in connection with its 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
December 6, 2006 are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K Report. The Compensation Committee Report, Stock Performance Graph and Audit Committee Report of the Registrant s Proxy Statement are expressly not incorporated
herein by reference.        

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION        INDEX        

Page    
 
    PART I   

Item 1.   
      
    Business   

Introduction    
      
  1   

Industry Overview    
      
  1   

Fusion, the LTX Solution    
      
  3   

The LTX Business Strategy    
      
  3   

Fusion Overview    
      
  4   

Service    
      
  5   

Engineering and Product Development    
      
  5   

Sales and Distribution    
      
  6   

Customers    
      
  6   

Manufacturing and Supply    
      
  6   

Competition    
      
  6   

Backlog    
      
  7   

Proprietary Rights    
      
  7   

Employees    
      
  7   

Environmental Affairs    
      
  7   
 
    Item 2.   

Properties    
      
  7   
 
    Item 3.   

Legal Proceedings    
      
  8   
 
    Item 4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  8   

PART II   

Item 5.   

Market for Registrant s Common Equity and Related Stock Holder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
      
  8   
 
    Item 6.   

Selected Financial Data    
      
  9   
 
    Item 7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  9   
 
    Item 7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
      
  28   
 
    Item 8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  29   
 
    Item 9.   

Changes in and Disagreements with Accounts on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  51   
 
    Item 9A.   

Controls and Procedures    
      
  51   

PART III   

Item 10.   

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant    
      
  53   
 
    Item 11.   

Executive Compensation    
      
  53   
 
    Item 12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
      
  53   
 
    Item 13.   

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions    
      
  53   
 
    Item 14.   

Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
      
  53   

PART IV   

Item 15.   

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  53   

Financial Statements    
      
  53   

Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  54   

Exhibits    
      
  54   

Listing of Exhibits    
      
  54   

Exhibits    
      
  56   

Signatures    
      
  57   

Table of Contents  

    PART I        

Item 1.   
   Business          
  Introduction       LTX Corporation, ( LTX  or the  Company ), designs, manufactures, markets and
services semiconductor test solutions. Semiconductor designers and manufacturers worldwide, such as ASE, Infineon Technologies, National Semiconductor, Maxim Integrated Products, Renesas, STMicroelectronics and Texas Instruments, use semiconductor
test equipment to test devices at two different stages during the manufacturing process. These devices are incorporated in a wide range of products, including mobile internet equipment such as wireless access points and interfaces, broadband access
products such as cable modems and DSL modems, personal communication products such as cell phones and personal digital assistants, consumer products such as televisions, videogame systems, digital cameras and automobile electronics, and for power
management in portable and automotive electronics. We provide test systems, global applications consulting, repair services and operational support to over 100 customers in more than 15 countries. For additional information relating to foreign
revenues, refer to Note 8 to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.      We offer our customers the LTX Fusion            platform, which combines our enVision software with our high-end Fusion HFi configuration or with our
scalable Fusion X-Series (CX, DX, EX, and MX) configurations. Fusion was the first of a new class of test systems designed to test system-on-a-chip, or SOC, devices in a single test step. With Fusion, we believe we have the leading test system
capable of testing a broad range of analog, digital, and mixed signal (a combination of digital and analog) and SOC devices, on a scalable, single platform.      LTX focuses its marketing and sales on integrated device manufacturers (IDMs), subcontractors, which perform manufacturing services for the semiconductor industry, foundries, which provide wafer manufacturing
capability, and fabless companies, which design integrated circuits but have no manufacturing capability.      LTX Corporation was incorporated
in Massachusetts in 1976. Our executive offices are located at 825 University Avenue, Norwood, Massachusetts 02062 and our telephone number is 781-461-1000. The terms  LTX  and the  Company  refer to LTX Corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries unless the context otherwise specified. The Company makes its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports available, free of charge, in the
Investor Relations section of the Company s website at  www.ltx.com  as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.       
  Industry Overview       The testing of devices is a critical step during the semiconductor production process.
Typically, semiconductor companies test each device at two different stages during the manufacturing process to ensure its functional and electrical performance prior to shipment to the device user. These companies use semiconductor testing
equipment to first test a device after it has been fabricated but before it has been packaged to eliminate non-functioning parts. Then, after the functioning devices are packaged, they are tested again to determine if they fully meet performance
specifications. Testing is an important step in the manufacturing process because it allows devices to be fabricated at both maximum density and performance a key to the competitiveness of semiconductor manufacturers. Shown below is a schematic
depiction of the major steps in the semiconductor fabrication and test process.         
   1   

Table of Contents  

Three primary factors ultimately drive demand for semiconductor test equipment:       

increases in unit production of semiconductor devices;         

increases in the complexity and performance level of devices used in electronic products; and         

the emergence of next generation device technologies.        Historically, increases in unit production resulted primarily from the proliferation of the personal computer and growth of the telecommunications industry. We expect that future unit production growth will be augmented by consumer
electronics, the mobile internet, broadband network access, the increased use of digital signal processing (DSP) devices, and automotive and power management applications. These increases in unit production, in turn lead to a corresponding increase
in the need for test equipment.      Furthermore, demand is increasing worldwide for smaller, more highly integrated electronic products. This
has led to ever higher performance and more complex semiconductor devices, which, in turn, results in a corresponding increase in the demand for equally sophisticated test equipment.      Finally, the introduction and adoption of a new generation of end-user products requires the development of next generation device technologies. For
example, access to information is migrating from the stand-alone desktop computer, which might be physically linked to a local network, to the seamless, virtual network of the internet, which is accessible from anywhere by a variety of new portable
electronic communication products. A critical enabling technology for this network and multimedia convergence is SOC. SOC provides the benefits of lower cost, smaller size and higher performance by combining advanced digital, analog and embedded
memory technologies on a single device. Historically, these discrete technologies were only available on several separate semiconductor devices, each performing a specific function. By integrating these functions on a single device, SOC enables
lower cost, smaller size, higher performance, and lower power consumption.      The increases in unit production of devices, the increase in
complexity of those devices, and, ultimately, the emergence of new semiconductor device technology have mandated changes in the design, architecture and complexity of such test equipment. Semiconductor device manufacturers must still be able to test
the increasing volume and complexity of devices in a reliable, cost-effective, efficient and flexible manner. However, the increased pace of technological change, together with the large capital investments required to achieve economies of scale,
are changing the nature and urgency of the challenges faced by device designers and manufacturers.      Designers and manufacturers
historically have not been able to use their test floors at peak efficiency because they had to use several separate digital and mixed signal testers to perform all of their required testing. This increases their costs of ownership due to increased
training requirements, greater floor space, decreased utilization and slower throughput. Furthermore, manufacturers cannot fully test new SOC designs because their current testing equipment does not include a sufficiently broad range of mixed signal
instrumentation. Manufacturers are subject to further increased testing costs if their testing equipment lacks the flexibility and capacity to run parallel tests on multiple devices at one time, or multi-site testing. These problems are exacerbated
when volume production of devices increases.         
   2   

Table of Contents  

Fusion, the LTX Solution       Our solution is the Fusion test platform. Fusion tests new generations of
highly-integrated mixed signal devices, advanced digital devices and SOC devices, which incorporate these technologies. The testing requirements of digital and mixed signal devices are essentially a subset of the testing requirements of SOC devices.
The test requirements of all of these semiconductor devices are well within the range of Fusion s capability. The Fusion single test platform allows our customers to use a single integrated hardware and software system to test all of these
devices, rather than the multiple test systems typically required. By using a single testing platform, our customers are able to optimize their asset utilization, thereby increasing their manufacturing flexibility and lowering the overall cost of
their testing processes.      Fusion is a differentiated solution to this test challenge because it provides all of the following:   
    A single test platform.   Historically, device manufacturers used several narrowly focused testers to test their
devices, each designed to test only digital, only memory, or only mixed signal devices, leading to productivity loss as device output mix changed. Our Fusion test platform combines our test hardware with our enVison software to provide a flexible,
scalable test environment. Fusion integrates the testing of mixed signal, digital and embedded memory functions into a single platform to provide better test performance and lower the cost of ownership for our customers by raising the utilization
rates of their test floors. Not only have our customers selected Fusion as part of their SOC strategy, but they are also purchasing Fusion for capacity expansion on all their devices, eliminating the need for separate digital and mixed signal
testers.        Scalable performance.   Semiconductor devices, depending upon their application, require
different levels of instrument performance for testing. For example, complex SOC devices require the advanced digital testing performance, including embedded memory testing, found in traditional high-end VLSI testers, whereas consumer-oriented
digital and mixed signal devices typically have less stringent digital test requirements. The Fusion scalable, single platform offers different levels of test capability and tester infrastructure support at different price points, providing our
customers with the ability to match test performance exactly to their needs.        Multi-site test
capability.   Multi-site testing, the parallel testing of more than one device (of the same type) on one testing machine at a given time, lowers the overall cost of testing devices by increasing the throughput of each testing machine. We
designed Fusion to make multi-site testing easier for the test designer. Earlier generations of testing equipment required test engineers to spend significant amounts of time writing specific software programs to run tests in parallel. Our enVision
software allows test engineers to expand single-site testing programs into multi-site testing programs with ease. Fusion s hardware can be configured with a sufficient number of instruments to perform multi-site testing even on highly complex
SOC devices. These features allow our customers to take advantage of the increased throughput offered by multi-site testing without sacrificing their ability to introduce new products to market quickly.        A full range of mixed signal instrumentation.   Testing different types of SOC input/output interfaces requires radio
frequency (RF), digital signal processing (DSP), power management, time measurement, and other instruments. Fusion provides customers with the broad range of mixed signal instrumentation necessary to test these devices to the customer s desired
specifications. Mixed signal test expertise is in short supply in the industry and one of our strengths in SOC testing is the depth of our mixed signal intellectual property, based on our heritage as a pioneer in this field.        Easy-to-use software for test program development.   Our enVision software provides the customer s test engineer
with an expandable library of prepackaged, reusable test program modules and debugging tools, all accessible through an easy-to-use graphical user interface. In most other testers, test engineers can reuse test code only by cutting and pasting lines
of program code. enVision encapsulates test techniques into software objects that are added to the library for reuse in subsequent test programs. The test engineer can use these software objects when designing new test programs simply by dragging
them with a mouse into the program flow. The ease-of-use of our software accelerates our customers  development process, which allows them to introduce their semiconductor devices to market more rapidly.       
  The LTX Business Strategy       LTX s objective is to be the leading supplier of semiconductor test equipment.
Key elements of our strategy include:        Extend our technological lead in single platform testing.   We
believe that a scalable, single test platform solution offers our customers the greatest flexibility in managing the utilization of their test assets, thereby decreasing the cost of test. We intend to continue to focus our resources on a scalable,
single integrated hardware and software test platform solution by developing options and configurations that will extend Fusion s reach to address cost-effectively  
       
   3   

Table of Contents  

the testing of semiconductor devices across a wider spectrum of performance and complexity. Rather than diluting our resources with a multiple platform
strategy, we believe our resources will provide a higher return on investment by focusing on a scalable, single test platform for advanced digital, mixed signal, and SOC devices.        Concentrate our sales, applications consulting, and service efforts on key accounts.   We recognize that large,
diversified semiconductor device manufacturers, commonly referred to as IDMs, large offshore test and assembly companies and certain fabless semiconductor device designers purchase most of the world s test equipment, and that the level of
support we are able to provide to them has a direct impact on future business. We believe that focusing our sales and support resources on these key semiconductor companies is the most efficient way to maximize revenue. Therefore, we have organized
our selling, field service, and field applications organizations around these key companies, and located these resources close to their facilities. This has helped us to increase our responsiveness to customers  needs and develop collaborative
relationships that help guide us in developing future applications and system options.        Further improve the
flexibility of our business model.   In order to focus our resources on the development of Fusion, improve our responsiveness to customer needs, reduce fixed costs and working capital requirements, and manage the cyclicality of our
industry more effectively, we have implemented a more flexible business model. With the completion of the transition of our assembly, system integration and testing operations to Jabil Circuit, substantially all of our manufacturing functions have
been outsourced to third parties. We augment our focused internal development resources through our Open Platform Program, which was designed to facilitate third party development of instrumentation for our Fusion platform using supported hardware
and software interfaces to our Fusion hardware and enVision operating system. We engage contract employees to address periods of peak demand. Through our strategic alliances, we have implemented additional international distribution and have
outsourced certain repair and support functions. We intend to continue to identify and implement programs which enhance our ability to meet customers  needs while reducing fixed costs.       
  Fusion Overview       Fusion offers a unique solution for testing the full spectrum of non-memory devices, consisting
of SOC, mixed signal, and digital devices. The Fusion test platform provides customers with highly reliable test performance and cost-efficiency in their efforts to accelerate their time-to-market for SOC, mixed signal, and digital devices. The
Fusion test platform combines our test station hardware with our enVision software and is available in Fusion HFi, Fusion CX, Fusion DX, Fusion EX and Fusion MX configurations. These configurations depend primarily on the digital complexity of the
device to be tested.        enVision        Our enVision software helps customers design device test programs faster and more efficiently by providing a customer s test engineer with an expandable library of prepackaged, reusable test program modules and
debugging tools, all accessible through an easy-to-use graphical user interface. In other testers, test engineers can reuse test code only by cutting and pasting lines of program code. enVision software circumvents much of this laborious process by
encapsulating test techniques into software objects that are added to the library for reuse in subsequent test programs. The test engineer can use these software objects when designing new test programs simply by inserting them into the program
flow.        Fusion HFi        Our Fusion HFi is one of the most advanced testers available. The Fusion HFi and HF (the predecessor to the HFi) feature up to 1,024 digital pins, mixed signal and RF test instruments, and power management test
technology. Before the advent of Fusion HF, semiconductor manufacturers required several narrowly focused testers, designed to test only digital, with or without embedded memory, or only mixed signal devices, but not all three. Since the Fusion HFi
scalable, single platform can efficiently test complex devices ranging from mixed signal to digital to SOC, it eliminates the need for mutually exclusive testers. The Fusion HFi test system offers the broadest range of leading-edge test capability
in a single platform, including advanced mixed signal, high-speed digital, digital signal processing, RF wireless, embedded memory, power management, and time measurement. This range of instrumentation on a single platform allows semiconductor
manufacturers to optimize their asset utilization, thereby increasing their manufacturing flexibility and lowering the overall cost of their testing processes. Fusion s modular, open architecture has been designed so that it can keep pace with
today s rapid changes in test technology. As new generations of devices require more advanced test capabilities, customers can easily upgrade their Fusion testers to accommodate these requirements. Our Open Platform Program encourages third
party development of instrumentation for Fusion to augment our internal development, thereby increasing flexibility and scalability.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

     Fusion CX, DX, EX and MX        Fusion CX is a high-performance, lower cost Fusion system targeted primarily towards the testing of high-volume mixed signal devices. The
mixed signal device technologies tested by Fusion CX are often the precursor to mixed signal technologies that will be incorporated into next generation SOC designs. Because Fusion CX uses the same enVision development software as Fusion HFi,
customers are able to upgrade their test capability to Fusion HFi as the complexity of their next generation SOC devices require. Fusion CX features up to 128 digital pins, mixed signal and RF test instruments, and power management test technology.
Typical device types tested on Fusion CX include radio frequency/wireless such as 802.11, power management and automotive devices.      Fusion DX extends the reach of Fusion to the desktop, offering complete ATE capabilities and the flexibility to be deployed at any point from design to production. Fusion DX can be integrated into other production equipment, including test
systems, probers or handlers without use of additional floor space, and offers a wide range of capabilities, including full-featured digital and a broad line of mixed signal instruments.      Fusion EX offers four times the instrument channels as Fusion CX, enabling a wider range of system configurations Fusion EX uses existing
Fusion platform instruments to address the testing needs of advanced consumer digital and baseband communications devices. These instruments contain a smaller number of instrument channels in each card, which allows for small configuration
increments. This, combined with Fusion s universal slot design, produces system configurations with a more efficient cost of ownership than competitive platforms.      Fusion MX is a mid range offering that can accommodate twice the number of instruments as the Fusion CX and is targeted at applications in
the Automotive, Power Management, Wireless RF and Consumer Baseband area. The Fusion MX uses the same instrument cards that are available in DX, CX and EX products because it is based on the same universal slot system architecture. The MX can be
configured with up to 256 digital pins and at the same time accommodate any of the mixed signal instruments available in a DX, CX or EX. In addition to the instrument compatibility the MX can also run the exact same test programs developed on the
other X-Series configurations because they all run the same envision operating system.       
  Service       Our worldwide service organization is capable of performing installations and all necessary maintenance
of test systems sold by us, including routine servicing of components manufactured by third parties. We provide various parts and labor warranties on test systems or options designed and manufactured by us, and warranties on components that have
been purchased from other manufacturers and incorporated into our test systems. We also provide training on the maintenance and operation of test systems we sell. Service revenue totaled $33.2 million, or 15.3% of net sales, in fiscal 2006, $31.5
million, or 23.4% of net sales, in fiscal 2005, $38.5 million, or 15.0% of net sales, in fiscal 2004.      We offer a wide range of service
contracts, which gives our customers the flexibility to select the maintenance program best suited to their needs. Customers may purchase service contracts which extend maintenance beyond the initial warranty provided. Many customers enter into
annual or multiple-year service contracts over the life of the equipment. The pricing of contracts is based upon the level of service provided to the customer and the time period of the service contract. We believe that service revenues should be
less affected by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry than sales of test equipment. We maintain service centers around the world, both directly and through strategic alliances with companies that are located in Singapore, Japan, Korea,
Thailand and California.       
  Engineering and Product Development       The test equipment market is characterized by rapid technological change
and new product introductions, as well as advancing industry standards. Our competitive position will depend upon our ability to successfully enhance the Fusion platform and develop new instrumentation, and to introduce these new products on a
timely and cost-effective basis. We devote a significant portion of personnel and financial resources to the continued development of our scalable, single test platform capabilities, including embedded memory, digital and mixed signal core
competencies. We also seek to maintain close relationships with our customers in order to be responsive to their product development and production needs. Our expenditures for engineering and product development were $53.8 million, $66.3 million,
and $67.7 million, during fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.      Our engineering strategy is to focus on development of the Fusion
scalable, single test platform. We believe that our single-platform strategy is a more cost effective method of focusing research and design efforts, because we are able to avoid dilution of our development efforts across multiple product platforms.
We also intend to develop our future test systems in an  
       
   5   

Table of Contents  

evolutionary manner so that they may be progressively upgraded. Together with our strategic alliances and our Open Platform Program, this approach preserves
our customers  substantial investments in our pre-existing test systems and programs, and, in general, helps us maintain market acceptance for our test systems. We work closely with our customers to define new product features and to identify
emerging applications for our products.       
  Sales and Distribution       We sell our products primarily through a worldwide direct sales organization. Our sales
and marketing organization is structured around key accounts, with a sales and marketing force of approximately 21 people. We use a small number of independent sales representatives and distributors in certain other regions of the world.   
  Our sales to customers outside the United States are primarily denominated in United States dollars. Sales outside North America were 59%, 69%, and
66%, of total net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. See Note 8 to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to foreign revenues.       
  Customers       Our customers include many of the world s leading semiconductor device manufacturers. In fiscal
years 2006, 2005 and 2004, Texas Instruments accounted for 56%, 47%, and 58% of net sales, respectively. A representative list of customers that have ordered Fusion products includes the following:       

Amkor  
     
  Maxim Integrated Products  
     
  Silicon Image   
 
  austriamicrosystems  
     
  Melexis  
     
  Silicon Laboratories   
 
  ASAT  
     
  National Semiconductor  
     
  SMSC   
 
  ASE  
     
  Nordic Semiconductor  
     
  STATS   
 
  Delphi  
     
  Philips Semiconductor (NXP)  
     
  STMicroelectronics   
 
  Freescale  
     
  Qlogic  
     
  Texas Instruments   
 
  Giga Solutions  
     
  RFMD  
     
  UTAC   
 
  Infineon Technologies  
     
  Renesas  
     
  Vitesse Semiconductor   
 
  KYEC  
     
  Samsung  

Because a relatively small number of semiconductor companies purchase most of the world s
semiconductor test equipment and we have concentrated our sales and support efforts on such key customers, we believe that sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of net sales for the foreseeable future.
      
  Manufacturing and Supply       We have completed the transition of our final assembly, system integration, and
testing operations of our Fusion HFi, CX, DX, EX and MX, to Jabil Circuit. We outsource certain components and subassemblies to contract manufacturers. We use standard components and prefabricated parts manufactured to our specifications. These
components and subassemblies are used to produce testers in configurations specified by our customers. Some of the components for our products are available from a number of different suppliers; however, many components are purchased from a single
supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Although we believe that all single source components currently are available in adequate amounts, we cannot be certain that shortages will not develop in the future. We are dependent on a semiconductor
device manufacturer, Maxtek Components, who is a sole source supplier of custom components for our products. We have no written supply agreements with this sole source supplier and purchase our custom components through individual purchase orders.
We continuously evaluate sources for our custom components. We cannot assure you that such alternative sources will be qualified or available to us.      Our facilities in Norwood, Massachusetts and San Jose, California perform research and development activities, which include assembly, system integration and testing for prototypes.       
  Competition       Many other domestic and foreign companies participate in the markets for each of our products and
the industry is highly competitive. We compete principally on the basis of performance, cost of test, reliability, customer service, applications support, price and ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. Our competitors in the market for
test systems include Advantest, Credence Systems, Eagle Test Systems, Teradyne and Verigy. Certain of these companies have a substantially larger share of our addressable market than we do and the majority of our major competitors have greater
financial and other resources than we do. Certain of these competitors have a larger installed base of equipment than we do. All of our major competitors are suppliers of other types of automatic test equipment and also supply products to other

6   

Table of Contents  

markets. We expect our competitors to enhance their current products and they could introduce new products with comparable or better price and performance.
In addition, new competitors, including semiconductor manufacturers themselves, may offer new technologies, which may in turn reduce the value of our product lines.       
  Backlog       At July 31, 2006, our backlog of unfilled orders for all products and services was $72.8 million,
compared with $78.0 million at July 31, 2005. Historically, test systems generally ship within twelve months of receipt of a customer s purchase order. While backlog is calculated on the basis of firm orders, orders may be subject to
cancellation or delay by the customer with limited or no penalty. Our backlog at any particular date, therefore, is not necessarily indicative of actual sales which may be generated for any succeeding period. Historically, our backlog levels have
fluctuated based upon the ordering patterns of our customers and changes in our manufacturing capacity.       
  Proprietary Rights       The development of our products is largely based on proprietary information. We rely upon a
combination of contract provisions, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights in products. We also have a policy of seeking U.S. patents on technology considered of particular strategic importance. The earliest
expiration date of any of our patents is March 2, 2010. Our other patents have later expiration dates and relate to various technologies, including technology relating to the Fusion system and pin electronics. Although we believe that the
copyrights, trademarks and patents we own are of value, we believe that they will not determine our success, which depends principally upon our engineering applications, manufacturing, marketing and service skills. However, we intend to protect our
rights when, in our view, these rights are infringed upon.      The use of patents to protect hardware and software has increased in the test
equipment industry. We have at times been notified of claims that we may be infringing patents issued to others. Although there are no pending actions against us regarding any patents, no assurance can be given that infringement claims by third
parties will not negatively impact our business and results of operations. As to any claims asserted against us, we may seek or be required to obtain a license under the third party s intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance,
however, that a license will be available under reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we could decide to engage in litigation to challenge such claims or a third party could engage in litigation to enforce such claims. Such litigation could be
expensive and time consuming and could negatively impact our business and results of operations.       
  Employees       At July 31, 2006, we employed 418 employees and 20 temporary workers. None of our employees are
represented by a labor union, and we have experienced no work stoppages. Many of our employees are highly skilled, and we believe our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain these employees. We consider
relations with our employees to be good.       
  Environmental Affairs       Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to
protect the environment. We do not anticipate that compliance with these laws and regulations will have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.       

Item 2.   
   Properties         All of our facilities are leased. We
have achieved worldwide ISO 9001:2000 certification at our facilities. We maintain our headquarters in Norwood, Massachusetts, where corporate administration, sales and customer support, research and development are located in a 56,380 square foot
facility under a lease, which expires in 2016. We also maintain an additional facility in a 71,000 square foot building in San Jose, California. Our lease of this facility expires in 2007. We also lease sales and customer support offices at various
locations in the United States totaling approximately 21,000 square feet. We have a total of five leased properties in the United States, four in Asia and six in Europe.      As part of the acquisition of StepTech, Inc., we assumed leases on manufacturing and development facilities totaling 18,000 square feet in Hopkinton, Massachusetts. One facility of 6,000 square feet expired in March
2004, one facility expired in October 2005, leaving a total of 6,000 square feet remaining, which expires in January 2008, under the assumed StepTech leases. The entire 6,000 square feet is vacant as of July 31, 2006.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

   Our former European headquarters is located in Woking, United Kingdom, which is vacant as of
July 31, 2006, and our Asian headquarters is located in Singapore. We also maintain sales and support offices at other locations in Europe and in Asia. Office space leased in Asia and Europe totals approximately 81,000 square feet.   
  We believe that our existing facilities are adequate to meet our current and foreseeable future requirements.       

Item 3.   
   Legal Proceedings         We have no material pending
legal proceedings.       

Item 4.   
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders         There were no matters submitted to a vote of stockholders during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.       PART II        

Item 5.   
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stock Holder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities         Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol  LTXX . The following table shows the high and low closing sale prices
per share of our common stock, as reported on the Nasdaq National Market, for the periods indicated:       
    We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain
future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, our credit agreement with a bank contains certain covenants that prohibit us
from paying cash dividends.      As of September 15, 2006, we had approximately 895 stockholders of record of our common stock.
      Compensation Plans       The following
table shows information relating to the Company s compensation plans as of July 31, 2006:       

Equity Compensation Plan Information   

Plan Category    
      
   Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights   
      
   Weighted average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights   
      
   Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding
securities in first column)   

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders   
      
  9,294,184  
      
  $  
  9.19  
      
  4,500,612  
  *   
 
    Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders   
      
  0  

0  
      
  0  

Total   
      
  9,294,184  
      
  $  
  9.19  
      
  4,500,612  
  *   

*  
  Includes 639,773 shares available for issuance under an employee stock purchase plan which is intended to qualify as such under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code.
          
   8   

Table of Contents  

   This table excludes an aggregate of 45,451 shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding options assumed
by the Company in connection with the StepTech acquisition. The weighted average exercise price of the excluded options is $0.9960.       

Item 6.   
   Selected Financial Data         The following table
contains our selected consolidated financial data and is qualified by the more detailed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. The selected consolidated financial data for and as of the end of each of
the five fiscal years in the period ended July 31, 2006 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements.       

(a)  
  See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         

Item 7.   
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         The following discussion should be read together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this annual report on
Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements. See  Business Risks .       Overview       We design, manufacture, market and service
semiconductor test solutions worldwide to leading companies in the semiconductor industry. Our Fusion semiconductor test equipment can test a broad range of analog, digital, mixed signal (a combination of analog and digital) and system-on-a-chip, or
SOC, semiconductor devices, all on a single test platform.      LTX focuses its marketing and sales on integrated device manufacturers (IDMs),
subcontractors, which perform manufacturing services for the semiconductor industry, foundries, which provide wafer manufacturing capability, and fabless companies, which design integrated circuits but have no manufacturing capability.   
     
   9   

Table of Contents  

    Industry Conditions and Outlook       We sell capital equipment and services to companies that design, manufacture, assemble or test semiconductor devices. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, causing in turn a cyclical impact on our financial
results. As a capital equipment provider, our revenue is driven by the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of our customers, who often delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to variations in their business. The level of capital
expenditures by these semiconductor companies depends on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductor devices and the products that incorporate them. Therefore, demand for our semiconductor test equipment is dependent on growth in the
semiconductor industry. In particular, three primary characteristics of the semiconductor industry drive the demand for semiconductor test equipment:       

increases in unit production of semiconductor devices;         

increases in the complexity of semiconductor devices used in electronic products; and         

the emergence of next generation device technologies, such as SOC.        The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, causing in turn a cyclical impact on our financial results. Our operating results were negatively impacted by a severe industry-wide slowdown in the semiconductor
industry, which began to affect the semiconductor test industry in fiscal 2001 and continued through our fiscal year ended July 31, 2003. However the industry entered a period of growth during our fiscal year ended July 31, 2004 and the
Company s quarterly revenues increased sequentially each quarter during fiscal year 2004. The period of growth was short and we experienced a sharp decline in orders in the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, which continued into our second
quarter of fiscal year 2005. The Company experienced improved order levels beginning in our third quarter of fiscal year 2005 and continuing until our third quarter of fiscal year 2006. Incoming orders decreased significantly in our fourth quarter
of fiscal year 2006 as compared to our third quarter of fiscal year 2006. It is unclear whether we are entering into another sustained period of decline and if so, how severe the slowdown would be.      The following graph shows the cyclicality in semiconductor test equipment orders and shipments from fiscal 1997 through fiscal 2006 (using the three
month moving average), as calculated by SEMI, an industry trade organization:     

      Consistent with our business strategy, we have continued to invest significant amounts in engineering and
product development to develop and enhance our Fusion platform during industry slowdowns. In fiscal 2006, engineering and product development expense was $53.8 million, or 24.9% of net sales, as compared to $66.3 million, or 49.3% of net sales, in
fiscal 2005. Our engineering and development expense decreased sequentially on a quarterly basis during fiscal 2006 as next generation Fusion product development projects were completed. Engineering and development expense for the first  
       
   10   

Table of Contents  

quarter of fiscal 2006 was $15.2 million compared to $12.4 million in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. We believe that our competitive advantage in the
semiconductor test industry is primarily driven by the ability of our Fusion platform to meet or exceed the technical specifications required for the testing of advanced semiconductor devices in a cost-efficient manner. Our current investment in
engineering and product development is focused on enhancements to and additions to our product offerings with new options and instruments designed for specific market segments. We believe this will continue to differentiate the Fusion platform from
the product offerings of our competitors.      In addition, over the past several years, we have increasingly transitioned the manufacture of
certain components and subassemblies to contract manufacturers, thereby reducing our fixed manufacturing costs associated with direct labor and overhead. In fiscal 2002, we completed the transition of our final assembly, system integration and
testing operations for Fusion HF to Jabil Circuit. In fiscal 2004, we completed the transition of our Fusion HFi, CX and DX manufacturing to Jabil Circuit. In fiscal 2005, we added Fusion EX, and in fiscal 2006, we added Fusion MX. This has further
reduced our fixed manufacturing costs. We believe that transforming product manufacturing costs into variable costs will in the future allow us to improve our performance during cyclical downturns while preserving our historic gross margins during
cyclical upturns.      During fiscal years 2005 and 2006, we took several additional cost reduction measures to further mitigate the adverse
effect of cyclical downturns on our profitability. Our total worldwide headcount was reduced from 635 employees and 55 temporary workers at the end of fiscal 2004 to 418 employees and 20 temporary workers at the end of fiscal 2006. In addition, we
continued to maintain other cost reduction measures, such as the strict oversight and reduction in discretionary travel and other variable overhead expenses. We believe that these reductions in operating costs have reduced our costs while preserving
our ability to fund critical product research and development efforts and continue to provide our customers with the levels of responsiveness and service they require.      We are also exposed to the risks associated with the volatility of the U.S. and global economies. The lack of visibility regarding whether or when there will be sustained growth periods for the sale of electronic
goods and information technology equipment, and uncertainty regarding the amount of sales, underscores the need for caution in predicting growth in the semiconductor test equipment industry in general and in our revenues and profits specifically.
Slow or negative growth in the domestic economy may continue to materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations for the foreseeable future. The Company s results of operations would be further
adversely affected if we were to experience lower than anticipated order levels, cancellations of orders in backlog, extended customer delivery requirements or pricing pressure as a result of a slowdown. At lower levels of revenue, there is a higher
likelihood that these types of changes in our customers  requirements would adversely affect our results of operations because in any particular quarter a limited number of transactions accounts for an even greater portion of sales for the
quarter.       Critical Accounting Policies and the Use of Estimates       The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We based these estimates and assumptions on historical experience, and evaluate them on an on-going basis to ensure they remain reasonable under current conditions.
Actual results could differ from those estimates. We believe that our most critical accounting policies upon which our financial condition depends on and which involve the most complex and subjective decisions or assessments are as follows: revenue
recognition, inventory reserve, income taxes, warranty, goodwill and other intangibles, in process research and development, impairment of long-lived assets and allowances for doubtful accounts.        Revenue Recognition        The
Company s revenue recognition policy is described in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, contained in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive
evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the seller s price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. In the future, if acceptance provisions significantly change, the
timing of the revenue recognition could be affected.        Inventory Reserve        We sell capital equipment to companies that design, manufacture, assemble, and test semiconductor devices. We are exposed to a number of economic and
industry factors that could result in portions of our inventory becoming either obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in our customers  capital expenditures, technological changes in
our markets, our ability to meet changing customer requirements, competitive pressures in products  
       
   11   

Table of Contents  

and prices, and the availability of key components from our suppliers. Our policy is to establish inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest our
inventory may be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products or market conditions. We regularly evaluate the ability to realize the value of our inventory based on a combination of
factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, estimated product end of life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Purchasing and alternative usage options are also
explored to mitigate inventory exposure. When recorded, our reserves are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventory to its net realizable value. Pursuant to SAB Topic 5-BB, inventory reserves establish a new cost basis for inventory.
Such reserves are not reversed until the related inventory is sold or otherwise disposed. For the twelve months ended July 31, 2006, we recorded $2.5 million of sales of previously reserved items. There was $2.1 million of sales of previously
reserved items recorded for the twelve months ended July 31, 2005 and there were no sales of previously reserved items in fiscal 2004. The net incremental gross margin and net income for these transactions of $1.1 million for July 31, 2006
and $1.4 million for July 31, 2005 did not have a significant impact on operating margins and the results. As of July 31, 2006, our inventory of $29.8 million is stated net of inventory reserves of $46.5 million and consists of next
generation Fusion products and engineering materials. Of the $29.8 million inventory balance at July 31, 2006, $7.4 million consists of  last time buy  custom components for Fusion HFi and $15.9 million consists of materials and components
to support current requirements for Fusion HFi and X-Series, $5.1 million consists of evaluation inventory at customers and $1.4 million consists of inventory held in deferred revenue pending product acceptance. If actual demand for our products
deteriorates or market conditions are less favorable than those that we project, additional inventory reserves may be required. See Notes 2 and 10 to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.        Income Taxes        In accordance
with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes , ( SFAS No. 109 ) the Company recognizes deferred income taxes based on the expected future tax consequences of differences between
the financial statement basis and the tax bases of assets and liabilities, calculated using enacted tax rates for the year in which the differences are expected to be reflected in the tax return. Valuation allowances are established when necessary
to reduce deferred taxes to the amount expected to be realized.      The Company has deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit
carryforwards, net operating losses and other deductible temporary differences, which will reduce taxable income in future periods. SFAS No. 109 requires that a valuation allowance be established when it is  more likely than not  that
all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. A review of all available positive and negative evidence needs to be considered, including a company s performance, the market environment in which the Company operates, length of
carryback and carryforward periods, existing sales backlog and future sales projections. Where there are cumulative losses in recent years, SFAS No. 109 creates a strong presumption that a valuation allowance is needed. This presumption can be
overcome in very limited circumstances. As a result of our cumulative loss position in recent years and the increased uncertainty relative to the timing of profitability in future periods, we continue to maintain a valuation allowance for our entire
net deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets decreased from $240.6 million at July 31, 2005, to $224.2 million at July 31, 2006. We expect to record a full valuation allowance on future tax benefits until we can
sustain an appropriate level of profitability. Until such time, we would not expect to recognize any significant tax benefits in our future results of operations. We will continue to monitor the recoverability of our deferred tax asset on a periodic
basis. See Note 5 to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.        Warranty        The Company provides standard warranty coverage on its systems, providing labor and parts necessary to repair the systems during the warranty period. The
Company accounts for the estimated warranty cost as a charge to cost of sales when the revenue is recognized. The estimated warranty cost is based on historical product performance and field expenses. The Company uses actual service hours, and parts
expense per system, and applies the actual labor and overhead rates to estimate the warranty charge. The actual product performance and/or field expense profiles may differ, and in those cases the Company adjusts warranty accruals accordingly.
       Goodwill and Other Intangibles        The Company has adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , which requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives no longer be amortized.
Intangible assets with a definite useful life are amortized over their estimated useful life. Assets recorded in these categories are tested for impairment at least annually or when a change in circumstances may result in future impairment.
Intangible assets are recorded at historical cost. Intangible assets acquired in an acquisition, including research and development, are recorded using the purchase method of accounting. Assets acquired in an acquisition are recorded at their
estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. If the  
       
   12   

Table of Contents  

carrying value of the asset is in excess of the present value of the expected future cash flows, the carrying value is written down to fair value in the
period identified.        Impairment of Long-Lived Assets        On an ongoing basis, we review the value and period of amortization or depreciation of long-lived assets. Included in long-lived assets is machinery,
equipment, spare parts used for service, office furniture, office equipment and leasehold improvements. During the review, we reevaluate the significant assumptions used in determining the original cost of long-lived assets. Although the assumptions
may vary from transaction to transaction, they generally include revenue growth, operating results, cash flows and other indicators of value. We then determine whether there has been a permanent impairment of the value of long-lived assets based
upon events or circumstances that have occurred since acquisition. The extent of the impairment amount recognized is based upon a determination of the fair value of the impaired asset.        Allowance for Doubtful Accounts        A majority of our trade receivables are derived from sales to large multinational semiconductor manufacturers throughout the world. In order to monitor potential credit losses, we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers 
financial condition. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained for potential credit losses based upon assessment of the expected collectibility of all accounts receivable. The allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed periodically to assess
the adequacy of the allowances. In any circumstances in which we are aware of a customer s inability to meet its financial obligations, we take a certain percentage of the accounts receivable balance as an allowance, which is based on the age
of the receivables, the circumstances surrounding the customer s financial situation and our historical experience. If circumstances change, and the financial condition of our customers were adversely affected resulting in their inability to
meet their financial obligations to us, we may need to record additional allowances.       Results of Operations       The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the principal items included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations data.       
    The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the principal items included in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations as percentages of total net sales.       
       
   13   

Table of Contents  

    Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005         Net Sales.   Net sales consist of semiconductor test equipment, related hardware and software support, and maintenance services, net of returns and allowances. Net sales were $216.5 million in fiscal
2006 and $134.5 million in fiscal 2005. The increase in net sales year over year is primarily a result of a continued upward trend in incoming orders for semiconductor test equipment which began in the Company s third quarter of fiscal 2005 and
has continued to favorably impact net sales into our fourth quarter, as well as the increased demand for our next generation Fusion products. Driving this demand is business in the following end markets: Communications SOC, DSP, RF Wireless,
Automotive, Power, and Mixed Signal/Converter.      Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for 82.1% and 77.2% of revenues for the twelve
months ended July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, respectively. Reduced sales from any one of our largest customers could have a significant effect on our sales. Sales from X-Series products (CX, DX, EX, MX) totaled $89.2 million or 49% of
product revenue in fiscal year 2006, and $33.6 million, or 32.6% of product revenue in fiscal year 2005. See Note 8 to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.      Service revenue, consisting of sales of replacement and spare parts and labor charges, totaled $33.2 million, or 15.3% of net sales, in fiscal 2006 and
$31.5 million, or 23.4% of net sales, in fiscal 2005. The increase in service revenue is directly attributable to customer adjustments to their level of service needed to support their equipment utilization run rates. Geographically, sales to
customers outside the United States were $127.6 million, or 58.9% of net sales, in fiscal 2006 and $93.3 million, or 69.3% of net sales, in fiscal 2005.        Cost of Sales.   Cost of sales consists of material, outsourced manufacturing costs, labor, depreciation and associated overhead. Cost of sales increased by $19.2 million to $110.0 million in fiscal
2006 from $90.8 million in fiscal 2005. As a percentage of net sales, cost of sales was 50.8% of net sales in fiscal 2006 as compared to 67.5% of net sales in fiscal 2005. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales decreased 16.7% year over year in
fiscal 2006. The improvement in cost of sales as a percentage of net sales when comparing fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2005, is due to a more favorable product mix of higher end configurations within the HFi series, a larger percentage of our newer
X-Series products which carry higher profit margins and the impact of our cost reduction actions to lower fixed overhead expenses initiated during fiscal 2005.        Inventory Related Provision.   The Company reviews excess and obsolete inventory when conditions exist that suggest our inventory may be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based upon our
assumptions about future demand for our products or market conditions. We also evaluate our excess and obsolete inventory on a quarterly basis identifying and addressing significant events that might have an impact on inventories and related
reserves. The major variables impacting inventory usage are the demand for current products, overall industry conditions, key sales initiatives and the impact that our new product introductions have on current product demand. In the first quarter of
fiscal 2005, our major customers reduced their forecasts for capital equipment purchases, which resulted in a sudden and substantial drop in revenues and orders for the Company. As a result of the shorter than expected upturn in business conditions
in fiscal 2004, and the completion of the Company s transition to its second generation Fusion, we deemed it appropriate to make an adjustment to our inventory and recorded a $47.5 million excess and obsolete inventory provision. Of the $47.5
million reserve, approximately 90% was related to first generation Fusion and consisted of raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods. The remaining 10% was related to excess second generation Fusion products and was made to more accurately
reflect the Company s assessment of current product demand. There were no significant inventory provisions recorded in fiscal 2006. For the twelve months ended July 31, 2006, we recorded $2.5 million in sales of previously reserved items,
compared to $2.1 million in fiscal 2005 which represents the gross cash received from the customer. The net incremental gross margin and net income for these transactions of $1.1 million for July 31, 2006 and $1.4 million for July 31, 2005
did not have a significant impact on operating margins and the results.        Engineering and Product Development
Expenses.   Engineering and product development expenses were $53.8 million, or 24.9% of net sales, in fiscal 2006 as compared to $66.3 million, or 49.3% of net sales, in fiscal 2005. The $12.5 million decrease in engineering and product
development expenses in 2006 from 2005 was a result of completion of next  
       
   14   

Table of Contents  

generation Fusion product development projects which enabled us to initiate workforce reductions in fiscal year 2006 and 2005. These saving were partially
offset by a $1.0 million increase due to stock-based compensation expense in fiscal 2006, compared to no stock-based compensation expense in fiscal 2005. Additionally, we have been able to leverage and re-use X-Series engineering development across
a broader range of applications than in the past with our Fusion HF and HFi products. This has resulted in more efficient use of engineering resources and lower costs.        Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.   Selling, general and administrative expenses were $31.1 million, or 14.3% of net sales, in fiscal 2006 as compared to $29.4 million, or 21.8% of net
sales, in fiscal 2005. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a $2.7 million accrual for employee profit sharing and $3.5 million of stock-based compensation expense in fiscal 2006, compared to no
stock-based compensation expense in fiscal 2005, which was partially offset by savings from our workforce reductions made in fiscal 2005 and 2006.        Reorganization Costs.   For the quarter ended July 31, 2006, the Company recorded a reorganization charge of approximately $0.2 million, relating primarily to the relocation of the Company s corporate headquarters.
     For the quarter ended January 31, 2006, the Company recorded a reorganization charge of approximately $1.9 million, of which $0.6
million consisted of severance and employee benefit costs relating to Europe workforce reductions, $1.2 million for future lease obligations and $0.3 million of plant closure expenses and legal costs related to the closure of the Company s
facilities in the United Kingdom. These expenses were partially offset by a $0.2 million reversal of a previously recorded liability for the remaining lease payments of the Company s Westwood, Massachusetts facility. In connection with the
relocation of its corporate headquarters to Norwood, Massachusetts the Company signed an agreement during the quarter ended January 31, 2006 which reduced the future liability previously recorded in fiscal 2005. Approximately $1.1 million of
cash payments relating to the $1.9 million reorganization charge were made during the fiscal year ending July 31, 2006. The remaining $0.8 million will be paid out over fiscal years 2007, 2008 and 2009. The Company expects to realize $0.8
million in annualized savings from the European facility related actions beginning in the quarter ended July 31, 2006. In addition, we continued to maintain other cost reduction measures, such as the strict oversight and reduction in
discretionary travel and other variable overhead expenses. We believe that these reductions in operating costs have reduced our costs while preserving our ability to fund critical product research and development efforts and continue to provide our
customers with the levels of responsiveness and service they require.      On October 25, 2005, LTX Corporation took actions to reduce its
operating expenses, including reducing its worldwide workforce by approximately 15%, eliminating 77 positions. Of the 77 positions, 74% were from engineering, 14% from administration, 7% from manufacturing and 5% were from sales and marketing. The
Company took these actions based on a continuing review of its business plans and operations. The Company expects to realize annual savings in operating expenses of approximately $8.0 million as a result of these actions. For the quarter ended
October 31, 2005, the Company recorded a reorganization charge relating to workforce reductions and the separation agreement with its Chief Executive Officer of $4.2 million, of which $2.3 million consisted of severance costs relating to a
worldwide workforce reduction, which was paid during the fiscal year ending July 31, 2006, and a $1.9 million charge relating to the separation of the Company s Chief Executive Officer. The separation agreement with the Company s
Chief Executive Officer has a $1.2 million cash component, and a non-cash component of $0.7 million of expense related to the acceleration of stock options. For more information, please refer to the Company s current reports on Form 8-K filed
on October 27, 2005 and November 4, 2005.        Interest Expense.   Interest expense for fiscal year 2006 was $9.0 million
as compared to $6.8 million for fiscal year 2005, and consists primarily of interest expense for the balance of the 4.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes and interest expense of 8.25% (the lender s variable prime rate) as of July 31, 2006
on the $60.0 million long-term loan with a commercial lender which closed on June 3, 2005. The proceeds of the $60.0 million term loan were used to repurchase in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, $61.7 million of the 4.25% Convertible
Subordinated Notes. The increase in expense is a result of replacing the $61.7 million of debt at 4.25% with the $60.0 million of bank debt at prime rate which was 8.25% as of July 31, 2006, and a higher interest rate associated with the
extended maturity on the Company s $27.2 million Convertible Subordinated Notes due August 2007.        Investment Income.  
Investment income was $6.1 million for fiscal 2006 as compared to $5.2 million for fiscal 2005. The increase in investment income is due to rising interest rates and an increase in cash in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005.       Income Tax.   No provision was recorded in 2006 due to the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards to offset taxable income. Due to
our cumulative loss position, management concluded that it was appropriate to continue to maintain a full valuation allowance for the Company s net operating loss and other carryforwards, and net deferred tax assets. The Company recorded no
income tax benefit for fiscal year 2005 due to the increase in the valuation allowance to fully reserve net operating loss and other carryforwards, and net deferred tax assets. The Company will continue to record a 100%  
       
   15   

Table of Contents  

valuation allowance until it is more likely than not we will utilize the net operating loss and other carryforwards, and deferred tax asset. The gross
deferred tax asset is valued at $224.2 million as of July 31, 2006 with a 100% valuation allowance.       Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004
        Net Sales.   Net sales consist of semiconductor test equipment and related hardware and software support and
maintenance services, net of returns and allowances. Net sales were $134.5 million in fiscal 2005 and $255.8 million in fiscal 2004. The decrease in net sales year over year is primarily a result of sluggish demand for semiconductors resulting in
reduced demand for semiconductor test equipment. In the first quarter of fiscal 2005, our major customers reduced their forecasts for capital equipment purchases, which resulted in a sudden and substantial drop in revenues and orders for the
Company, which continued into our second quarter of fiscal 2005. The Company experienced a modest increase in orders in its third quarter, followed by a slight increase in orders in the fourth fiscal quarter. As a result of increasing orders, our
revenue increased 52% in the fourth quarter from the previous quarter. The impact to the Company of any industry slowdown is exacerbated by the fact that the semiconductor industry is highly concentrated, and a small number of device manufacturers
and contract assemblers account for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor test equipment, including the Company s equipment. Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for 77.2% and 87.5% of revenues for the twelve months
ended July 31, 2005 and July 31, 2004, respectively. Reduced sales from any one of our largest customers could have a significant effect on our sales. Sales from X-Series products (CX, DX, EX, MX) totaled $33.6million or 32.6% of product
revenue in fiscal year 2005, and $48.8 million or 22.4% of product revenue in fiscal year 2004. Service revenue, consisting of sales of replacement and spare parts and labor charges, totaled $31.5 million, or 23.4% of net sales, in fiscal 2005 and
$38.5 million, or 15.0% of net sales, in fiscal 2004. The decrease in service revenue is directly attributable to customer adjustments to their level of service needed to support their equipment utilization run rates. Geographically, sales to
customers outside the United States were $93.3 million, or 69.3% of net sales, in fiscal 2005 and $168.9 million, or 66.0% of net sales, in fiscal 2004.        Cost of Sales.   Cost of sales consists of material, outsourced manufacturing costs, labor, depreciation and associated overhead. Cost of sales decreased by $63.9 million to $90.8 million in fiscal
2005 from $154.7 million in fiscal 2004. As a percentage of net sales, cost of sales was 67.5% of net sales in fiscal 2005 as compared to 60.5% of net sales in fiscal 2004. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales increased 7.0% year over year in
fiscal 2005 primarily as a result decreased sales volume, as the fixed cost components of our cost of sales did not decrease on a prorata basis with our decrease in net sales.        Inventory Related Provision.   In the first quarter of fiscal 2005, our major customers reduced their forecasts for capital equipment
purchases, which resulted in a sudden and substantial drop in revenues and orders for the Company. These conditions continued into our second quarter of fiscal 2005. As a result of the shorter than expected upturn in business conditions and the
completion of the Company s transition to its second generation Fusion, we deemed it appropriate to make an adjustment to our inventory valuation and recorded a $47.5 million excess and obsolete inventory provision, primarily related to our
Fusion HF product line, in the quarter ended October 31, 2004. Inventory reserves establish a new cost basis for inventory and such reserves are not reversed until the related inventory is sold or otherwise disposed. For the twelve months ended
July 31, 2005, we recorded $1.4 million of gain from sales of previously reserved items. This gain was recorded in the quarters ended January 31, 2005 and July 31, 2005 in the amounts of $0.5 million and $0.9 million, respectively.
There were no sales of previously reserved items in fiscal 2004 and 2003. As of July 31, 2005, our inventory of $41.2 million is stated net of inventory reserves of $99.6 million and consists of second generation Fusion products and engineering
materials. Of the $26.1 million comprising the raw materials inventory, $4.1 million consists of  last time buy  custom components for Fusion HFi and $22.0 million consists of raw materials for Fusion HFi and CX, which the Company believes
will be consumed over the next 24 months. If actual demand for our products deteriorates or market conditions are less favorable than those that we project, additional inventory reserves may be required.        Engineering and Product Development Expenses.   Engineering and product development expenses were $66.3 million, or 49.3% of net sales,
in fiscal 2005 as compared to $67.7 million, or 26.4% of net sales, in fiscal 2004. The $1.4 million decrease in engineering and product development expenses in 2005 from 2004 was a result of our annual cost savings of $4.9 million due to the
workforce reductions, offset by wage increases of $1.7 million implemented on August 1, 2004, increased engineering development expense of $1.1 million to support next generation Fusion products and additional depreciation expense of $0.7
million. Our engineering and development expense decreased sequentially on a quarterly basis during fiscal 2005 as second generation Fusion product development projects were completed. For the first quarter of fiscal 2005, our engineering and
development expense was $17.7 million compared to $14.3 million in our fourth quarter. The decrease in quarterly expenditure was a result of completion of next generation Fusion product development projects for Fusion HFi, CX and EX.        Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.   Selling, general and administrative expenses were $29.4 million, or 21.8% of net sales,
in fiscal 2005 as compared to $28.0 million, or 11.0% of net sales, in fiscal 2004. The increase in selling,  
       
   16   

Table of Contents  

general and administrative expenses was primarily the result of a wage increase implemented on August 1, 2004, Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404
consulting expenses, and legal expenses incurred as a result of an anonymous  whistleblower  allegation relating to the Company s third quarter financial results. Offsetting this increase were two reversals of accruals in fiscal 2005
relating to legal issues of $0.7 million and a favorable settlement of a liability associated with the settlement of a software license audit of $0.6 million that was recorded as part of the acquisition of StepTech, Inc. Additionally, a $1.7 million
gain was included in selling, general and administrative expenses as a result of the repurchase by the Company of $61.7 million of outstanding principal of the 4.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes for a purchase price of $60.0 million. Partially
offsetting this gain was an amortization expense of $0.4 million relating to the repurchase of the notes.      Our cost reduction actions in
fiscal 2005 have lowered our quarterly selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses averaged $6.7 million per quarter for the last two quarters of fiscal 2005 as compared to $8.0 million per quarter in
the first half of fiscal 2005.        Reorganization Costs.   The Company recorded a reorganization charge in the quarter ended
October 31, 2004 of $3.1 million, of which $1.5 million consisted of severance costs relating to a worldwide workforce reduction and $1.6 million related to consolidation of the Company s facilities in the United Kingdom. The $1.6 million
reorganization charge related to the consolidation of the Company s facilities in the United Kingdom consisted of future lease obligations net of any rental income. As previously disclosed in a current report on Form 8-K filed on
September 20, 2004, the workforce reduction undertaken during the quarter eliminated 74 positions, or approximately 11% of the Company s worldwide workforce. As a result of these actions, the Company will realize an annual savings in
operating expenses of approximately $8.0 million, which has been offset by approximately $2.0 million as a result of the removal of the salary and wage freeze imposed since 2001. The net effect of the cost reduction actions and the removal of the
salary and wage freeze is an annual savings of approximately $6.0 million in operating expenses. During the twelve months of fiscal year 2005, the Company s cash expenditures related to the charges were approximately $2.1 million. At
July 31, 2005, the remaining reserve was approximately $1.0 million and relates to the consolidation of the Company s facilities in the United Kingdom. There are no remaining severance costs from this workforce reduction to be paid during
fiscal year 2006. Cash payments for the United Kingdom lease will be approximately $0.6 million in fiscal 2006.      During the quarter ended
April 30, 2005, the Company recorded a reorganization charge of $28.6 million as a result of a significant corporate-wide restructuring undertaken to more effectively align the Company s resources with our current business strategy. Of the
$28.6 million, approximately $4.0 million related to headcount reduction and approximately $24.6 million related to fixed asset impairment and facilities consolidation.      The $4.0 million charge was taken as a result of a worldwide workforce reduction of approximately 25% on February 15, 2005, which eliminated 153 positions. On February 18, 2005, the Company filed a Form 8-K
describing these actions. The workforce reduction resulted in cash expenditures, consisting principally of severance and employee benefit payments, of $3.3 million during the Company s 2005 fiscal year and the Company paid out approximately
$0.7 million, the remaining reserve at July 31, 2005, during the first half of the 2006 fiscal year. The Company expects to realize an annual savings in operating expense of approximately $13.0 million as a result of this reduction.   
  The $24.6 million reorganization charge relating to fixed asset impairment and facilities consolidation was undertaken as a result of an asset
impairment review. This review was triggered by the workforce reduction and business unit reorganization. Of the $24.6 million impairment charge, $18.1 million was related to fixed asset equipment, $4.6 million related to future lease obligations on
equipment that will no longer be used and $1.9 million related to facilities consolidation. The equipment, which has or will be disposed of over the next three to six months, consists primarily of older technology having little or no resale value.
The Company expects to realize an annual savings of $8.5 million to depreciation expense and $1.9 million to operating expense as a result of this reorganization.        Interest Expense.   Interest expense for fiscal year 2005 was $6.8 million as compared to $6.6 million for fiscal year 2004, and consists primarily of interest expense for the balance of the 4.25%
Convertible Subordinated Notes and interest expense of 6.25% (the lender s variable prime rate) as of July 31, 2005 on the $60.0 million long-term loan with a commercial lender.        Investment Income.   Investment income was $5.2 million for fiscal 2005 as compared to $3.2 million for fiscal 2004. The increase in
investment income is due to rising interest rates in fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004, partially offset by a lower average cash balance during the year.        Income Tax.   The Company recorded no income tax benefit for fiscal year 2005 due to the increase in the valuation allowance to fully reserve net operating loss and other carryforwards, and net
deferred tax assets. No provision was recorded  
       
   17   

Table of Contents  

in 2004 due to the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards to offset taxable income. Due to our cumulative loss position, management concluded that
it was appropriate to continue to maintain a full valuation allowance for the Company s net operating loss and other carryforwards, and net deferred tax assets. The Company will continue to record a 100% valuation allowance until it is more
likely than not we will utilize the net operating loss and other carryforwards, and deferred tax asset. The gross deferred tax asset is valued at $240.6 million as of July 31, 2005 with a 100% valuation allowance.       Liquidity and Capital Resources       At July 31,
2006, we had $194.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities and working capital of $143.3 million as compared to $177.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities and working capital of $183.0 million at
July 31, 2005. The increase in the cash and cash equivalents was due to a net cash increase in operating activities of $22.4 million less cash used for capital expenditures of $6.7 million to support next generation Fusion products and related
options. The total increase in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities for the year was $16.7 million. The decrease in working capital from $183.0 million as of July 31, 2005 to $143.3 million as of July 31, 2006 was primarily
due to the long term liability for the Convertible Subordinated Notes moving to short term classification in fiscal 2006, partially offset by the increase in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities.      Accounts receivable from trade customers, net of allowances, was $38.7 million at July 31, 2006, as compared to $19.8 million at July 31, 2005.
The principal reasons for the $18.9 million increase in accounts receivable are increased sales revenue. Sales for the quarter ended July 31, 2006 were $67.4 million as compared to $38.9 million for the quarter ended July 31, 2005. The
allowance for sales returns and doubtful accounts decreased to $1.4 million, or 3.5% of gross trade accounts receivable, at July 31, 2006 from $1.9 million, or 8.8% of gross trade accounts receivable, at July 31, 2005. There were
approximately $.5 million of previously reserved accounts receivable written off in fiscal 2006.      Accounts receivable from other sources
decreased $2.2 million to $3.3 million at July 31, 2006, as compared to $5.5 million at July 31, 2005. The decrease was attributed to the decrease in the sale of component inventory at cost to our outsource suppliers. The Company sells raw
materials and component inventory at cost to contract manufacturers. The Company does not recognize revenue from these sales. Terms of sale are typically net 30 days, with no recourse provisions to the buyer. Although the majority of the
Company s raw materials and components are procured by our outsource suppliers (principally Jabil Circuit), we continue to carry on our balance sheet certain custom components and inventory that are in excess of our 90 day production
requirements. These components are sold to our outsource partners at cost when needed for current production.      Net inventory decreased by
$11.4 million to $29.8 million at July 31, 2006 as compared to $41.2 million at July 31, 2005. The decrease was primarily the result of increased sales volumes, lower carrying cost X-Series products and further enhancements to our
outsourcing model.      Capital expenditures totaled $6.7 million in fiscal 2006 as compared to $11.6 million in fiscal 2005. Capital spending
in fiscal 2006 was 3.1% of sales revenue compared to 8.6% in fiscal 2005. Capital expenditures include the purchase of additional capital equipment to support increased applications development and spare parts and equipment to support Fusion HFi,
and X-Series testers. Capital expenditures decreased in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 primarily as a result of our completion of several major Fusion development projects in fiscal 2005 and lower dollar investment to support the X-Series
products. The X-Series manufacturing cost is lower than Fusion HF and HFi, which significantly reduces the capital investment in spare parts and equipment needed to support our X-Series products.      For fiscal years 2006 and 2005, we had no new capital lease financing transactions. In December 2005, we signed a new 10 year lease with a landlord for
56,380 square feet of space in Norwood, Massachusetts. The building was made available in July 2006 at which time we moved 100% of the Westwood, Massachusetts facility to the new facility in Norwood, Massachusetts. The agreement included a
termination of all previous obligations under the Westwood, Massachusetts lease. The Company expects to realize approximately $2.0 million of annual savings from this move of our corporate headquarters.      On June 3, 2005, the Company closed a $60.0 million term loan with a commercial lender. The loan has a five year term. Interest is at the
lender s variable prime rate and is payable monthly. The loan is secured by all assets of the Company located in the United States. As of July 31, 2006, the outstanding principal of the term loan is $59.4 million. The balance of the
principal is payable as follows: (i) two monthly installments of $0.6 million payable August 1, 2006 then nine monthly installments of $0.6 million through May 1, 2007; (ii) twelve monthly installments of $1.2 million, commencing
on June 1, 2007 and ending on May 1, 2008, (iii) twelve monthly installments of $1.5 million, commencing on June 1, 2008 and ending on May 1, 2009, and (iv) twelve monthly installments of $1.7 million, commencing on
June 1, 2009 and ending on May 1, 2010. The Company has a covenant in its loan agreement that requires it to maintain minimum cash and cash equivalents and  
       
   18   

Table of Contents  

marketable securities balances with the lender of no less than the aggregate of the outstanding term loan plus $30.0 million. However, in the event the
Company s cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities are less than this amount, the impact to the Company is the imposition of additional bank fees. The additional fees would not have a material impact on the Company s financial
position or results of operations.      The Company has a second credit facility with another lender for a revolving credit line of $5.0
million. This facility is secured by cash and marketable securities. This line of credit secures obligations of operating leases and existing stand-by letters of credit. The line is fully utilized as of July 31, 2006 securing our obligations
under certain lease agreements and letters of credit, with no additional borrowing availability. The facility expires on August 1, 2007.      In January 2004, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 to register up to $250.0 million of common stock, debt securities and warrants. On February 19, 2004, an offering was closed pursuant to a registration
statement relating to the sale of 8,050,000 shares of common stock at $16.50 per share. The offering included 1,050,000 shares sold as a result of the exercise, in full, by the underwriters of their option to purchase additional shares of common
stock. Gross proceeds from the stock offering totaled approximately $132.8 million. Proceeds to LTX, net of $6.3 million in underwriters  commissions and discounts and other expenses, totaled approximately $126.5 million.      In August 2001, we received net proceeds of $145.2 million from a private placement of 4.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes due August, 2006. Interest on
the 4.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes is payable on February 15 and August 15 of each year, commencing February 15, 2002. The notes are convertible into shares of our common stock at any time prior to the close of business on
August 15, 2006, unless previously redeemed, at a conversion price of $29.04 per share, subject to certain adjustments. The notes are unsecured and subordinated in right of payment in full to all existing and future senior indebtedness of the
Company. Expenses associated with the offering of approximately $4.8 million are being amortized using the straight-line method of depreciation, which approximates the effective interest method, over the term of the notes. During the fourth fiscal
quarter of 2005, the Company repurchased $61.7 million of the outstanding principal balance of the notes for a purchase price of $60.0 million. On November 14, 2005, the Company exchanged $27.2 million in aggregate principal amount of the notes
plus all accrued and unpaid interest on the outstanding notes for an equal principal amount of newly issued 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes (the  New Notes ) due August 2007. Please refer to the Company s current report on Form 8-K
filed on November 14, 2005 for further details. As of July 31, 2006, the outstanding principal balance of the 4.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes was $61.1 million. On August 8, 2006, the Company utilized existing short term cash to
pay the outstanding balance of the $61.1 million 4.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes. In addition, $27.2 million of New Notes are due in August 2007. The Company intends to pay the remaining $27.2 million outstanding principal of New Notes in
August 2007 with cash from operations.      The Company has a defined benefit pension plan for its operation in the United Kingdom. The plan
was constituted in October 1981 to provide defined benefit pension and lump sum benefits, payable on retirement, for employees of LTX(Europe) Limited, ( UK ). The plan has 71 participants of which 3 remain as active employee members and 68
are non-active former employees but for whom benefits are preserved. The plan has been closed to all new members since December 31, 2000. During fiscal 1998 LTX initiated a significant worldwide headcount reduction. This restructuring involved
the termination of 28 of the then 71 UK pension plan participants. Additionally, the Company announced the intent to divest its iPTest business in the UK in August 1998. The Company subsequently sold its iPTest subsidiary in the UK in fiscal 2000.
These actions resulted in the termination of 19 of the then 43 active UK pension plan participants. The Company determined that these actions met the requirements of paragraph 6 of SFAS No. 88, Employers  Accounting for Settlements and
Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and Termination Benefits in fiscal 1998 and resulted in a curtailment of this plan at that date. The plan was under-funded as of July 31, 2006 by $4.6 million. The Company has recorded this
liability as other long-term liabilities of $4.3 million and accrued short-term liabilities of $0.3 million on the consolidated balance sheet as of July 31, 2006. Additionally, the Company has recorded a $0.7 million unrecognized transition
obligation asset, a $0.4 million accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders  equity and an adjustment to opening accumulated deficit of $2.9 million. The adjustment to opening accumulated deficit resulted from the correction of an
error related to the 1998 and 2000 curtailments of this plan. The Company intends to make contributions over a 10 year period in order to reach fully funded status. The Company does not anticipate significant pension expense going forward from
July 31, 2006. Factors that could impact the amount of expense recorded include but are not limited to: 1) the rate of return on the assets invested or 2) the discount rate used to determine the net present value of the future liabilities. The
expected rate of return on assets is 6.0% and the discount rate is 5.1%. Cash payments are projected to be approximately $0.3 million in fiscal 2007 and actual cash payments were $0.2 million in fiscal 2006.      The Company operates in a highly cyclical industry and we may experience, with relatively short notice, significant fluctuations in demand for our
products. This could result in a material effect on our liquidity position. To mitigate the risk, we have completed a substantial and lengthy process of converting our manufacturing process to an outsource model. As  
       
   19   

Table of Contents  

such, we believe we can react to a downturn or a significant upturn much faster than in the past. We believe that our balances of cash and cash equivalents,
cash flows expected to be generated by future operating activities, our access to capital markets for competitively priced instruments and funds available under our credit facilities will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements over the next
twelve to twenty-four months, which includes the payment or restructuring of the outstanding principal of the notes discussed in the preceding paragraph.      The following summarizes LTX s contractual obligations; including interest, net of sub-lease revenues, at July 31, 2006 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flow in
the future periods:       
    The following table contains the major cash requirements as of July 31, 2006:       
     Recent Accounting Pronouncements       Effective August 1, 2005, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share Based Payment 
(SFAS No. 123R). Under SFAS No. 123R, the Company is required to recognize, as expense, the estimated fair value of all share-based payments to employees. In accordance with this standard, the Company has elected to recognize the
compensation cost of all service based awards on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the award. Performance based awards are recognized ratably for each vesting tranche. For the year ended July 31, 2006, the Company recorded
expense of approximately $5.0 million in connection with its share-based payment awards. As of July 31, 2006, there is approximately $5.3 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to share-based payments to employees that will be
recognized over the next 16 quarters. The adoption of SFAS No. 123R had no effect on the consolidated statement of cash flows for the twelve months ended July 31, 2006.      The Company adopted SFAS No. 123R under the modified prospective method. Under this method, the Company recognized compensation cost for all
share-based payments to employees based on the grant date estimate of fair value for those awards, beginning on August 1, 2005. Options granted prior to August 1, 2005 were valued using a binomial Black-Scholes model at the date of grant.
Options granted subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R were valued using a trinomial lattice model.      The Company chose a
trinomial lattice model upon adoption of SFAS No. 123R versus the binomial Black-Scholes method used for the periods prior to the adoptions of SFAS No. 123R for the following reasons: 1) the trinomial lattice supports a changing volatility
assumption with little computation complexity and 2) the trinomial lattice accounts for changing employee behavior as the stock price changes, as behavior is solely represented by a time component. The use of a lattice model captures the observed
pattern of increasing rates of exercise as the stock price increases. The Black-Scholes model does not contain the interaction among economic and behavioral assumptions. The volatility assumption used in our trinomial lattice model uses a term
structure of expected volatilities reflecting a 1-to-10 year average volatility based on historical stock prices. Our volatility assumption is redeveloped quarterly and calculated using the stock price history ending on the last day of the prior
quarter. The forfeiture assumption is based on our historical employee behavior over the last 15 years, which is largely driven by stock price increase.         
   20   

Table of Contents  

   For periods prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the Company had elected to follow Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  (APB 25) and related interpretations in accounting for its employee stock option and stock purchase plans. No stock-based employee compensation is
reflected in net income (loss), as all options granted under those plans had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant.      In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4  ( SFAS
No. 151 ). SFAS No. 151 modifies the accounting for abnormal inventory costs, and the manner in which companies allocate fixed overhead expenses to inventory. SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during annual
periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS No. 151 did not have a material impact on the Company s financial position and results of operations.      In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  ( SFAS
No. 154 ) .  SFAS No. 154 permits early adoption for corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after the date the Statement was issued. The Company evaluated the impact to prior periods related to 1998 and 2000 Pension
Plan curtailments and concluded that it was not appropriate to recognize the cumulative $2.9 million of errors through the current period statement of operations as they primarily relate to periods prior to those included in our fiscal 2006
Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result, the Company recorded this entry as an adjustment to accumulated deficit.      In June 2006, the
FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN No. 48),  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 , which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized
in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN No. 48 clarifies the application of SFAS No. 109 by defining criteria that an individual tax position must meet for any part of the benefit of that position to be
recognized in the financial statements. Additionally, FIN No. 48 provides guidance on the measurement, de-recognition, classification and disclosure of tax positions along with the accounting for the related interest and penalties. The
provisions of FIN No. 48 are effective for the fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, with the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings. We will be required to
adopt FIN No. 48 for our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2007. We are in the process of determining the impact of FIN No. 48 on our Consolidated Financial Statements.      In October 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 158, Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans, (SFAS No. 158), an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R). SFAS No. 158 represents the completion of the first phase in the FASB s postretirement benefits accounting project and
requires an entity to recognize in its statement of financial position an asset for a defined benefit postretirement plan s overfunded status or a liability for a plan s underfunded status, measure a defined benefit postretirement
plan s assets and obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the employer s fiscal year, and recognize changes in the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan in comprehensive income in the year in which
the changes occur. The requirement to recognize the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan and the disclosure requirements are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006. The Company will adopt this requirement
beginning August 1, 2006. The requirement to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the employer s fiscal year-end statement of financial position is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008.
The Company will adopt this requirement for our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2007. We are in the process of determining the impact of SFAS No. 158 on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.       BUSINESS RISKS        This report includes or incorporates forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties and fall within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. You can identify these forward-looking statements by our use of the words  believes,   anticipates,   plans,   expects,   may,   will,   would,   intends, 
 estimates,  and similar expressions, whether in the negative or affirmative. We cannot guarantee that we actually will achieve these plans, intentions or expectations. Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans,
intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements we make. We have included important factors in the cautionary statements, particularly under the heading  Business Risks,  that we believe could cause our actual
results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements that we make. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statement we make.        Our sole market is the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which causes a cyclical impact on our financial results.        We sell capital equipment to companies that design, manufacture, assemble, and test semiconductor devices. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, causing in turn a cyclical impact on our financial results. In
fiscal 2006, the  
       
   21   

Table of Contents  

industry entered a growth period that was reflected in our improving operating results during the year. However, our incoming orders in the fourth quarter
decreased from the third quarter s levels. It is uncertain at this time whether we are entering into a downward trend in new orders as we enter our fiscal 2007. Any failure to expand in cycle upturns to meet customer demand and delivery
requirements or contract in cycle downturns at a pace consistent with cycles in the industry could have an adverse effect on our business.      Any significant downturn in the markets for our customers  semiconductor devices or in general economic conditions would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and would hurt our business. Downturns in the
semiconductor test equipment industry have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess production capacity, accelerated erosion of selling prices and excessive inventory levels. We believe the markets for newer generations of devices,
including system-on-a-chip ( SOC ), will also experience similar characteristics. Our market is also characterized by rapid technological change and changes in customer demand. In the past, we have experienced delays in commitments, delays
in collecting accounts receivable and significant declines in demand for our products during these downturns, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or exceed our current level of sales.      Any significant downturn in the markets for our customers  semiconductor devices or in general economic conditions would likely result in a
reduction in demand for our products and would hurt our business. From the third quarter of fiscal 2001 through the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2004, our revenue and operating results were negatively impacted by a sudden and severe downturn
in the semiconductor industry. Downturns in the semiconductor test equipment industry have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess production capacity, accelerated erosion of selling prices and excessive inventory levels. We believe
the markets for newer generations of devices, including system-on-a-chip ( SOC ), will also experience similar characteristics. Our market is also characterized by rapid technological change and changes in customer demand. In the past, we
have experienced delays in commitments, delays in collecting accounts receivable and significant declines in demand for our products during these downturns, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or exceed our current level of
sales.      Additionally, as a capital equipment provider, our revenue is driven by the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of
our customers who often delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to variations in their businesses. Because a high proportion of our costs are fixed, we are limited in our ability to reduce expenses and inventory purchases quickly in response to
decreases in orders and revenues. In a contraction, we may not be able to reduce our significant fixed costs, such as continued investment in research and development and capital equipment requirements and materials purchases from our suppliers.
       The market for semiconductor test equipment is highly concentrated, and we have limited opportunities to sell our products.
       The semiconductor industry is highly concentrated, and a small number of semiconductor device manufacturers and contract assemblers
account for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor test equipment generally, including our test equipment. Sales to Texas Instruments accounted for 56% of our net sales in fiscal 2006 and 47% of our net sales in fiscal 2005. Sales
to our ten largest customers accounted for 82.1% of revenues in fiscal year 2006 and 77.2% in fiscal year 2005. Our customers may cancel orders with few or no penalties. If a major customer reduces orders for any reason, our revenues, operating
results, and financial condition will be affected.      Our ability to increase our sales will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders
from new customers. Semiconductor manufacturers select a particular vendor s test system for testing the manufacturer s new generations of devices and make substantial investments to develop related test program software and interfaces.
Once a manufacturer has selected one test system vendor for a generation of devices, that manufacturer is more likely to purchase test systems from that vendor for that generation of devices, and, possibly, subsequent generations of devices as well.
Therefore, the opportunities to obtain orders from new customers may be limited.        Our sales and operating results have fluctuated
significantly from period to period, including from one quarter to another, and they may continue to do so.        Our quarterly and
annual operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could adversely affect sales or profitability or lead to significant variability in our operating results or our stock price. This may be caused by a combination of factors,
including the following:       

sales of a limited number of test systems account for a substantial portion of our net sales in any particular fiscal quarter, and a small number of transactions could therefore
have a significant impact;           
   22   

Table of Contents  

order cancellations by customers;         

lower gross margins in any particular period due to changes in:         

our product mix,         

the configurations of test systems sold,         

the customers to whom we sell these systems, or         

volume.         

a long sales cycle, due to the high selling price of our test systems, the significant investment made by our customers, and the time required to incorporate our systems into our
customers  design or manufacturing process; and         

changes in the timing of product orders due to:         

unexpected delays in the introduction of products by our customers,         

shorter than expected lifecycles of our customers  semiconductor devices,         

uncertain market acceptance of products developed by our customers, or         

our own research and development.        We cannot predict the
impact of these and other factors on our sales and operating results in any future period. Results of operations in any period, therefore, should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Because of this
difficulty in predicting future performance, our operating results may fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors in some future quarter or quarters. Our failure to meet these expectations would likely adversely affect the market
price of our common stock.      A substantial amount of the shipments of our test systems for a particular quarter occur late in the quarter.
Our shipment pattern exposes us to significant risks in the event of problems during the complex process of final integration, test and acceptance prior to shipment. If we were to experience problems of this type late in our quarter, shipments could
be delayed and our operating results could fall below expectations.        We depend on Jabil Circuit to produce and test our family of
Fusion products, and any failures or other problems at or with Jabil could cause us to lose customers and revenues.        We have
selected Jabil Circuit, Inc. to manufacture our Fusion test systems. If for any reason Jabil cannot provide us with these products and services in a timely fashion, or at all, whether due to labor shortage, slow down or stoppage, deteriorating
financial or business conditions or any other reason, we would not be able to sell or ship our Fusion family of products to our customers. All of the products Jabil tests and assembles for us are assembled in one facility in Massachusetts. If this
facility were to become unable to meet our production requirements, transitioning assembly to an alternative Jabil facility could result it production delays of several weeks or more. We have no written supply agreement with Jabil. We also may be
unable to engage alternative production and testing services on a timely basis or upon terms favorable to us, if at all. This relationship with Jabil may not result in a reduction of our fixed expenses.      We also may be unable to engage alternative production and testing services on a timely basis or upon terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are
required for any reason to seek a new manufacturer of our test systems, an alternate manufacturer may not be available and, in any event, transitioning to a new manufacturer would require a significant lead time of six months or more and would
involve substantial expense and disruption of our business. Our test systems are highly sophisticated and complex capital equipment, with many custom components, and require specific technical know-how and expertise. These factors could make it more
difficult for us to find a new manufacturer of our test systems if our relationship with Jabil is terminated for any reason, which would cause us to lose revenues and customers.        Our dependence on subcontractors and sole source suppliers may prevent us from delivering an acceptable product on a timely basis.
       We rely on subcontractors to manufacture Fusion and many of the components and subassemblies for our products, and we rely on sole
source suppliers for certain components. We may be required to qualify new or additional subcontractors and  
       
   23   

Table of Contents  

suppliers due to capacity constraints, competitive or quality concerns or other risks that may arise, including a result of a change in control of, or
deterioration in the financial condition of, a supplier or subcontractor. The process of qualifying subcontractors and suppliers is a lengthy process. Our reliance on subcontractors gives us less control over the manufacturing process and exposes us
to significant risks, especially inadequate capacity, late delivery, substandard quality, and high costs. In addition, the manufacture of certain of these components and subassemblies is an extremely complex process. If a supplier became unable to
provide parts in the volumes needed or at an acceptable price, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements from alternative sources of supply, or manufacture such components internally. The failure to qualify acceptable
replacements quickly would delay the manufacturing   delivery of our products, which could cause us to lose revenues and customers.      We are dependent on a semiconductor device manufacturer, Maxtek Components as a sole source supplier of components manufactured in accordance with our proprietary design and specifications. We have no written supply agreement with this sole
source supplier and purchase our custom components through individual purchase orders.        Future acquisitions may be difficult to
integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention.        We have in the past, and may in the
future, seek to acquire or invest in additional complementary businesses, products, technologies or engineers. For example, in June 2003, we completed our acquisition of StepTech, Inc. We may have to issue debt or equity securities to pay for future
acquisitions, which could be dilutive to then current stockholders. We have also incurred and may continue to incur certain liabilities or other expenses in connection with acquisitions, which could continue to materially adversely affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations.      Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and
no assurance can be given that future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our past and future acquisitions may involve many risks, including:       

difficulties in managing our growth following acquisitions;         

difficulties in the integration of the acquired personnel, operations, technologies, products and systems of the acquired companies;         

uncertainties concerning the intellectual property rights we purport to acquire;         

unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisitions;         

diversion of managements  attention from other business concerns;         

adverse effects on our existing business relationships with our or our acquired companies  customers;         

potential difficulties in completing projects associated with purchased in process research and development; and         

inability to retain employees of acquired companies.        Any
of the events described in the foregoing paragraphs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the price of our common stock to decline.        We may not be able to deliver custom hardware options and software applications to satisfy specific customer needs in a timely manner.
       We must develop and deliver customized hardware and software to meet our customers  specific test requirements. Our test
equipment may fail to meet our customers  technical or cost requirements and may be replaced by competitive equipment or an alternative technology solution. Our inability to provide a test system that meets requested performance criteria when
required by a device manufacturer would severely damage our reputation with that customer. This loss of reputation may make it substantially more difficult for us to sell test systems to that manufacturer for a number of years. We have, in the past,
experienced delays in introducing some of our products and enhancements.        Our dependence on international sales and non-U.S.
suppliers involves significant risk.        International sales have constituted a significant portion of our revenues in recent years,
and we expect that this composition will continue. International sales accounted for 59% of our revenues for fiscal year 2006 and 69% of our revenues for fiscal year 2005. In addition, we rely on non-U.S. suppliers for several components of the
equipment we sell. As  
       
   24   

Table of Contents  

a result, a major part of our revenues and the ability to manufacture our products are subject to the risks associated with international commerce. A
reduction in revenues or a disruption or increase in the cost of our manufacturing materials could hurt our operating results. These international relationships make us particularly sensitive to changes in the countries from which we derive sales
and obtain supplies. International sales and our relationships with suppliers may be hurt by many factors, including:       

changes in law or policy resulting in burdensome government controls, tariffs, restrictions, embargoes or export license requirements;         

political and economic instability in our target international markets;         

longer payment cycles common in foreign markets;         

difficulties of staffing and managing our international operations;         

less favorable foreign intellectual property laws making it harder to protect our technology from appropriation by competitors; and         

difficulties collecting our accounts receivable because of the distance and different legal rules.        In the past, we have incurred expenses to meet new regulatory requirements in Europe, experienced periodic difficulties in obtaining timely payment from
non-U.S. customers, and been affected by economic conditions in several Asian countries. Our foreign sales are typically invoiced and collected in U.S. dollars. A strengthening in the dollar relative to the currencies of those countries where we do
business would increase the prices of our products as stated in those currencies and could hurt our sales in those countries. Significant fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could cause us to lower our
prices and thus reduce our profitability. These fluctuations could also cause prospective customers to push out or delay orders because of the increased relative cost of our products. In the past, there have been significant fluctuations in the
exchange rates between the dollar and the currencies of countries in which we do business. While we have not entered into significant foreign currency hedging arrangements, we may do so in the future. If we do enter into foreign currency hedging
arrangements, they may not be effective.        Our market is highly competitive, and we have limited resources to compete.
       The test equipment industry is highly competitive in all areas of the world. Many other domestic and foreign companies participate
in the markets for each of our products, and the industry is highly competitive. Our competitors in the market for semiconductor test equipment include Advantest, Credence Systems, Eagle Test Systems, Teradyne and Verigy. Certain of these major
competitors have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer support capabilities.      We expect our competitors to enhance their current products and to introduce new products with comparable or better price and performance. The introduction of competing products could hurt sales of our current and
future products. In addition, new competitors, including semiconductor manufacturers themselves, may offer new testing technologies, which may in turn reduce the value of our product lines. Increased competition could lead to intensified price-based
competition, which would hurt our business and results of operations. Unless we are able to invest significant financial resources in developing products and maintaining customer support centers worldwide, we may not be able to compete effectively.
       Development of our products requires significant lead-time, and we may fail to correctly anticipate the technical needs of our
customers.        Our customers make decisions regarding purchases of our test equipment while their devices are still in development. Our
test systems are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their new devices. We therefore must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers  devices, requiring us to make
significant capital investments to develop new test equipment for our customers well before their devices are introduced. If our customers fail to introduce their devices in a timely manner or the market does not accept their devices, we may not
recover our capital investment through sales in significant volume. In addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not generate revenue
in excess of the costs of development, and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction of products embodying new technologies or features by our competitors. Furthermore, if we were to make
announcements of product delays, or if our competitors were to make announcements of new test systems, these announcements could cause our customers to defer or forego purchases of our existing test systems, which would also hurt our business.
        
   25   

Table of Contents  

     Our success depends on attracting and retaining key personnel.        Our success will depend substantially upon the continued service of our executive officers and key personnel, none of whom are bound by an employment or
non-competition agreement. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managers and technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for such specialized personnel is intense, and it may
become more difficult for us to hire or retain them. Our volatile business cycles only aggravate this problem. Our layoffs in any industry downturn could make it more difficult for us to hire or retain qualified personnel. Our business, financial
condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current positions, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled
employees.        We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights.        Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain intellectual property rights and licenses and to preserve other intellectual property rights covering
our products and development and testing tools. To that end, we have obtained certain domestic patents and may continue to seek patents on our inventions when appropriate. We have also obtained certain trademark registrations. To date, we have not
sought patent protection in any countries other than the United States, which may impair our ability to protect our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions. The process of seeking intellectual property protection can be time consuming and
expensive. We cannot ensure that:       

patents will issue from currently pending or future applications;         

our existing patents or any new patents will be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us;         

foreign intellectual property laws will protect our intellectual property rights; or         

others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our technology.        If we do not successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. We
also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and confidentiality provisions in agreements with employees and consultants to protect our intellectual property. Other parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we may
not be able to adequately enforce our rights against these people.        Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual
property, and we could suffer significant litigation costs, licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products.        Intellectual property rights are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may be unknowingly infringing on the intellectual property rights of others and may be liable for that infringement, which could result in
significant liability for us. If we do infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be forced to either seek a license to intellectual property rights of others or alter our products so that they no longer infringe the intellectual
property rights of others. A license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly or impractical.      We are responsible for any patent litigation costs. If we were to become involved in a dispute regarding intellectual property, whether ours or that of
another company, we may have to participate in legal proceedings. These types of proceedings may be costly and time consuming for us, even if we eventually prevail. If we do not prevail, we might be forced to pay significant damages, obtain
licenses, modify our products or processes, stop making products or stop using processes.        Our stock price is volatile.
       In the twelve-month period ending on July 31, 2006, our stock price ranged from a low of $3.29 to a high of $7.65. The price
of our common stock has been and likely will continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of events and factors, such as:       

quarterly variations in operating results;         

variances of our quarterly results of operations from securities analyst estimates;         

changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;         

announcements of technological innovations, new products, or strategic alliances; and           
   26   

Table of Contents  

news reports relating to trends in our markets.        In
addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for semiconductor-related companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the companies
affected by these fluctuations. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.        We have substantial indebtedness.        We have $27.2 million principal amount of 4.25% Convertible
Subordinated Notes (the  Notes ) due August 2007, $61.1 million principle amount of 4.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes due August 2006, (which were paid in full on August 8, 2006), as well as $59.4 million in principal outstanding
under a commercial loan. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The level of indebtedness, among other things, could       

make it difficult for us to make payments on our debt and other obligations;         

make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes;     

require the dedication of a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to service for indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes,
including capital expenditures;         

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, its business and the industries in which we compete;         

place us at a possible competitive disadvantage with respect to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resource; and     

make us more vulnerable in the event of a further downturn in our business.        There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations, including our obligations under the Notes.        We may not be able to satisfy a change in control offer.        The indenture governing the Notes
contains provisions that apply to a change in control of LTX. If someone triggers a fundamental change as defined in the indenture, we may be required to offer to purchase the Notes with cash. If we have to make that offer, we cannot be sure that we
will have enough funds to pay for all the Notes that the holders could tender.        We may not be able to pay our debt and other
obligations.        If our cash flow is inadequate to meet our obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems. One of our
credit facilities expired in April 2006, and was not renewed by us as we felt we had sufficient funds to pay off our debt when due. The $61.1 million of Convertible Subordinated Notes due in August 2006 was paid on August 8, 2006, reducing our
cash and cash equivalents. In addition, we have $27.2 million principal amount of 4.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes due August 2007 and monthly principal and interest payments through May 2010 related to our term loan. If we are unable to
generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payment of our Notes, or certain of our other obligations, we would be in default under the terms thereof, which could permit the holders of those obligations to
accelerate their maturity and also could cause default under future indebtedness we may incur. Any such default could have material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial position and operating results. In addition, we may not be able
to repay amounts due in respect of our Notes, or certain of our other obligations, if payment of those obligations were to be accelerated following the occurrence of any other event of default as defined in the instruments creating those
obligations. Moreover, we may not have sufficient funds or be able to arrange for financing to pay the principal amount of our Notes at their maturity.        We may need additional financing, which could be difficult to obtain.        We expect that our
existing cash and marketable securities, and borrowings from available bank financings, will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements to fund operations and expected capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. In the event, we may need to
raise additional funds, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain such additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. Further, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity
securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock.  
       
   27   

Table of Contents  

Future financings may place restrictions on how we operate our business. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able
to develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures, which could seriously harm our business.       

Item 7A.   
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk         Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit-risk consist principally of investments in cash equivalents, short-term investments and trade receivables. We place our investments with high-quality financial
institutions, limit the amount of credit exposure to any one institution and have established investment guidelines relative to diversification and maturities designed to maintain safety and liquidity.      Our primary exposures to market risks include fluctuations in interest rates on our short-term and long-term debt of approximately $59.4 million as of
July 31, 2006, and in foreign currency exchange rates. We are subject to interest rate risk on our short-term and long-term borrowings under our credit and loan facilities. Our short-term and long-term bank debt bears interest at the
lender s variable prime rate. Long-term debt interest rates are fixed for the term of the Notes.       Foreign Currency Exchange Risk       Operating in international markets involves exposure to movements in currency exchange rates. Currency exchange rate movements typically also reflect
economic growth, inflation, interest rates, government actions and other factors. We transact business in various foreign currencies and, accordingly, we are subject to exposure from adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. As currency
exchange rates fluctuate, translation of the statements of operations of our international businesses into U.S. dollars may affect year-over-year comparability and could cause us to adjust our financing and operating strategies. To date, the effect
of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on revenues and operating expenses have not been material. Substantially all of our revenues are invoiced and collected in U.S. dollars. Our trade receivables result primarily from sales to semiconductor
manufacturers located in North America, Japan, the Pacific Rim and Europe. In fiscal 2006, our revenues derived from sales outside the United States constituted 59% of our total revenues. Accounts receivable in currencies other than U.S. dollars
comprise 7.6% of the outstanding accounts receivable trade balance at July 31, 2006. Receivables are from major corporations or are supported by letters of credit. We maintain reserves for potential credit losses and such losses have been
immaterial. Accounts payable in currencies other than U.S. dollars comprise 5.9% of the outstanding accounts payable balance at July 31, 2006.      Based on a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates, the potential losses in future earnings, fair value of risk-sensitive financial instruments, and cash flows are immaterial, although the actual effects may
differ materially from the hypothetical analysis.       Interest Rate Risk       The Company s Convertible Subordinated Notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.25%, and therefore changes in interest rates do not impact the Company s interest expense on this debt. However, the
Company s term loan bears interest at the lender s variable prime rate. The Company may also, from time to time, have other outstanding short-term and long-term borrowings with variable interest rates. The Company expects that a 1% change
in interest rates would affect the Company s interest expense by $0.6 million per year.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

Item 8.   
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data          
  LTX CORPORATION        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS        (In thousands, except share data)        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   
     
   29   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME        (In thousands, except per share data)        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   
     
   30   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY        (In thousands, except share data)        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   
     
   31   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        (In thousands)        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   
     
   32   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        1. THE COMPANY       LTX Corporation ( LTX 
or the  Company ) designs, manufactures, and markets automatic semiconductor test equipment. Semiconductor designers and manufacturers worldwide use semiconductor test equipment to test devices at different stages during the manufacturing
process. These devices are incorporated in a wide range of products, including mobile internet equipment such as wireless access points and interfaces, broadband access products such as cable modems and DSL modems, personal communication products
such as cell phones and personal digital assistants, consumer products such as televisions, videogame systems, digital cameras and automobile electronics, and for power management in portable and automotive electronics. The Company also sells
hardware and software support and maintenance services for its test systems. The Company is headquartered, and has development and manufacturing facilities, in Norwood, Massachusetts, a development facility in San Jose, California, and worldwide
sales and service facilities to support its customer base.       2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES        Basis of Presentation       The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant inter-company transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain reclassifications have been made to previously reported
financial data to conform to the 2006 presentation.       Preparation of Financial Statements and Use of Estimates       The accompanying financial statements have been prepared by the Company, and reflect all adjustments, which, in the opinion of management, are necessary
for fair presentation. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting periods.       Foreign Currency Translation       The financial statements of the Company s foreign subsidiaries are
translated in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 52,  Foreign Currency Translation . The Company s functional currency is the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, the Company s foreign
subsidiaries translate monetary assets and liabilities at year-end exchange rates while non-monetary items are translated at historical rates. Income and expense accounts are translated at the average rates in effect during the year, except for
sales, cost of sales and depreciation, which are primarily translated at historical rates. Net realized gains or losses resulting from foreign currency re-measurement and transaction gains or losses were a loss of $258,000, a gain of $17,000 and a
loss of $234,000 in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Transaction gains and losses are included in the consolidated results of operations.       Revenue Recognition       The Company recognizes revenue based on guidance provided in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin
No. 104,  Revenue Recognition , (SAB 104). The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the seller s price is fixed or determinable and
collectibility is reasonably assured.      Revenue related to equipment sales is recognized when: (a) we have a written sales agreement;
(b) delivery has occurred; (c) the price is fixed or determinable; (d) collectibility is reasonably assured; (e) the product delivered is standard product with historically demonstrated acceptance; and (f) there is no unique
customer acceptance provision or payment tied to acceptance or an undelivered element significant to the functionality of the system. Generally, payment terms are net 30 days from shipment. Certain sales include payment terms tied to customer
acceptance. If a portion of the payment is linked to product acceptance, which is 20% or less, the revenue is deferred on only the percentage holdback until payment is received or written evidence of acceptance is delivered to the Company. If the
portion of the holdback is greater than 20%, the full value of the equipment is deferred until payment is received or written evidence of acceptance is delivered to the Company. When sales to a customer involve multiple elements, revenue is
recognized on the delivered element provided that (1) the undelivered element is a proven technology, (2) there is a history of acceptance on the product with the customer, (3) the undelivered element is not essential to the
customer s application. (4) the delivered item(s) has value to the customer on a  
       
   33   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         
  
 stand-alone basis, (5) objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered item(s) exists, (6) if the arrangement included a
general right of return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in the control of the Company, and (7) if objective and reliable evidence of fair value
exists for all units of accounting in the arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated based on the relative fair values of each unit of accounting. If the fair value of a delivered item is unknown, but the fair value, of undelivered
items are known, the residual method is used for allocating arrangement consideration. Revenue related to spare parts is recognized on shipment. Revenue related to maintenance and service contracts is recognized ratably over the duration of the
contracts.       Allowance for Doubtful Accounts       An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained for potential credit losses based upon assessment of the expected collectibility of all accounts receivable. The allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed periodically to assess the
adequacy of the allowances. In any circumstances in which we are aware of a customer s inability to meet its financial obligations, we take a certain percentage of the accounts receivable balance as an allowance, which is based on the age of
the receivables, the circumstances surrounding the customer s financial situation and our historical experience. If circumstances change, and the financial condition of our customers were adversely affected resulting in their inability to meet
their financial obligations to us, we may need to record additional allowances.       Engineering and Product Development Costs       The Company expenses all engineering, research and development costs as incurred. Expenses subject to capitalization in accordance with the SFAS
No. 86,  Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software To Be Sold, Leased or Otherwise Marketed , relating to certain software development costs, were insignificant.       Shipping and Handling Costs       Shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales in the
consolidated statements of operations. Shipping and handling costs were $0.9 million, $0.8 million, and $1.7 million for fiscal years July 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. These costs, when included in the sales price charged for
products, are recognized in net sales.       Income Taxes       In accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes , the Company recognizes deferred income taxes based on the expected future tax consequences of differences between the financial statement
bases and the tax bases of assets and liabilities, calculated using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to be reflected in the tax return. Research and development tax credits are recognized for financial
reporting purposes to the extent that they can be used to reduce the tax provision.       Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation       The Company has five active stock option plans: the 2004 Stock Plan ( 2004 Plan ), the 2001 Stock Plan ( 2001 Plan ), the 1999 Stock
Plan ( 1999 Plan ), the 1995 LTX (Europe) Ltd. Approved Stock Option Plan ( U.K. Plan ) and, in addition, the Company assumed the StepTech, Inc. Stock Option Plan (the  STI 2000 Plan ) as part of its acquisition of
StepTech. The STI 2000 Plan, 2004 Plan, 2001 Plan, 1999 Plan, and the U.K. Plan provide for the granting of options to employees to purchase shares of common stock at not less than 100% of the fair market value at the date of grant. The 2004 Plan,
2001 Plan and 1999 Plan also provide for the granting of options to an employee, director or consultant of the Company or its subsidiaries to purchase shares of common stock at prices to be determined by the Board of Directors and they allow both
restricted stock awards and stock awards. Options under the plans are exercisable over vesting periods, which typically have been three to four years from the date of grant. The general term of our stock options is 10 years. Our policy of issuing
shares is to either buy shares in the open market or issue new shares. Our general practice has been to issue new shares. In fiscal 2005, the Company granted 533,750 options tied to certain performance milestones. As of July 31, 2006, 75% of
these options have vested as they have met the performance milestones. We are expensing these options based on an accelerated vesting schedule over the performance period. The remaining 25% will vest in 4 years regardless of the milestone being
achieved. During the quarter ended January 31, 2006, the Company granted 983,600 restricted stock units (RSUs). Of the 983,600 RSUs, vesting for 742,600 is tied to certain profit break-even milestones for executives. The first milestone was
achieved May 16, 2006, resulting in 185,650 shares vesting on May 16, 2006. The remaining executive RSUs will vest annually over the next three years unless another performance milestone is achieved. The remaining 241,000 RSUs are  
       
   34   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         
  
 service vested for key employees over a four year period, including 60,250 shares that vested on May 16, 2006, when the Company achieved a profit
break-even milestone. The remaining shares will vest annually over the next three years, unless another performance milestone is achieved.      Effective August 1, 2005, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123R). Under SFAS No. 123R, the Company is required to recognize,
as expense, the estimated fair value of all share based payments to employees. In accordance with this standard, the Company has elected to recognize the compensation cost of all service based awards on a straight-line basis over the vesting period
of the award. Performance based awards are recognized ratably for each vesting tranche. For the year ended July 31, 2006 the Company recorded expense of approximately $5.0 million, of which $0.3 million is recorded in restructuring charges, in
connection with its share-based payment awards. As of July 31, 2006, there is approximately $5.3 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to share based payments to employees that will be recognized over the next 16 quarters. The
adoption of SFAS No. 123R did not have a significant effect on the consolidated statement of cash flows for the twelve months ended July 31, 2006.      The Company adopted SFAS No. 123R under the modified prospective method. Under this method, the Company recognized compensation cost for all share-based payments to employees based on the grant date estimate of
fair value for those awards, beginning on August 1, 2005. Options granted prior to August 1, 2005 were valued using a binomial Black-Scholes model at the date of grant. Options granted subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R were
valued using a trinomial lattice model.      The Company chose a trinomial lattice model upon adoption of SFAS No. 123R versus the
binomial Black-Scholes method used for the periods prior to the adoptions of SFAS No. 123R for the following reasons: 1) the trinomial lattice supports a changing volatility assumption with little computation complexity and 2) the trinomial
lattice accounts for changing employee behavior as the stock price changes, as behavior is solely represented by a time component. The use of a lattice model captures the observed pattern of increasing rates of exercise as the stock price increases.
The Black-Scholes model does not contain the interaction among economic and behavioral assumptions. The volatility assumption used in our trinomial lattice model uses a term structure of expected volatilities reflecting a 1-to-10 year average
volatility based on historical stock prices. Our volatility assumption is redeveloped quarterly and calculated using the stock price history ending on the last day of the prior quarter. The forfeiture assumption is based on our historical employee
behavior over the last 15 years, which is largely driven by stock price increase.      For periods prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R,
the Company had elected to follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  (APB 25) and related interpretations in accounting for its employee stock option and stock purchase plans.
No stock-based employee compensation is reflected in net income (loss), as all options granted under those plans had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant.      The following table illustrates the effect on net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share if the Company had applied the fair value recognition
provision of SFAS No. 123 to stock-based employee compensation:       
       
   35   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         
   Weighted-average assumptions used in determining fair value of option grants:       

(1)  
  Assumptions used in trinomial lattice option-pricing model valuation.         

(2)  
  Assumptions used in Black-Scholes valuation.        The
Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, option-pricing models require the input of highly subjective
assumptions. Because the Company s employee stock options have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in
management s opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its employee stock options.       Product Warranty Costs       Our products are sold with warranty provisions that require us to remedy deficiencies in quality or
performance of our products over a specified period of time at no cost to our customers. Our policy is to establish warranty reserves at levels that represent our estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements at
the time that revenue is recognized.      The following table shows the change in the product warranty liability, as required by FASB
Interpretation No. (FIN) 45,  Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others , for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2006 and 2005:       
     Comprehensive Income       Comprehensive income (loss) is comprised of two components, net income (loss) and other comprehensive income (loss). Other comprehensive income (loss) consists of unrealized gains and losses on the Company s
marketable securities and the effects of the minimum pension liability.         
   36   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         
   The following table shows the cumulative components of comprehensive income (loss) for the fiscal years ended
July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:       
     Net Income (Loss) per Share       Basic net income (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted income (loss) per
common share reflects the maximum dilution that would have resulted from the assumed exercise and share repurchase related to dilutive stock options and is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares and
all dilutive securities outstanding.      Reconciliation between basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share is as follows:       
    Options to purchase 7,146,337, 8,077,136, and 4,224,203 of common stock were outstanding at
July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 respectively, but were not included in the calculation of diluted shares because the effect of including the options would have been anti-dilutive.       Cash and Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities       The Company considers all highly liquid
investments that are readily convertible to cash and that have original maturity dates of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of repurchase agreements and commercial paper. Marketable securities
consist primarily of debt securities that are classified as available-for-sale, in accordance with the SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities  ( SFAS No. 115 ). Securities
available for sale include corporate and governmental obligations with various contractual maturity dates some of which are greater than one year. The Company considers the securities to be liquid and convertible to cash within 30 days. The Company
has the ability and intent, if necessary, to liquidate any security that the Company holds to fund operations over the next twelve months and as such has classified these securities as short-term. Governmental obligations include U.S. Government,
State, Municipal and Federal Agency securities.      The market value and maturities of the Company s marketable securities are as
follows:       
       
   37   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         
   The market value and amortized cost of marketable securities are as follows:       
    Gross unrealized losses were $1.6 million in fiscal 2006 and $1.6 million in fiscal 2005. The
realized profits, losses and interest are included in the investment income in the Statements of Operations. Unrealized gains and losses are reflected as a separate component of comprehensive income and are included in Stockholders  Equity. The
gross unrealized losses were primarily a result of rising interest rates. The Company evaluates its portfolio for impairment based on certain factors including, credit quality, structure of the security and the ability to hold the security to
maturity.      The following table contains marketable securities and related unrealized losses as of July 31, 2006:       
    The following interest income and realized gains and losses from sales of marketable securities
are as follows:       
    At July 31, 2006, marketable securities of approximately $1.0 million were restricted from
withdrawal. These assets served as collateral supporting letters of credit issued to a financial institution for leasing equipment.       Fair Value of
Financial Instruments       SFAS No. 107,  Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments , requires that disclosure be
made of estimates of the fair value of financial instruments. The carrying amounts of certain of the Company s financial instruments, including cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other accrued liabilities approximate
fair value due to their short maturities. In accordance with SFAS No. 115, marketable securities classified as available for sale are all debt securities and are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. The fair value of the
Company s notes payable and long-term liabilities is estimated based on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on current rates offered to the Company for debt of the same remaining maturities.         
   38   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         
   As of July 31, 2006, the estimated fair value of the Company s convertible subordinated
notes was approximately $85.9 million compared to the carrying value of $88.3 million. The estimated fair value of the convertible subordinated notes is based on the quoted market price of the notes on July 31, 2006. The book value of the term
loan approximates fair value.       Concentration of Credit Risk       Revenue from our top ten customers accounted for 82%, 77%, and 88% of total revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Accounts receivable from these customers amounted to approximately $26.2 million and
$15.1 million at July 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Sales to customers outside the United States were $127.6 million, or 59% of net sales in fiscal 2006, $93.3 million, or 69% of net sales in fiscal 2005, $168.9 million, or 66% of net sales,
in fiscal 2004.      Financial instruments, which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk, are cash equivalents,
marketable securities and accounts receivable. All of the Company s cash equivalents and marketable securities are maintained by major financial institutions. Concentration of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable is limited to
certain customers to whom the Company makes substantial sales. To reduce risk, the Company routinely assesses the financial strength of its customers. The Company does not require collateral, although the Company does obtain a letter of credit on
sales to certain foreign customers. Write-offs related to accounts receivable have been within management s expectations.       Inventories
      Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, determined on the first-in, first-out ( FIFO ) method, and include
materials, labor and manufacturing overhead. The components of inventories are as follows:       
    Our policy is to establish inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest our inventory may
be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products or market conditions. We regularly evaluate the ability to realize the value of our inventory based on a combination of factors
including the following: forecasted sales or usage, estimated product end of life dates, estimated current and future market value and new product introductions. Purchasing and alternative usage options are also explored to mitigate inventory
exposure. When recorded, our reserves are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventory to its net realizable value. As of July 31, 2006 and 2005, our inventory is stated net of inventory reserves of $46.5 million and $99.6 million,
respectively. If actual demand for our products deteriorates or market conditions are less favorable than those that we project, additional inventory reserves may be required. Such reserves are not reversed until the related inventory is sold or
otherwise disposed. During fiscal year 2006, the Company utilized $55.1 million of reserves related to the disposal or sale of previously reserved items.      Of the $29.8 million inventory balance at July 31, 2006, $7.4 million consists of  last time buy  custom components for Fusion HFi, $15.9 million consists of materials and components to support current
requirements for Fusion HFi and X-Series, $5.1 million consists of evaluation inventory at customers and $1.4 million consists of inventory held in deferred revenue pending product acceptance. If actual demand for our products deteriorates or market
conditions are less favorable than those that we project, additional inventory reserves may be required.      In the first quarter of fiscal
2005, the Company s major customers reduced their forecasts for capital equipment purchases, which resulted in a sudden and substantial drop in revenues and orders for the Company. These conditions continued into its second quarter of fiscal
2005. As a result of the shorter than expected upturn in business conditions, and the completion of the Company s transition to its next generation Fusion, the Company deemed it appropriate to make an adjustment to the inventory valuation and
recorded a $47.5 million excess and obsolete inventory provision, primarily related to the Fusion HF product line, in fiscal 2005. Inventory reserves establish a new cost basis for inventory and such reserves are not reversed until the related
inventory is sold or otherwise disposed. For the twelve months ended July 31, 2006, the Company recorded $2.5 million in sales of previously reserved items which represents the gross cash received from the  
       
   39   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         
  
 customer. The net incremental gross margin and net income effect of these transactions of $1.1 million for the year ended July 31, 2006, $1.4 million
for fiscal 2005, and $0.0 million for fiscal 2004 did not have a material impact on operating margins and the results.       Property and Equipment
      Property and equipment is recorded at cost. The Company provides for depreciation and amortization on the straight-line method. Charges
are made to operating expenses in amounts that are sufficient to amortize the cost of the assets over their estimated useful lives. Machinery, equipment and internal manufactured systems include spare parts used for service and LTX test systems used
for testing components, engineering and applications development. Internally manufactured equipment is recorded at cost and depreciated over 3 to 7 years. Repairs and maintenance costs that do not extend the lives of property and equipment are
expensed as incurred. Property and equipment are summarized as follows:       
     Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Other Than Goodwill       On an on-going basis, management reviews the value and period of amortization or depreciation of long-lived assets. In accordance with SFAS No. 144,
 Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets , the Company reviews whether impairment losses exist on long-lived assets when indicators of impairment are present. During this review, the Company reevaluates the significant
assumptions used in determining the original cost of long-lived assets. Although the assumptions may vary, they generally include revenue growth, operating results, cash flows and other indicators of value. Management then determines whether there
has been a permanent impairment of the value of long-lived assets based upon events or circumstances that have occurred since acquisition. The extent of the impairment amount recognized is based upon a determination of the impaired asset s fair
value.       Goodwill and Other Intangibles       The Company has adopted the provisions of Statement No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , which requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized. Intangible assets with a
definitive useful life are amortized over their estimated useful life. Assets recorded in these categories are tested for impairment at least annually or when a change in circumstances may result in future impairment. Intangible assets are recorded
at historical cost. Intangible assets acquired in an acquisition, including purchased research and development, are recorded under the purchase method of accounting. Assets acquired in an acquisition are recorded at their estimated fair values at
the date of acquisition. Management uses a discounted cash flow analysis which requires that certain assumptions and estimates be made regarding industry economic factors and future profitability of the acquired business to assess the need for an
impairment charge. If the carrying value of the asset is in excess of the present value of the expected future cash flows, the carrying value is written down to fair value in the period identified.      Goodwill totaling $14.8 million at July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, represents the excess of acquisition costs over the estimated fair value of
the net assets acquired from StepTech, Inc. ( StepTech ) on June 10, 2003.         
   40   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         
   Other intangible assets consisted of core technology and amounted to the following at:       
    Amortization expense for each of the years ended July 31, 2006 and 2005 was $700,000. The
estimated aggregate amortization expense for the next year is $700,000.       Deferred Gain on Leased Equipment  
     The Company has entered into certain equipment sale/leaseback transactions to finance the cost of new test equipment. The cash proceeds
from these leases were based on the fair market value of the equipment and these leases qualify as operating leases in accordance with SFAS No. 13. Cash proceeds received in excess of the cost of the equipment are recorded as deferred gain in
accordance with SFAS Nos. 13 and 28 and amortized over the life of the lease. As of July 31, 2006 we have $0.6 million of deferred gain remaining to be recognized in fiscal 2007 and 2008.       Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In November 2004,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4  ( SFAS No. 151 ). SFAS No. 151 modifies the accounting for abnormal inventory costs, and the manner in which companies
allocate fixed overhead expenses to inventory. SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS No. 151 did not have a material impact on the
Company s financial position and results of operations.      In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  ( SFAS No. 154 ) .  SFAS No. 154 permits early adoption for corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after the date the Statement was issued. The
Company evaluated the impact to prior periods related to 1998 and 2000 pension plan curtailments and concluded that it was not appropriate to recognize the cumulative $2.9 million of errors through the current period statement of operations as they
primarily relate to periods prior to those included in our 2006 Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result, the Company recorded this entry as an adjustment to opening accumulated deficit.      In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN No. 48),  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an
Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 , which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN No. 48 clarifies the application of SFAS
No. 109 by defining criteria that an individual tax position must meet for any part of the benefit of that position to be recognized in the financial statements. Additionally, FIN No. 48 provides guidance on the measurement,
de-recognition, classification and disclosure of tax positions along with the accounting for the related interest and penalties. The provisions of FIN No. 48 are effective for the fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, with the
cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings. We will be required to adopt FIN No. 48 for our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2007. We are in the process of determining the
impact of FIN No. 48 on our Consolidated Financial Statements.      In October 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard No. 158, Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, ( SFAS No. 158 ), an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R). SFAS No. 158 represents the
completion of the first phase in the FASB s postretirement benefits accounting project and requires an entity to recognize in its statement of financial position an asset for a defined benefit postretirement plan s overfunded status or a
liability for a plan s underfunded status, measure a defined benefit postretirement plan s assets and obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the employer s fiscal year, and recognize changes in the funded status
of a defined benefit postretirement plan in comprehensive income in the year in which the changes occur. The requirement to recognize the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan and the disclosure requirements are effective for fiscal
years ending after December 15, 2006. The Company will adopt this requirement beginning August 1, 2006. The requirement to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the employer s fiscal year-end statement of
financial position is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. The Company will adopt this requirement for our fiscal year beginning August 1, 2007. We are in the process of determining the impact of SFAS No. 158 on
the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   41   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         
    3. OTHER ACCRUED EXPENSES       Other accrued expenses consisted of the following at July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005:       

(1)  
  Liability established as a result of dissolution of a joint venture agreement with Ando Electric Co., Ltd., a Japanese company.         4. LONG-TERM DEBT       Long-term debt consists of
the following:       
    On August 8, 2001, the Company received net proceeds of $145.2 million from a private
placement of $150 million, 4.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes ( the Notes ) due 2006. The private placement was effected through a Rule 144A offering to qualified institutional buyers. Interest on the Notes is payable on February 15
and August 15 of each year, commencing February 15, 2002. The Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock at any time prior to the close of business on August 15, 2006, unless previously redeemed, at a conversion price of
$29.04 per share, subject to certain adjustments. Prior to August 19, 2004, the Company could have redeemed any of the Notes at a certain redemption price, plus accrued interest, if the closing price of the common stock has exceeded 150% of the
conversion price for at least 20 trading days in any consecutive 30-day trading period and certain other conditions are satisfied. On or after August 19, 2004, the Company could have redeemed any of the Notes at designated redemption prices,
plus accrued interest. The Notes are unsecured and subordinated in right of payment in full to all existing and future senior indebtedness of the Company. Expenses associated with the offering of approximately $4.8 million are being amortized using
the straight-line method, which approximates the effective interest method, over the term of the Notes. The stated interest rate is 4.25% and the effective rate is 4.39% due to the amortization of capitalized costs associated with the offering.
During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2005, the Company repurchased $61.7 million of the outstanding principal balance. On November 14, 2005, the Company exchanged $27.2 million in aggregate principal amount of new notes plus all accrued and
unpaid interest on the outstanding notes for an equal principal amount of outstanding notes due August 2007. Please refer to the Company s current report on Form 8-K filed on November 14, 2005 for further details. As of July 31, 2006,
the outstanding principal balance of the 4.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes was $61.1 million. In addition, $27.2 million of new notes are due in August 2007. As of July 31, 2006 the outstanding principal balance was $88.3 million of which
$61.1 million is due on August 8, 2006 and $27.2 million is due August 15, 2007. On August 8, 2006 the Company paid with its existing short term cash, the $61.1 million 4.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes due. The Company intends to
pay the remaining $27.2 million in August 2007 with cash from operations.      On June 3, 2005, the Company closed a $60.0 million term
loan with a lender. The loan has a five year term, with interest only payable in the first year. Interest is at the lender s variable prime rate and the loan is secured by all assets of the Company located in the United States. The proceeds
from this loan were used to finance the repurchase of the $61.7 million 4.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes and other working capital purposes. As of July 31, 2006 the outstanding loan amount is $59.4 million of which $9.0 million is
classified as current portion of long-term debt that will be repaid in fiscal 2007. The $59.4 million will be paid in 47 payments as follows: (i) two monthly installments of $0.6 million payable August 1, 2006, then 9 monthly installments
of $0.6 million through May 1, 2007; (ii) twelve monthly installments of $1.2 million,  
       
   42   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         
  
 commencing on June 1, 2007 and ending on May 1, 2008, (iii) twelve monthly installments of $1.5 million, commencing on June 1, 2008 and
ending on May 1, 2009; and, (iv) twelve monthly installments of $1.7 million, commencing on June 1, 2009 and ending on May 1, 2010. The Company has a covenant in its loan agreement that requires it to maintain minimum cash and
cash equivalents and marketable securities balances with the lender of no less than the aggregate of the outstanding term loan plus $30.0 million. However, in the event the Company s cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities are less
than this amount, the impact to the Company is the imposition of additional bank fees. The additional fees would not have a material impact on the Company s financial position or results of operations.      The Company has a second credit facility with another lender for a revolving credit line of $5.0 million. This facility is secured by cash and marketable
securities. This line of credit secures obligations of operating leases and existing stand-by letters of credit. The line is fully utilized with $0.0 million available as of July 31, 2006 by securing our obligations under certain lease
agreements and letters of credit. The facility expires on August 1, 2007.       5. INCOME TAXES       Reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate to the Company s effective tax rate is as follows:       
    The temporary differences and carryforwards that created the deferred tax assets and (liabilities)
as of July 31, 2006, and 2005 are as follows:       
    Compliance with SFAS No. 109 requires the Company to periodically evaluate the necessity of
establishing or increasing a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets depending on whether it is more likely than not that a related benefit will be realized in future periods. As a result of its cumulative loss position, the Company continues to
maintain a full valuation allowance against its deferred tax asset balance. Included in the valuation allowance is approximately $4.7 million related to certain NOL carryovers resulting from the exercise of stock options, the benefit of which, when
recognized, will be accounted for as a credit to additional paid in capital rather than a reduction in income tax.      As of July 31,
2006, the Company had federal net operating loss carryforwards of $419,111,000, which expire in 2019 to 2027, and Federal tax credit carryforwards of $25,951,000, which expire from 2016 to 2021. State tax credits and carryforwards of $15,998,000 at
July 31, 2006 expire from 2006 to 2020. The Company also has foreign NOLs of $2,567,000 in the United Kingdom and $676,000 in Japan.      In accordance with SFAS No. 109 and SFAS No. 5,  Accounting For Contingencies,  we established reserves for tax contingencies that reflect our best estimate of the transactions and deductions that we may be unable to sustain
or that we would be willing to concede as part of a broader tax settlement. We are currently undergoing routine tax examinations by various state and foreign jurisdictions. Tax authorities periodically challenge certain transactions and deductions
we reported  
       
   43   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         
  
 on our income tax returns. We do not expect the outcome of these examinations, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on
our financial position, results from operations or cash flows.       6. STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY        Public Offering       In January 2004, the
Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 to register up to $250.0 million of common stock, debt securities and warrants. On February 19, 2004, an offering was closed pursuant to the registration statement relating to the sale of
8,050,000 shares of common stock at $16.50 per share. The offering included 1,050,000 shares sold as a result of the exercise, in full, by the underwriters of their option to purchase additional shares of common stock. Gross proceeds from the stock
offering totaled approximately $132.8 million. Proceeds to LTX, net of $6.3 million in underwriters  commissions and discounts and other expenses, totaled approximately $126.5 million.       Rights Agreement       The Company has a
Rights Agreement whereby each common stock shareholder has one common share purchase right for each share of common stock held. The rights will become exercisable only if a person or group acquires 15% or more of the Company s common stock or
announces a tender offer that would result in ownership of 15% or more of the common stock. Initially, each right will entitle a stockholder to buy one share of common stock of the Company at a purchase price of $45.00 per share, subject to
significant adjustment depending on the occurrence thereafter of certain events. Before any person or group has acquired 15% or more of the common stock of the Company, the rights are redeemable by the Board of Directors at $0.001 per right. The
rights expire on April 30, 2009 unless redeemed by the Company prior to that date.       Reserved Unissued Shares       At July 31, 2006, the Company had reserved 13,794,796 unissued shares of its common stock for possible issuance under stock-based compensation plans
and the Company s Employee Stock Purchase Plan. In addition, at July 31, 2006, the Company has reserved 3,040,186 shares of its common stock for issuance relating to the Company s 4.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes. On
August 8, 2006, the Company paid $61.1 million of the 4.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes, which reduced the amount of shares reserved to 933,196.       7. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS        Stock Option Plans       In connection with the Company s Stock Option Plans, at July 31, 2006, 3,860,339 shares were subject to future grant under the 2004 Plan and no
shares were available for future grant under any of the other Company Stock Option Plans.         
   44   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         
   The following is a summary of activities for the Company s Stock Option Plans:       Stock Option Activity        
     
    As of July 31, 2006, the status of the Company s outstanding and exercisable options is as follows:       
     RSU Activity        
    On June 7, 2005, the Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the Board s Compensation
Committee, approved the accelerated vesting of certain unvested and  out-of-the-money  stock options held by employees, executive officers and non-employee directors with exercise prices greater than $7.50 per share. The closing sale price
of LTX s common stock on the Nasdaq National Market on June 7, 2005 was $5.20. As a result of this vesting acceleration, which became effective on  
       
   45   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         
  
 June 7, 2005, options to purchase approximately 2.3 million shares of LTX s common stock that would otherwise have vested at various times
within the next four years became fully vested.      The decision to accelerate these unvested options was made primarily to reduce
compensation expense that might be recorded in future periods following our adoption of SFAS No. 123R on August 1, 2005. Accelerating the vesting of these stock options reduced the Company s aggregate compensation expense in future
periods by a total of approximately $10.4 million, before taxes, based upon value calculations using the Black-Scholes methodology (approximately $6.2 million in fiscal year 2006, $4.1 million in fiscal year 2007, and $0.1 million in fiscal year
2008).       Employees  Stock Purchase Plan       The Company instituted an employee stock purchase plan in 1993 ( 1993 ESPP ). Under the 1993 ESPP, eligible employees may contribute up to 15% of their annual compensation for the purchase of common stock of the Company, subject
to an annual limit of $25,000. The price paid for the common stock is equal to 85% of the lower of the fair market value of LTX s common stock on the first business day or the last business day of a six-month offering period. The 1993 ESPP
limits the number of shares that can be issued over the term of the plan to 3,000,000 shares. In December 2003, the 1993 ESPP expired and at the annual meeting on December 10, 2003 the shareholders approved a new employee stock purchase plan
( 2004 ESPP ). The 2004 ESPP provides the same provisions as the 1993 ESPP and allows for the issuance of 1,200,000 shares of common stock to eligible employees. In September 2005, the Company amended the 2004 ESPP to provide that the
price paid for the common stock is equal to 85% of the fair market value of LTX s common stock on the last business day of a six month offering period. In fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004, shares issued under these employee stock purchase
plans were 121,881, 288,486 and 277,821, respectively.       Other Compensation Plans       The Company has established a Profit Sharing Bonus Plan, wherein a percentage of pretax profits are distributed quarterly to all non-executive employees.
Under the Profit Sharing Bonus Plan, the Company recorded profit sharing expense for all eligible employees of approximately $1.6 million, $0 million, and $0.4 million, for fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.      The Company has an Executive Profit Sharing Plan based on certain profitability milestones. Employees included in this plan are excluded from the Profit
Sharing Bonus Plan. The Company expensed $1.3 million, $0 million, and $0 million for the fiscal years 2006, 2005, 2004 respectively.      The
Company has a 401(k) Growth and Investment Program ( 401(k) Plan ). Eligible employees may make voluntary contributions to the 401(k) Plan through a salary reduction contract up to the statutory limit or 20% of their annual compensation.
The Company matches employees  voluntary contributions, up to certain prescribed limits. Company contributions vest at a rate of 20% per year. The Company suspended the match as of June of fiscal year 2001. The Company match was reinstated
beginning August 2005. The Company recorded related expense of $0.7 million for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006.      The Company has
a defined benefit pension plan for its operation in the United Kingdom. The plan was constituted in October 1981 to provide defined benefit pension and lump sum benefits, payable on retirement, for employees of LTX(Europe) Limited, ( UK ).
The plan has 71 participants of which 3 remain as active employee members and 68 are non-active former employees but for whom benefits are preserved. The plan has been closed to all new members since December 31, 2000. During fiscal 1998 LTX
initiated a significant worldwide headcount reduction. This restructuring involved the termination of 28 of the then 71 UK pension plan participants. Additionally, the Company announced the intent to divest its iPTest business in the UK in August
1998, and disclosed this in the annual report on Form 10-K for fiscal 1998. The Company subsequently sold its iPTest subsidiary in the UK in fiscal 2000. These actions resulted in the termination of 19 of the then 43 active UK pension plan
participants. The Company has concluded that these actions met the requirements of paragraph 6 of SFAS No. 88, Employers  Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and Termination Benefits in fiscal 1998
and resulted in a curtailment of this plan at that date. The plan was under-funded as of July 31, 2006 by $4.6 million. The Company has recorded this liability as other long-term liabilities in the amount of $4.3 million and accrued short-term
liabilities of $0.3 million on the consolidated balance sheet as of July 31, 2006. Additionally, the Company has recorded a $0.7 million unrecognized transition obligation asset, a $0.4 million accumulated other comprehensive loss in
stockholders  equity and an adjustment to opening retained earnings of $2.9 million. The adjustment to opening accumulated deficit resulted from the correction of an error related to the 1998 and 2000 curtailments of this plan. The Company
intends to make contributions over a 10 year period in order to reach fully funded status. The Company does not anticipate significant pension expense going forward from July 31, 2006. Factors that could impact the amount of  
       
   46   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         
  
 expense recorded include but are not limited to: 1) the rate of return on the assets invested or 2) the discount rate used to determine the net present value
of the future liabilities. The expected rate of return on assets is 6.0% and the discount rate is 5.1%. Cash payments are projected to be approximately $0.3 million in fiscal 2007 and actual cash payments were $0.2 million in fiscal 2006.
      8. INDUSTRY AND GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT INFORMATION       The Company operates predominantly in one industry segment: the design, manufacture and marketing of automated test equipment for the semiconductor industry that is used to test system-on-a-chip, digital, analog and
mixed signal integrated circuits.      In fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004, Texas Instruments accounted for 56%, 47%, and 58%, of net sales,
respectively. Sales to the top ten customers were 82%, 77%, and 88%, of net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.      The
Company s operations by geographic segment for the three years ended July 31, 2005 are summarized as follows:       
    Transfer prices on products sold to foreign subsidiaries are intended to produce profit margins
that correspond to the subsidiary s sales and support efforts. Sales to customers in North America are 100% within the United States.       9. COMMITMENTS AND LEGAL MATTERS       The Company has operating lease commitments for certain facilities and equipment that
expire at various dates through 2016. The Company has an option to extend the term for its Norwood, Massachusetts facility lease for two (2) additional five (5) year periods provided that the Company notifies its landlord at least four
hundred twenty-five (425) days prior to expiration of the original term. For further information, refer to the Company s Form 8-K filing dated December 21, 2005. Minimum lease payments under noncancelable leases at July 31, 2006,
are as follows:       
       
   47   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         
   Total rental expense for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 was $3,299,090, $9,261,863, and $14,084,063,
respectively.      The Company is, from time to time, subject to legal proceedings, claims and investigations that arise in the ordinary course
of business. There are no such matters that the Company believes are material with respect to its business, financial position or results of operations.       10. REORGANIZATION CHARGES AND INVENTORY PROVISIONS       For the quarter ended July 31, 2006, the Company recorded a
reorganization charge of approximately $0.2 million, relating primarily to the relocation of the Company s corporate headquarters.      For the quarter ended January 31, 2006, the Company recorded a reorganization charge of approximately $1.9 million, of which $0.6 million consisted of severance and employee benefit costs relating to Europe workforce reductions, $1.2
million for future lease obligations and $0.3 million of plant closure expenses and legal costs related to the closure of the Company s facilities in the United Kingdom. These expenses were partially offset by a $0.2 million reversal of a
previously recorded liability for the remaining lease payments of the Company s Westwood, Massachusetts facility. The Company signed an agreement during the quarter ended January 31, 2006 which reduced the future liability previously
recorded in fiscal 2005. Approximately $1.1 million of cash payments relating to the $1.9 million reorganization charge were made during the fiscal year ending July 31, 2006. The remaining $0.8 million will be paid out over fiscal years 2007,
2008 and 2009. In addition, we continued to maintain other cost reduction measures, such as the strict oversight and reduction in discretionary travel and other variable overhead expenses. We believe that these reductions in operating costs have
reduced our costs while preserving our ability to fund critical product research and development efforts and continue to provide our customers with the levels of responsiveness and service they require.      On October 25, 2005, LTX Corporation took actions to reduce its operating expenses, including reducing its worldwide workforce by approximately 15%,
eliminating 77 positions. Of the 77 positions, 74% were from engineering, 14% from administration, 7% from manufacturing and 5% were from sales and marketing. The Company took these actions based on a continuing review of its business plans and
operations. The Company expects to realize annual savings in operating expenses of approximately $8.0 million as a result of these actions. For the quarter ended October 31, 2005, the Company recorded a reorganization charge relating to
workforce reductions and the separation agreement with its Chief Executive Officer of $4.2 million, of which $2.3 million consisted of severance costs relating to a worldwide workforce reduction, which was paid during the fiscal year ending
July 31, 2006, and a $1.9 million charge relating to the separation of the Company s Chief Executive Officer. The separation agreement with the Company s Chief Executive Officer has a $1.2 million cash component, and a non-cash
component consisting of the acceleration of stock option expensing of $0.7 million. For more information, please refer to the Company s current reports of Form 8-K filed on October 27, 2005 and November 4, 2005.      During the quarter ended April 30, 2005, the Company recorded a reorganization charge of $28.6 million as a result of a significant corporate-wide
restructuring undertaken to more effectively align the Company s resources with our current business strategy. Of the $28.6 million, approximately $4.0 million related to headcount reduction and approximately $24.6 million related to fixed
asset impairment and facilities consolidation.      The $24.6 million reorganization charge relating to fixed asset impairment and facilities
consolidation was undertaken as a result of an asset impairment review. This review was triggered by the workforce reduction and business unit reorganization. Of the $24.6 million impairment charge, $18.1 million was related to fixed asset
equipment, $4.6 million related to future lease obligations on equipment that will no longer be used and $1.9 million related to facilities consolidation. The equipment, which has already been disposed or will be disposed of over the next twenty
four months, consists primarily of older technology having little or no resale value. The equipment that has not been disposed consists primarily of leased equipment with remaining principal payments that the Company cannot dispose of until all
lease obligations have been satisfied.      The Company recorded a reorganization charge in the quarter ended October 31, 2004 of $3.1
million, of which $1.5 million consisted of severance costs relating to a worldwide workforce reduction and $1.6 million related to consolidation of the Company s facilities in the United Kingdom. The $1.6 million reorganization charge related
to the consolidation of the Company s facilities in the United Kingdom consisted of future lease obligations net of any rental income. In the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company s major customers reduced their forecasts for capital
equipment purchases, which resulted in a sudden and substantial drop in revenues and orders for the Company. These conditions continued into the second quarter of fiscal 2005. As a result of the shorter than expected upturn in business conditions,
and the completion of the Company s transition to its next generation Fusion, the Company deemed it appropriate to make an adjustment to its inventory and recorded a $47.5 million excess and obsolete inventory provision, primarily related to
Fusion HF, in the quarter ended October 31, 2004.         
   48   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         
   The following table sets forth the Company s restructuring activity and related accrual for the
fiscal years ended 2006, 2005 and 2004:       
     11. QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited)        

(1)  
  Includes reorganization costs of $4.2 million.         

(2)  
  Includes reorganization costs of $1.9 million and an inventory related provision of $0.2 million.         

(3)  
  Includes reorganization costs of $0.2 million.         
       
   49   

Table of Contents  

LTX CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)         

(1)  
  Includes reorganization costs of $3.1 million and an inventory charge of $47.5 million.         

(2)  
  Includes reorganization costs of $4.0 million and a fixed asset impairment charge of $24.6 million.         12. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS       On September 13, 2006, the Company granted 964,500 performance based
and service based RSUs from the Company s 2004 Stock Plan to the Company s executive officers (see Form 8-K filed on September 14, 2006), and other key officers and employees. The performance based RSUs granted to the executive
officers that do not vest within five years from the date of grant will expire. The annual stock based compensation expense is expected to be approximately $4.7 million amortized over four years.         
   50   

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors and
Stockholders of LTX Corporation      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of LTX Corporation (the  Company )
as of July 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 31, 2006. Our audits also included
the financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15(a). These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based
on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position of LTX Corporation at July 31, 2006 and 2005, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 31, 2006, in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the effectiveness of LTX Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated October 11, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      Ernst   Young LLP      Boston, Massachusetts      October 11, 2006       

Item 9.   
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure         There has been no change of accountants nor any disagreements with accountants on any matter of accounting principles or practices or financial disclosure
required to be reported under this Item.       

Item 9A.   
   Controls and Procedures          Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
Procedures       The Company s management, with the participation of the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as of July 31, 2006. The term  disclosure controls and procedures,  as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act,
means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported,
within the time period specified in the SEC s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that
it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit
relationship of possible controls and procedures. Based on the evaluation of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as of July 31, 2006, the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of
such date, the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance levels.      Management s
report on the Company s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) and the independent registered public accounting firm s related audit report are included in this
Item 9.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

    Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company. Internal
control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company s principal executive and principal financial
officers and effected by the Company s board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:       

Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and         

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect
on the financial statements.        Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
may deteriorate.      The Company s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting
as of July 31, 2006. In making this assessment, the Company s management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.      Based on our assessment, management concluded that, as of July 31, 2006, the Company s internal control over financial reporting is effective
based on those criteria.      The Company s independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report on our assessment of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting. This report appears below.       Attestation Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm        Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors and Stockholders of LTX Corporation      We have audited management s assessment, included in the accompanying Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that LTX Corporation maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). LTX Corporation s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management s
assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that  
       
   52   

Table of Contents  

receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, management s assessment that LTX Corporation maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of July 31,
2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, LTX Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, based on the COSO
criteria.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated balance sheets of LTX Corporation as of July 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended July 31, 2006 of LTX Corporation and our report dated October 11, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      Ernst   Young LLP      Boston, Massachusetts      October 11, 2006       Changes in
Internal Controls       There was no change in the Company s internal control over financial reporting during the fourth fiscal quarter
ended July 31, 2006 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.       PART III        

Items 10-14.    
   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant, Executive Compensation, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters,
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Principal Accountant Fees and Services         Information required under
these Items is included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on December 6, 2006, under the headings  Certain Stockholders,   Election of Directors,   Compensation of Executives and
Officers,   Compensation Plans,   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,  and  Information Concerning Auditors,  which information is incorporated herein by reference. Such Proxy Statement shall
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after the end of the Company s fiscal year, July 31, 2006.       PART IV        

Item 15.   
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules          
  (A) 1. Financial Statements       
  The following consolidated financial statements of the Company for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006, are included in Item 8, herein.       
       
   53   

Table of Contents  

(A) 2. Financial Statement Schedules       Consolidated financial statement Schedule II for the Company is
included in Item 15(c). All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable security regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related instructions or are inapplicable and therefore have been
omitted.       
  (A) 3. Exhibits       Certain of the exhibits listed hereunder have previously been filed with the
Commission as exhibits to the Company s Registration Statement No. 2-75470 on Form S-1 filed December 23, 1981, as amended (the 1981 Registration Statement); to the Company s Registration Statement No. 2-94218 on Form S-1
filed November 8, 1984, as amended (the 1984 Registration Statement); to the Company s Registration Statement No. 33-35401 on Form S-4 filed June 26, 1990, as amended (the 1990 Registration Statement No. 1); to the
Company s Registration Statement No. 33-39610 on Form S-3 filed June 10, 1991, as amended (the 1991 Registration Statement No. 1); to the Company s Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement No. 33-62125 on Form S-3
filed September 11, 1995 (the 1995 Registration Statement No. 1); to the Company s Registration No. 333-106163 on Form S-8 filed June 16, 2003 (the  2003 S-8  to the Company s Registration No. 333-11814
on Form S-8 filed January 9, 2004 (the  2004 S-8  to the Company s Registration Statement No. 333-121379 on Form S-8 filed on December 12, 2004 (the  December 2004 S-8  to the Company s Form 8A/A
filed September 30, 1993 amending the Company s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed November 24, 1982 (the 1993 8A/A); to the Company s Current Reports on Form 8-K filed May 11, 1989 and April 3, 2002; the
Company s Annual Reports on Form 10-K for one of the years ended July 31, 2003, 2002, 2001, 1998, 1997, 1996, 1995, 1994, 1993, 1992, 1991, 1990, 1989, 1988, 1987, 1986, 1985, 1984 and 1983; or the Company s Quarterly Reports on 10-Q
for one of the quarters ended October 31, 1997, January 31, 1998, April 30, 1998, January 31, October 31, 1999 and January 31, 2000, April 30, 2001, January 31,
2002, January 31, 2003, January 31, 2004, October 31, 2004, April 30, 2005, October 31, 2005 and January 31, 2006 and are hereby incorporated by reference. The location of each document so
incorporated by reference is noted parenthetically.       
  (A) Listing of Exhibits        
       
   54   

Table of Contents  

This exhibit is a compensatory plan or arrangement in which executive officers or directors of the Company participate.        Pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K, certain instruments with respect to long-term debt not exceeding 10% of the total assets of the Company and
its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis are not filed herewith. The Company hereby agrees to furnish to the Commission a copy of each such instrument upon request.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit 21 Subsidiaries of Registrant

Company    

LTX (Europe) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX International Inc., Domestic International Sales Corporation (DISC)   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX (Deutschland) GmBH   
      
  Germany  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX France S.A.   
      
  France  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX Test Systems Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX (Italia) S.r.   
      
  Italy  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX (Foreign Sales Corporation) B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX Asia International, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX Israel Limited   
      
  Israel  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX (Malaysia) SDN.BHD   
      
  Malaysia  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100  
  %   
    The subsidiaries listed are all included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
      Item 15(c)        SCHEDULE II
       LTX CORPORATION        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        For Years Ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004        (in thousands)        

(1)  
  Represents amounts written off.           
   56   

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.         

LTX C ORPORATION     

By:  
     
  /s/ David G. Tacelli   

David G. Tacelli    

President and Chief Executive Officer    
 
   October 13, 2006       Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

/s/ Roger W. Blethen      Roger W. Blethen    
      
  Chairman of the Board  
     
  October 13, 2006   

/s/ David G. Tacelli      David G. Tacelli    
      
  President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)  
     
  October 13, 2006   

/s/ Mark J. Gallenberger      Mark J. Gallenberger    
      
    Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and     Treasurer
(Principal Financial Officer)   
     
  October 13, 2006   

/s/ Daniel V. Wallace      Daniel V. Wallace    
      
  Controller, (Principal Accounting Officer)  
     
  October 13, 2006   

/s/ Mark S. Ain      Mark S. Ain    
      
  Director  
     
  October 13, 2006   

/s/ Stephen M. Jennings      Stephen M. Jennings    
      
  Director  
     
  October 13, 2006   

/s/ Roger J. Maggs      Roger J. Maggs    
      
  Director  
     
  October 13, 2006   

/s/ Robert E. Moore      Robert E. Moore    
      
  Director  
     
  October 10, 2006   

/s/ Samuel Rubinovitz      Samuel Rubinovitz    
      
  Director  
     
  October 13, 2006   

/s/ Patrick J. Spratt      Patrick J. Spratt    
      
  Director  
     
  October 10, 2006   
       
   57   

<EX-21>
 2
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Exhibit 21        Subsidiaries of Registrant        

Company    

LTX (Europe) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX International Inc., Domestic International Sales Corporation (DISC)   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX (Deutschland) GmBH   
      
  Germany  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX France S.A.   
      
  France  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX Test Systems Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX (Italia) S.r.   
      
  Italy  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX (Foreign Sales Corporation) B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX Asia International, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX Israel Limited   
      
  Israel  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX (Malaysia) SDN.BHD   
      
  Malaysia  
      
  100  
  %   
 
    LTX LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100  
  %   
    The subsidiaries listed are all included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company.

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 3
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Consent of Ernst   Young LLP 

Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by reference in the
Registration Statements on Form S-8 (File No. 2-77475, File No. 2-90698, File No. 33-7018, File No. 33-14179, File No. 33-32140, File No. 33-32141, File No. 33-33614, File No. 33-38674, File No. 33-38675,
File No. 33-51683, File No. 33-51685, File No. 33-57457, File No. 33-57459, File No. 33-65245, File No. 33-65247, File No. 333- 48363, File No. 333-48341, File No. 333-71455, File No. 333-30972, File
No. 333-54230, File No. 333-75734, File No. 333-102051, File No. 333-106163, File No. 333-111814 and File No. 333-111814) pertaining to the STI 2000 Stock Option Plan, 2001 Stock Plan, 1999 Stock Plan, 1993
Employees  Stock Purchase Plan, 1995 LTX (Europe) Ltd. Approved Stock Option Plan, 1990 Stock Option Plan, 1990 Incentive Stock Option Plan, 1990 Employees  Stock Purchase Plan, 1983 Employees  Stock Purchase Plan, 1983 Non-Qualified
Stock Option Plan, 1981 Incentive Stock Option Plan, 2004 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and 2004 Stock Plan of LTX Corporation of our reports dated October 11, 2006, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of LTX
Corporation, LTX Corporation management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of LTX Corporation included in the Annual Report (Form
10-K) for the year ended July 31, 2006.      /s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP      Boston, Massachusetts      October 11, 2006   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 dex311.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO CERTIFICATION

Section 302 CEO Certification 

Exhibit 31.1        Rule 13a-14(a) CERTIFICATION       I, David G. Tacelli, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of LTX Corporation;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusion about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over financial reporting.

/s/ David G. Tacelli    
 
    David G. Tacelli    
 
    President and Chief Executive Officer    
 
   Dated: October 11, 2006   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 dex312.htm
 SECTION 302 CFO CERTIFICATION

Section 302 CFO Certification 

Exhibit 31.2        Rule 13a-14(a) CERTIFICATION       I, Mark J. Gallenberger, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of LTX Corporation;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusion about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over financial reporting.

/s/ Mark J. Gallenberger   
 
    Mark J. Gallenberger    
 
    Vice President and    
 
    Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer    
 
   Dated: October 11, 2006   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 6
 dex32.htm
 SECTION 906 CEO & CFO CERTIFICATION

Section 906 CEO   CFO Certification 

Exhibit 32        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C.  1350       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, each of the undersigned certifies that this annual report
on Form 10-K for the period ended July 31, 2006 fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in this Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of LTX Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.        

/s/ David G. Tacelli   
 
    David G. Tacelli    
 
    President and Chief Executive Officer    
 
   Dated: October 11, 2006        

/s/ Mark J. Gallenberger   
 
    Mark J. Gallenberger    
 
    Vice President and    
 
    Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer    
 
   Dated: October 11, 2006   

</EX-32>

