<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061122_10-K_edgar_data_230498_0000950144-06-011132_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1633649</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>329387</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2307</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>950092</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>74</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950144-06-011132.hdr.sgml : 20061122
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061122172759
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950144-06-011132
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061122
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061122

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Rock-Tenn CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000230498
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PAPERBOARD CONTAINERS & BOXES [2650]
		IRS NUMBER:				620342590
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			GA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-12613
		FILM NUMBER:		061237221

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		504 THRASHER STREET
		CITY:			NORCROSS
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30071
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(770) 448-2193

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		PO BOX 4098
		CITY:			NORCROSS
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30091

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ROCK TENN CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19931223

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FNOvtV+CPY4Qa46YgiH71S1GN8ZtNxNPqpx2u4BJs1lG7gH9P1QBf9cyU2eEtrfT
 cwg3nlbuiEwjjdOpdUV1+w==

 0000950144-06-011132.txt : 20061122

10-K
 1
 g04353e10vk.htm
 ROCK-TENN COMPANY

ROCK-TENN COMPANY 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
      WASHINGTON, D.C.
    20549  

FORM 10-K   

Commission file number
    0-23340  

ROCK-TENN COMPANY 
       (Exact Name of
    Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

Georgia  

62-0342590  

(State or Other Jurisdiction of 
    Incorporation or Organization)

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)

504 Thrasher Street, Norcross,
    Georgia  

30071  

(Address of Principal Executive
    Offices)

(Zip Code)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:
      (770) 448-2193  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Exchange on Which Registered

Class A Common Stock, par
    value $0.01 per share  

New York Stock Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act:  None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes  o   No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes  o   No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes      No  o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
    filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
    accelerated filer  in
     rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
    filer  o                  Accelerated
    filer                     Non-accelerated
    filer  o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes  o   No   

The aggregate market value of the common equity held by
    non-affiliates of the registrant as of March 31, 2006, the
    last business day of the registrant s most recently
    completed second fiscal quarter (based on the last reported
    closing price of $14.99 per share of Class A Common
    Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on such date),
    was approximately $474 million.

As of November 10, 2006, the registrant had
    37,874,156 shares of Class A Common Stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual
    Meeting of Shareholders to be held on January 26, 2007, are
    incorporated by reference in Parts II and III.

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY  

INDEX TO
     FORM 10-K  

Page  

Reference 

PART I   

Item 1.  

Business  

3

Item 1A.  

Risk
    Factors  

9

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff
    Comments  

11

Item 2.  

Properties  

11

Item 3.  

Legal
    Proceedings  

12

Item 4.  

Submission of
    Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

12

PART II   

Item 5.  

Market for the
    Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

13

Item 6.  

Selected Financial
    Data  

13

Item 7.  

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  

15

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

34

Item 8.  

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data  

37

Item 9.  

Changes in and
    Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
    Disclosure  

88

Item 9A.  

Controls and
    Procedures  

88

Item 9B.  

Other
    Information  

89

PART III   

Item 10.  

Directors and
    Executive Officers of the Registrant  

89

Item 11.  

Executive
    Compensation  

89

Item 12.  

Security Ownership
    of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
    Stockholder Matters  

89

Item 13.  

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions  

89

Item 14.  

Principal
    Accounting Fees and Services  

89

PART IV   

Item 15.  

Exhibits and
    Financial Statement Schedules  

90

EX-10.15 AMENDED CREDIT & SECURITY AGREEMENT    
     EX-12 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS    
     EX-21 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT    
     EX-23 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP    
     EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO    
     EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO    
     EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO & CFO    

2

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.      

BUSINESS   

Unless the context otherwise requires,   we, 
     us,   our   or
      Rock-Tenn     refers to the business of
    Rock-Tenn Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, including
    RTS Packaging, LLC (  RTS   ) and GSD
    Packaging, LLC, (   GSD.    ) We own 65%
    of RTS and conduct our interior packaging business through RTS.
    We own 60% of GSD and conduct some of our folding carton
    operations through GSD. These terms do not include Seven Hills
    Paperboard, LLC (  Seven Hills.  ). We own 49% of
    Seven Hills, a manufacturer of gypsum paperboard liner, which we
    do not consolidate. All references in the accompanying financial
    statements and this Annual Report to data regarding sales price
    per ton and fiber, energy, chemical and freight costs with
    respect to our recycled paperboard mills excludes that data with
    respect to our Aurora, Illinois, recycled paperboard mill, which
    sells only converted products which would not be material. All
    other references herein to operating data with respect to our
    recycled paperboard mills, including tons data and capacity
    utilization rates, includes operating data from our Aurora
    mill. 

General  

We are primarily a manufacturer of packaging products,
    paperboard and merchandising displays. We operate a total of 92
    facilities located in 26 states, Canada, Mexico, Chile and
    Argentina.

Products  

We report our results of operations in four segments:
    (1) Packaging Products, (2) Paperboard,
    (3) Merchandising Displays, and (4) Corrugated. For
    segment financial information, see Item 8,
       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 
      For non-US financial information operations, see
       Note 19. Segment Information    of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Packaging
    Products Segment   

In our Packaging Products segment, we manufacture folding
    cartons and solid fiber interior packaging.

Folding Cartons.   We believe we are one of the
    largest manufacturers of folding cartons in North America
    measured by net sales. Customers use our folding cartons to
    package dry, frozen and perishable foods for the retail sale and
    quick-serve markets; beverages; paper goods; automotive
    products; hardware; health care and nutritional food supplement
    products; household goods; healthcare and beauty aids;
    recreational products; apparel; and other products. We also
    manufacture express mail envelopes for the overnight courier
    industry. Folding cartons typically protect customers 
    products during shipment and distribution and employ graphics to
    promote them at retail. We manufacture folding cartons from
    recycled and virgin paperboard, laminated paperboard and various
    substrates with specialty characteristics such as grease masking
    and microwaveability. We print, coat, die-cut and glue the
    paperboard to customer specifications. We ship finished cartons
    to customers for assembling, filling and sealing. We employ a
    broad range of offset, flexographic, gravure, backside printing,
    and double coating technologies. We support our customers with
    new product development, graphic design and packaging systems
    services. Three of our plants are part of the GSD joint venture
    that manufactures take-out food products. Sales of folding
    cartons to external customers accounted for 51.9%, 49.1%, and
    48.8% of our net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004,
    respectively.

Interior Packaging.   Our subsidiary, RTS,
    designs and manufactures fiber partitions and die-cut paperboard
    components. We believe we are the largest manufacturer of solid
    fiber partitions in North America measured by net sales. We sell
    our solid fiber partitions principally to glass container
    manufacturers and producers of beer, food, wine, cosmetics and
    pharmaceuticals. We also manufacture specialty agricultural
    packaging for specific fruit and vegetable markets and sheeted
    separation products. We manufacture solid fiber interior
    packaging primarily from recycled paperboard. Our solid fiber
    interior packaging is made from varying thicknesses of single
    ply and laminated paperboard to meet different structural
    requirements, including those required for high speed-casing,
    de-casing and filling lines. We employ primarily proprietary
    manufacturing equipment developed by our engineering services
    group. This equipment delivers high-speed production and rapid
    turnaround on large jobs and specialized capabilities for
    short-run, custom applications. RTS operates in United States,
    Canada, Mexico, Chile, and

3

Table of Contents   

Argentina. Sales of interior packaging products to external
    customers accounted for 7.3%, 8.0%, and 8.4% of our net sales in
    fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.

Paperboard
    Segment   

In our Paperboard segment, we produce virgin and recycled
    paperboard, corrugated medium, and market pulp, and buy and sell
    recycled fiber.

Paperboard.   We believe we are one of the
    largest U.S. manufacturers of 100% recycled paperboard
    measured by tons produced. We sell our coated and specialty
    recycled paperboard to manufacturers of folding cartons, solid
    fiber interior packaging, tubes and cores, and other paperboard
    products. We manufacture bleached paperboard and market pulp. We
    believe our bleached paperboard mill is one of the lowest cost
    solid bleached sulphate paperboard mills in North America
    because of cost advantages achieved through original design,
    process flow, relative age of its recovery boiler and hardwood
    pulp line replaced in the early 1990s and access to hardwood and
    softwood fiber. We also manufacture recycled corrugated medium,
    which we sell to corrugated sheet manufacturers. Through our
    Seven Hills joint venture we manufacture gypsum paperboard liner
    for sale to our joint venture partner. We also convert specialty
    paperboard into book cover and laminated paperboard products for
    use in furniture, automotive components, storage, and other
    industrial products. Sales of pulp, paperboard, recycled
    corrugated medium, book covers, and laminated paperboard
    products to external customers accounted for 21.5%, 19.7%, and
    19.0% of our net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004,
    respectively.

Recycled Fiber.   Our paper recovery facilities
    collect primarily waste paper from factories, warehouses,
    commercial printers, office complexes, retail stores, document
    storage facilities, and paper converters, and from other
    wastepaper collectors. We handle a wide variety of grades of
    recovered paper, including old corrugated containers, office
    paper, box clippings, newspaper and print shop scraps. After
    sorting and baling, we transfer collected paper to our
    paperboard mills for processing, or sell it, principally to
    U.S. manufacturers of paperboard, tissue, newsprint,
    roofing products and insulation. We also operate a fiber
    marketing and brokerage group that serves large regional and
    national accounts. Sales of recovered paper to external
    customers accounted for 2.8%, 4.1%, and 4.0% of our net sales in
    fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.

Merchandising
    Displays Segment   

We manufacture temporary and permanent
     point-of-purchase 
    displays. We believe that we are one of the largest
    manufacturers of temporary promotional
     point-of-purchase 
    displays in North America measured by net sales. We design,
    manufacture and, in most cases, pack temporary displays for sale
    to consumer products companies. These displays are used as
    marketing tools to support new product introductions and
    specific product promotions in mass merchandising stores,
    supermarkets, convenience stores, home improvement stores and
    other retail locations. We also design, manufacture and, in some
    cases, pre-assemble permanent displays for the same categories
    of customers. We make temporary displays primarily from
    corrugated paperboard. Unlike temporary displays. permanent
    displays are restocked and, therefore, are constructed primarily
    from metal, plastic, wood and other durable materials. We
    provide contract packing services such as multi-product
    promotional packing. We manufacture lithographic laminated
    packaging for sale to our customers that require packaging with
    high quality graphics and strength characteristics. Sales of our
    merchandising displays, lithographic laminated packaging and
    contract packaging services to external customers accounted for
    10.9%, 13.1%, and 15.0% of our net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005,
    and 2004, respectively.

Corrugated
    Segment   

We manufacture corrugated packaging for sale to industrial and
    consumer products manufacturers and corrugated sheet stock for
    sale to corrugated box manufacturers located primarily in the
    southeastern United States. To make corrugated sheet stock, we
    feed linerboard and corrugated medium into a corrugator that
    flutes the medium to specified sizes, glues the linerboard and
    fluted medium together and slits and cuts the resulting
    corrugated paperboard into sheets to customer specifications. We
    also convert corrugated sheets into corrugated products ranging
    from one-color protective cartons to graphically brilliant
     point-of-purchase 
    containers and displays. We

4

Table of Contents   

provide structural design and engineering services. Sales of
    corrugated packaging and sheet stock to external customers
    accounted for 5.6%, 6.0%, and 4.8% of our net sales in fiscal
    2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.

Raw
    Materials  

The primary raw materials that our paperboard operations use are
    recycled fiber at our recycled paperboard mills and virgin
    fibers from hardwoods and softwoods at our bleached paperboard
    mill. The average cost per ton of recycled fiber that our
    recycled paperboard mills used during fiscal 2006, 2005, and
    2004 was $88, $102, and $98, respectively. Recycled fiber prices
    can fluctuate significantly. While virgin fiber prices are
    generally more stable than recycled fiber prices, they also
    fluctuate, particularly during prolonged periods of heavy rain.
    Pursuant to a five year agreement entered into in June 2005,
    Gulf States Paper Corporation (  Gulf States  ,
    currently known as the Westervelt Company) has essentially
    agreed to continue to sell to our bleached paperboard mill the
    supply of soft wood chips that it made available to the mill
    before our acquisition of Gulf States in June 2005 (the
      GSPP Acquisition  ), which represents
    approximately 75% to 80% of the mill s historical soft wood
    chip supply requirements and 30% of the mill s total wood
    fiber supply requirement.

Recycled and virgin paperboard are the primary raw materials
    that our paperboard converting operations use. One of the
    primary grades of virgin paperboard, coated unbleached kraft,
    used by our folding carton operations, has only two domestic
    suppliers. While we believe that we would be able to obtain
    adequate replacement supplies in the market should either of our
    current vendors discontinue supplying us coated unbleached
    kraft, the failure to obtain these supplies or the failure to
    obtain these supplies at reasonable market prices could have an
    adverse effect on our results of operations. We supply
    substantially all of our needs for recycled paperboard from our
    own mills and consume approximately 50% of our bleached
    paperboard production, although we have the capacity to consume
    it all. Because there are other suppliers that produce the
    necessary grades of recycled and bleached paperboard used in our
    converting operations, management believes that it would be able
    to obtain adequate replacement supplies in the market should we
    be unable to meet our requirements for recycled or bleached
    paperboard through internal production.

Energy  

Energy is one of the most significant manufacturing costs of our
    paperboard operations. We use natural gas, electricity, fuel oil
    and coal to operate our mills and to generate steam to make
    paper. We use primarily electricity for our converting
    equipment. We generally purchase these products from suppliers
    at market rates. Occasionally, we enter into agreements to
    purchase natural gas at fixed prices. In recent years, the cost
    of natural gas, oil and electricity has fluctuated
    significantly. The average cost of energy used by our recycled
    paperboard mills to produce a ton of paperboard during fiscal
    2006 was $86 per ton, compared to $73 per ton during
    fiscal 2005 and $67 per ton in fiscal 2004. Our bleached
    paperboard mill uses wood by products and pulp process wastes to
    supply a substantial portion of the mill s energy needs.

We are a party to a supply contract ending June 2007 pursuant to
    which we purchase steam from a nearby power plant for our St.
    Paul, Minnesota mills. The steam supplier has advised us that by
    September 2007 it will no longer provide steam to the St. Paul
    mills. In such event, we intend, subject to obtaining final
    regulatory permits, to use our existing
     on-site 
    steam generation plant to generate energy for our St. Paul mills
    after the existing energy supply contract expires. We expect to
    spend approximately $3.5 million during fiscal 2007 to
    utilize our existing
     on-site 
    steam generation plant. The steam generation plant will be
    powered by burning natural gas
     and/or  fuel
    oil, which we believe will cost more than the cost of our
    current steam supply.

Transportation  

Inbound and outbound freight is a significant expenditure for
    us. Factors that influence our freight expense are distance
    between our shipping and delivery locations, distance from
    suppliers, mode of transportation (rail, truck, intermodal) and
    freight rates which are influenced by supply and demand and fuel
    costs.

5

Table of Contents   

Sales and
    Marketing  

Our top 10 external customers represented approximately 25% of
    consolidated net sales in fiscal 2006, none of which
    individually accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net
    sales. We generally manufacture our products pursuant to
    customers  orders. The loss of any of our larger customers
    could have a material adverse effect on the income attributable
    to the applicable segment and, depending on the significance of
    the product line, our results of operations. We believe that we
    have good relationships with our customers.

In fiscal 2006, we sold:

packaging products to approximately 3,100 customers, the top 10
    of which represented approximately 32% of the external sales of
    our Packaging Products segment;

paperboard products to approximately 1,400 customers, the top 10
    of which represented approximately 35% of the external sales of
    our Paperboard segment.

merchandising display products to approximately 500 customers,
    the top 10 of which represented approximately 76% of the
    external sales of our Merchandising Display segment.

corrugated packaging products to approximately 600 customers,
    the top 10 of which represented approximately 50% of the
    external sales of our Corrugated segment.

During fiscal 2006, we sold approximately 36% of our Paperboard
    segment sales to internal customers, primarily to our Packaging
    Products segment. Our Paperboard segment s sales volumes
    may therefore be directly impacted by changes in demand for our
    packaging products. Under the terms of our Seven Hills joint
    venture arrangement, our joint venture partner is required to
    purchase all of the qualifying gypsum paperboard liner produced
    by Seven Hills.

We market our products, other than our gypsum paperboard liner,
    primarily through our own sales force. We also market a number
    of our products through either independent sales representatives
    or independent distributors, or both. We pay our paperboard
    products sales personnel a base salary, and we generally pay our
    packaging products, merchandising displays and corrugated
    packaging sales personnel a base salary plus commissions. We pay
    our independent sales representatives on a commission basis.

Competition  

The packaging products and paperboard industries are highly
    competitive, and no single company dominates either industry.
    Our competitors include large, vertically integrated packaging
    products and paperboard companies and numerous smaller
    non-integrated companies. In the folding carton and corrugated
    packaging markets, we compete with a significant number of
    national, regional and local packaging suppliers in North
    America. In the solid fiber interior packaging, promotional
     point-of-purchase 
    display, and converted paperboard products markets, we compete
    with a smaller number of national, regional and local companies
    offering highly specialized products. Our paperboard operations
    compete with integrated and non-integrated national and regional
    companies operating in North America that manufacture various
    grades of paperboard and, to a limited extent, manufacturers
    outside of North America.

Because all of our businesses operate in highly competitive
    industry segments, we regularly bid for sales opportunities to
    customers for new business or for renewal of existing business.
    The loss of business or the award of new business from our
    larger customers may have a significant impact on our results of
    operations.

The primary competitive factors in the packaging products and
    paperboard industries are price, design, product innovation,
    quality and service, with varying emphasis on these factors
    depending on the product line and customer preferences. We
    believe that we compete effectively with respect to each of
    these factors and we evaluate our performance with annual
    customer service surveys. However, to the extent that any of our
    competitors becomes more successful with respect to any key
    competitive factor, our business could be materially adversely
    affected.

Our ability to pass through cost increases can be limited based
    on competitive market conditions for our products and by the
    actions of our competitors. In addition, we sell a significant
    portion of our paperboard and paperboard-based converted
    products pursuant to term contracts that provide that prices are
    either fixed for

6

Table of Contents   

specified terms or provide for price adjustments based on
    negotiated terms, including changes in specified paperboard
    index prices. The effect of these contractual provisions
    generally is to either limit the amount of the increase or delay
    our ability to recover announced price increases for our
    paperboard and paperboard-based converted products.

The packaging products and recycled paperboard industries have
    undergone significant consolidation in recent years. Within the
    packaging products industry, larger corporate customers with an
    expanded geographic presence have tended in recent years to seek
    suppliers who can, because of their broad geographic presence,
    efficiently and economically supply all or a range of the
    customers  packaging needs. In addition, during recent
    years, purchasers of paperboard and packaging products have
    demanded higher quality products meeting stricter quality
    control requirements. These market trends could adversely affect
    our results of operations or, alternatively, favor our products
    depending on our competitive position in specific product lines.

Our paperboard packaging products compete with plastic and
    corrugated packaging and packaging made from other materials.
    Customer shifts away from paperboard packaging to packaging from
    other materials could adversely affect our results of operations.

Governmental
    Regulation  

Health
    and Safety Regulations   

Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign
    laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker
    health including the Occupational Safety and Health Act
    (  OSHA  ) and related regulations. OSHA, among
    other things, establishes asbestos and noise standards and
    regulates the use of hazardous chemicals in the workplace.
    Although we do not use asbestos in manufacturing our products,
    some of our facilities contain asbestos. For those facilities
    where asbestos is present, we believe we have properly contained
    the asbestos
     and/or  we
    have conducted training of our employees to ensure that no
    federal, state or local rules or regulations are violated in the
    maintenance of our facilities. We do not believe that future
    compliance with health and safety laws and regulations will have
    a material adverse effect on our results of operations,
    financial condition or cash flows.

Environmental
    Regulation   

We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign
    environmental laws and regulations, including, among others, the
    Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
    Act (  CERCLA  ), the Clean Air Act (as amended
    in 1990), the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and
    Recovery Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act. These
    environmental regulatory programs are primarily administered by
    the US Environmental Protection Agency. In addition, some states
    in which we operate have adopted equivalent or more stringent
    environmental laws and regulations or have enacted their own
    parallel environmental programs, which are enforced through
    various state administrative agencies.

We believe that future compliance with these environmental laws
    and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
    However, our compliance and remediation costs could increase
    materially. In addition, we cannot currently assess with
    certainty the impact that the future emissions standards and
    enforcement practices associated with changes to regulations
    promulgated under the Clean Air Act will have on our operations
    or capital expenditure requirements. However, we believe that
    any such impact or capital expenditures will not have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition
    or cash flows.

We estimate that we will spend approximately $3.0 million
    for capital expenditures during fiscal 2007 in connection with
    matters relating to environmental compliance. Additionally, to
    comply with emissions regulations under the Clean Air Act, we
    may be required to modify or replace a coal-fired boiler at one
    of our facilities, which we estimate would cost approximately
    $2.0 to $3.0 million. If necessary, we anticipate that we
    will incur those costs during fiscal 2007 and 2008.

For additional information concerning environmental regulation,
    see    Note 18. Commitments and
    Contingencies    of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

7

Table of Contents   

Patents
    and Other Intellectual Property  

We hold a substantial number of patents and pending patent
    applications in the United States and in certain foreign
    countries. Our patent portfolio consists primarily of utility
    and design patents relating to our various products, as well as
    certain process and method patents and patent applications
    relating to our manufacturing operations. Certain of our
    products are also protected by trademarks such as
    MillMask   ,
    Millennium
    Board   ,
    AdvantaEdge   ,
    BlueCuda   ,
    BillBoard   ,
    CitruSaver   ,
    Duraframe   ,
    DuraFreeze  tm  ,
    ProduSaver   ,
    WineGuard   ,
    MAXPDQ  tm  ,
    and
    MAXLitePDQ  tm   .   Our
    patents and other intellectual property, particularly our
    patents relating to our interior packaging, retail displays and
    folding carton operations, are important to our operations as a
    whole.

Employees  

At September 30, 2006, we had approximately 9,500
    employees. Of these employees, approximately 7,300 were hourly
    and approximately 2,200 were salaried. Approximately 3,300 of
    our hourly employees are covered by union collective bargaining
    agreements, which generally have three-year terms. We have not
    experienced any work stoppages in the past 10 years other
    than a three-week work stoppage at our Aurora, Illinois,
    paperboard facility during fiscal 2004. Management believes that
    our relations with our employees are good.

Available
    Information  

Our Internet address is  www.rocktenn.com.  Our Internet
    address is included herein as an inactive textual reference
    only. The information contained on our website is not
    incorporated by reference herein and should not be considered
    part of this report. We file annual, quarterly and current
    reports, proxy statements and other information with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission  ( SEC )  and
    we make available free of charge most of our SEC filings through
    our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after
    filing with the SEC. You may access these SEC filings via the
    hyperlink that we provide on our website to a third-party SEC
    filings website. We also make available on our website the
    charters of our audit committee, our compensation committee, and
    our nominating and corporate governance committee, as well as
    the corporate governance guidelines adopted by our board of
    directors, our Code of Business Conduct for employees, our Code
    of Business Conduct and Ethics for directors and our Code of
    Ethical Conduct for CEO and senior financial officers. We will
    also provide copies of these documents, without charge, at the
    written request of any shareholder of record. Requests for
    copies should be mailed to: Rock-Tenn Company, 504 Thrasher
    Street, Norcross, Georgia 30071, Attention: Corporate Secretary.

Forward-Looking
    Information  

We, or our executive officers and directors on our behalf, may
    from time to time make  forward-looking statements 
    within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
    Forward-looking statements include statements preceded by,
    followed by or that include the words  believes, 
     expects,   anticipates,   plans, 
     estimates,  or similar expressions. These statements
    may be contained in reports and other documents that we file
    with the SEC or may be oral statements made by our executive
    officers and directors to the press, potential investors,
    securities analysts and others. These forward-looking statements
    could involve, among other things, statements regarding any of
    the following: our results of operations, financial condition,
    cash flows, liquidity or capital resources, including
    expectations regarding sales growth, our production capacities,
    our ability to achieve operating efficiencies, and our ability
    to fund our capital expenditures, interest payments, estimated
    tax payments, stock repurchases, dividends, working capital
    needs, and repayments of debt; the consummation of acquisitions
    and financial transactions, the effect of these transactions on
    our business and the valuation of assets acquired in these
    transactions; our competitive position and competitive
    conditions; our ability to obtain adequate replacement supplies
    of raw materials or energy; our relationships with our
    customers; our relationships with our employees; our plans and
    objectives for future operations and expansion; amounts and
    timing of capital expenditures and the impact of such capital
    expenditures on our results of operations, financial condition,
    or cash flows; our compliance obligations with respect to health
    and safety laws and environmental laws, the cost of such
    compliance, the timing of such costs, or the impact of any
    liability under such laws on our results of operations,
    financial condition or cash flows, and our right to
    indemnification with respect to any such cost or liability; the
    impact of any gain or loss of a customer s business; the
    impact of announced price increases; the scope, costs, timing
    and impact of any restructuring of our operations and corporate
    and tax structure; the scope and timing of any litigation or
    other dispute resolutions and the

8

Table of Contents   

impact of any such litigation or other dispute resolutions on
    our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows;
    factors considered in connection with any impairment analysis,
    the outcome of any such analysis and the anticipated impact of
    any such analysis on our results of operations, financial
    condition or cash flows; pension and retirement plan
    obligations, contributions, the factors used to evaluate and
    estimate such obligations and expenses, the impact of amendments
    to our pension and retirement plans, the impact of governmental
    regulations on our results of operations, financial condition or
    cash flows; and pension and retirement plan asset investment
    strategies; the financial condition of our insurers and the
    impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash
    flows in the event of an insurer s default on their
    obligations; the impact of any market risks, such as interest
    rate risk, pension plan risk, foreign currency risk, commodity
    price risks, energy price risk, rates of return, the risk of
    investments in derivative instruments, and the risk of
    counterparty nonperformance, and factors affecting those risks;
    the amount of contractual obligations based on variable price
    provisions and variable timing and the effect of contractual
    obligations on liquidity and cash flow in future periods; the
    implementation of accounting standards and the impact of these
    standards once implemented; factors used to calculate the fair
    value of options, including expected term and stock price
    volatility; our assumptions and expectations regarding critical
    accounting policies and estimates; the adequacy of our system of
    internal controls over financial reporting; and the
    effectiveness of any actions we may take with respect to our
    system of internal controls over financial reporting.

Any forward-looking statements are based on our current
    expectations and beliefs at the time of the statements and would
    be subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
    results of operations, financial condition, acquisitions,
    financing transactions, operations, expansion and other events
    to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these
    forward-looking statements. With respect to these statements, we
    make a number of assumptions regarding, among other things,
    expected economic, competitive and market conditions generally;
    expected volumes and price levels of purchases by customers;
    competitive conditions in our businesses; possible adverse
    actions of our customers, our competitors and suppliers; labor
    costs; the amount and timing of expected capital expenditures,
    including installation costs, project development and
    implementation costs, severance and other shutdown costs;
    restructuring costs; the expected utilization of real property
    that is subject to the restructurings due to realizable values
    from the sale of that property; anticipated earnings that will
    be available for offset against net operating loss
    carry-forwards; expected credit availability; raw material and
    energy costs; replacement energy supply alternatives and related
    capital expenditures; and expected year-end inventory levels and
    costs. These assumptions also could be affected by changes in
    management s plans, such as delays or changes in
    anticipated capital expenditures or changes in our operations.
    We believe that our assumptions are reasonable; however, undue
    reliance should not be placed on these assumptions, which are
    based on current expectations. These forward-looking statements
    are subject to certain risks including, among others, that our
    assumptions will prove to be inaccurate. There are many factors
    that impact these forward-looking statements that we cannot
    predict accurately. Actual results may vary materially from
    current expectations, in part because we manufacture most of our
    products against customer orders with short lead times and small
    backlogs, while our earnings are dependent on volume due to
    price levels and our generally high fixed operating costs.
    Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are
    made, and we, and our executive officers and directors, have no
    duty under the federal securities laws and undertake no
    obligation to update any such information as future events
    unfold.

Further, our business is subject to a number of general risks
    that would affect any forward-looking statements, including the
    risks discussed under    Item 1A.   Risk
    Factors.   

Item 1A.      

RISK
    FACTORS   

We May Face Increased Costs and Reduced Supply of Raw
    Materials  

Historically, the cost of recovered paper and virgin paperboard,
    our principal externally sourced raw materials, have fluctuated
    significantly due to market and industry conditions. Increasing
    demand for products packaged in 100% recycled paper and the
    shift by virgin paperboard, tissue, newsprint and corrugated
    packaging manufacturers to the production of products with some
    recycled paper content have and may continue to increase demand
    for recovered paper. Furthermore, there has been a substantial
    increase in demand for U.S. sourced recovered paper by
    Asian countries. These increasing demands may result in cost
    increases. In recent years, the cost of natural gas, which we
    use in many of our manufacturing operations, including most of
    our paperboard mills, and other energy costs (including energy
    generated by burning natural gas) have also fluctuated
    significantly. There can be no

9

Table of Contents   

assurance that we will be able to recoup any past or future
    increases in the cost of recovered paper or other raw materials
    or of natural gas or other energy through price increases for
    our products. Further, a reduction in supply of recovered paper,
    virgin paperboard or other raw materials due to increased demand
    or other factors could have an adverse effect on our results of
    operations and financial condition.

We May Experience Pricing Variability  

The paperboard and converted products industries historically
    have experienced significant fluctuations in selling prices. If
    we are unable to maintain the selling prices of products within
    these industries, that inability may have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We
    are not able to predict with certainty market conditions or the
    selling prices for our products.

Our Earnings are Highly Dependent on Volumes  

Our operations generally have high fixed operating cost
    components and therefore our earnings are highly dependent on
    volumes, which tend to fluctuate. These fluctuations make it
    difficult to predict our results with any degree of certainty.

We Face Intense Competition  

Our businesses are in industries that are highly competitive,
    and no single company dominates an industry. Our competitors
    include large, vertically integrated packaging products and
    paperboard companies and numerous non-integrated smaller
    companies. We generally compete with companies operating in
    North America. Competition from foreign manufacturers in the
    future could negatively impact our sales volumes and pricing.
    Because all of our businesses operate in highly competitive
    industry segments, we regularly bid for sales opportunities to
    customers for new business or for renewal of existing business.
    The loss of business from our larger customers may have a
    significant impact on our results of operations. Further,
    competitive conditions may prevent us from fully recovering
    increased costs and may continue to inhibit our ability to pass
    on cost increases to our customers. Our paperboard
    segment s sales volumes may be directly impacted by changes
    in demand for our packaging products and our laminated
    paperboard products. See    Business  
    Competition.   

We Have Been Dependent on Certain Customers  

Each of our segments has certain large customers, the loss of
    which could have a material adverse effect on the segment s
    sales and, depending on the significance of the loss, our
    results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

We May Incur Business Disruptions  

The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane,
    tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flood, fire, or other
    unanticipated problems could cause operational disruptions or
    short term rises in raw material or energy costs that could
    materially adversely affect our earnings. Any losses due to
    these events may not be covered by our existing insurance
    policies or be subject to certain deductibles.

We May be Unable to Complete and Finance
    Acquisitions  

We have completed several acquisitions in recent years and may
    seek additional acquisition opportunities. There can be no
    assurance that we will successfully be able to identify suitable
    acquisition candidates, complete and finance acquisitions,
    integrate acquired operations into our existing operations or
    expand into new markets. There can also be no assurance that
    future acquisitions will not have an adverse effect upon our
    operating results. Acquired operations may not achieve levels of
    revenues, profitability or productivity comparable with those
    our existing operations achieve, or otherwise perform as
    expected. In addition, it is possible that, in connection with
    acquisitions, our capital expenditures could be higher than we
    anticipated and that we may not realize the expected benefits of
    such capital expenditures.

We are Subject to Extensive Environmental and Other
    Governmental Regulation  

We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign
    environmental laws and regulations, including those regulating
    the discharge, storage, handling and disposal of a variety of
    substances, as well as other financial and non-financial
    regulations.

10

Table of Contents   

We regularly make capital expenditures to maintain compliance
    with applicable environmental laws and regulations. However,
    environmental laws and regulations are becoming increasingly
    stringent. Consequently, our compliance and remediation costs
    could increase materially. In addition, we cannot currently
    assess the impact that the future emissions standards and
    enforcement practices will have on our operations or capital
    expenditure requirements. Further, we have been identified as a
    potentially responsible party at various  superfund 
    sites pursuant to CERCLA or comparable state statutes. See
       Note 18. Commitments and Contingencies 
      of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. There
    can be no assurance that any liability we may incur in
    connection with these superfund sites or other governmental
    regulation will not be material to our results of operations,
    financial condition or cash flows.

We May Incur Additional Restructuring Costs  

We have restructured portions of our operations from time to
    time in recent years and it is possible that we may engage in
    additional restructuring opportunities. Because we are not able
    to predict with certainty market conditions, the loss of large
    customers, or the selling prices for our products, we also may
    not be able to predict with certainty when it will be
    appropriate to undertake restructurings. It is also possible, in
    connection with these restructuring efforts, that our costs
    could be higher than we anticipate and that we may not realize
    the expected benefits.

We May Incur Increased Transportation Costs  

We distribute our products primarily by truck and rail. Reduced
    availability of truck or rail carriers could negatively impact
    our ability to ship our products in a timely manner. There can
    be no assurance that we will be able to recoup any past or
    future increases in transportation rates or fuel surcharges
    through price increases for our products.

We May Incur Increased Employee Benefit Costs  

Our pension and health care benefits are dependent upon multiple
    factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of
    future experience. Our pension plan assets are primarily made up
    of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in market
    performance and changes in interest rates may result in
    increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Changes
    in assumptions regarding expected long-term rate of return on
    plan assets, changes in our discount rate or expected
    compensation levels could also increase or decrease pension
    costs. Future pension funding requirements, and the timing of
    funding payments, may be subject to changes in legislation.

Item 1B.      

UNRESOLVED
    STAFF COMMENTS   

Not applicable   there are no unresolved staff
    comments.

Item 2.      

PROPERTIES   

We operate at a total of 92 locations. These facilities are
    located in 26 states (mainly in the Eastern and Midwestern
    U.S.), Canada, Mexico, Chile and Argentina. We own our principal
    executive offices in Norcross, Georgia. There are 30 owned and
    12 leased facilities used by operations in our Packaging
    Products segment, 23 owned and 1 leased facility used by
    operations in our Paperboard segment, 1 owned and 17 leased
    facilities used by operations in our Merchandising Displays
    segment, and 5 owned and 2 leased facilities used by operations
    in our Corrugated segment. We believe that our existing
    production capacity is adequate to serve existing demand for our
    products. We consider our plants and equipment to be in good
    condition.

11

Table of Contents   

The following table shows information about our paperboard
    mills. We own all of our mills.

(1)  

Reflects the production capacity of a paperboard machine that
    manufactures gypsum paperboard liner and is owned by our Seven
    Hills joint venture. 

The following is a list of our significant facilities other than
    our paperboard mills:

Type of Facility 

Locations 

Owned or Leased 

Merchandising Display Operations

Winston-Salem, NC 
    (sales, design, manufacturing and contract packing)

Owned

Headquarters

Norcross, GA

Owned

Item 3.      

LEGAL
    PROCEEDINGS   

We are a party to litigation incidental to our business from
    time to time. We are not currently a party to any litigation
    that management believes, if determined adversely to us, would
    have a material adverse effect on our results of operations,
    financial condition or cash flows. For additional information
    regarding litigation to which we are a party, which is
    incorporated by reference into this item, see
       Note 18. Commitments and
    Contingencies    of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Item 4.      

SUBMISSION
    OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   

Not applicable   there were no matters submitted to a
    vote of security holders in our fourth fiscal quarter.

12

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.      

MARKET
    FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER  
    MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   

Common
    Stock  

Our Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share
     ( Common Stock  ), trades on the New York Stock
    Exchange under the symbol RKT. As of November 2, 2006,
    there were approximately 366 shareholders of record of our
    Common Stock.

Price
    Range of Common Stock  

Dividends  

During fiscal 2006 and 2005, we paid a quarterly dividend on our
    Common Stock of $0.09 per share ($0.36 per share
    annually).

For additional dividend information, see Item 6,
       Selected Financial Data.   

Securities
    Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation
    Plans  

The section under the heading    Executive
    Compensation    entitled    Equity
    Compensation Plan Information    in the Proxy
    Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
    January 26, 2007, which will be filed with the SEC on or
    before December 31, 2006, is incorporated herein by
    reference.

For additional information concerning our capitalization, see
       Note 15. Shareholders  Equity 
      of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Item 6.      

SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA   

The following selected consolidated financial data should be
    read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements
    and Notes thereto and    Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations    included herein. We derived the
    consolidated statements of income and consolidated statements of
    cash flows data for the years ended September 30, 2006,
    2005, and 2004, and the consolidated balance sheet data as of
    September 30, 2006 and 2005, from the Consolidated
    Financial Statements included herein. We derived the
    consolidated statements of income and consolidated statements of
    cash flows data for the years ended September 30, 2003 and
    2002, and the consolidated balance sheet data as of
    September 30, 2004, 2003, and 2002, from audited
    Consolidated Financial Statements not included in this report.
    We reclassified our plastic packaging operations, which we sold
    in October 2003, as a discontinued operation on the consolidated
    statements of income for all periods presented. We have also
    presented the assets and liabilities of our plastic packaging
    operations as assets and liabilities held for sale for all
    periods presented on our consolidated balance sheets. The table
    that follows is consistent with those presentations.

13

Table of Contents   

On June 6, 2005, we acquired from Gulf States substantially
    all of the GSPP assets. The GSPP Acquisition was the primary
    reason for the changes in the selected financial data beginning
    in fiscal 2005. The results of operations shown below may not be
    indicative of future results.

Notes (in millions):

14

Table of Contents   

Item 7.      

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS   

Segment
    and Market Information  

At the end of fiscal 2006 we revised our segment disclosures to
    separately present a Corrugated segment previously included in
    the Merchandising Display segment. The Corrugated segment
    includes our corrugated packaging operations that primarily
    consist of our corrugators and sheet plants. Our St. Paul
    recycled corrugated medium mill remains in our Paperboard
    segment. The financial statements presented have been
    reclassified to reflect this revision.

We report our results in four segments: (1) Packaging
    Products, (2) Paperboard, (3) Merchandising Displays,
    and (4) Corrugated.

The following table shows certain operating data for our four
    segments. We do not allocate certain of our income and expenses
    to our segments and, thus, the information that management uses
    to make operating decisions and assess performance does not
    reflect such amounts. We report these items as non-allocated
    expenses or in other line items in the table below after Total
    Segment Income.

15

Table of Contents   

Overview  

Segment income increased $41.5 million in fiscal 2006 based
    on the performance in our two largest business segments,
    synergies we continue to realize from the GSPP Acquisition and
    lower fiber prices. Good demand and pricing improvements for
    recycled paperboard, and the full year impact of the acquisition
    of our bleached paperboard mill, resulted in much higher
    earnings in our paperboard mills and increased Paperboard
    segment income approximately 96.8% over the prior year. Sales
    growth in our core folding carton business and the contributions
    from the folding carton plants acquired in June 2005 as part of
    the GSPP Acquisition increased Packaging Products segment income
    34.7% over the prior year. Partially offsetting these
    improvements were increased energy costs, a mechanical failure
    of the white liquor clarifier at our bleached paperboard mill
    and operating losses at our Mexico display facility that we sold
    in October 2006.

Due to capacity closures of competing coated recycled paperboard
    mills in fiscal 2006 we began to see improved operating rates at
    our coated recycled paperboard mills. We expect this trend to
    continue in the near future. We expect to realize higher prices
    in fiscal 2007 for recycled paperboard and corrugated medium.

Our Net Debt (as hereinafter defined, see
      Non-GAAP Measure   below) was
    $788.8 million at September 30, 2006 compared to
    $876.0 at September 30, 2005. We reduced Net Debt by
    $87.2 million in fiscal 2006. During fiscal 2006 we paid
    $7.8 million for the purchase of businesses and contributed
    $20.6 million to our pension plans.

On October 1, 2005, we adopted the fair value recognition
    provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 123 (revised 2004),   Share-Based
    Payment   (  SFAS 123(R)  ) using
    the modified prospective method, and thereby recognized combined
    employee stock purchase plan expense and stock option expense of
    $0.6 million (net of $0.4 million income taxes) or
    $0.02 per share during fiscal 2006. See
       Note 15. Shareholders  Equity 
      of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Results
    of Operations  

We provide below quarterly information to reflect trends in our
    results of operations. For additional discussion of quarterly
    information, see our quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q 
    filed with the SEC and    Note 20. Financial
    Results by Quarter (Unaudited)    of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Net
    Sales (Unaffiliated Customers)   

Net sales for fiscal 2006 increased 23.3% to
    $2,138.1 million compared to $1,733.5 million in
    fiscal 2005 primarily due to the June 2005 GSPP Acquisition.
    Excluding the net increase of $324.5 million of net sales
    from the acquired assets, our sales increased by 5.1%.

Net sales for fiscal 2005 increased 9.6% to
    $1,733.5 million compared to $1,581.3 million in
    fiscal 2004 primarily due to the June 2005 GSPP Acquisition.
    Excluding the net increase of $176.2 million of net sales
    from the acquired assets, our sales decreased by 1.5%.

16

Table of Contents   

Net
    Sales (Aggregate)   Packaging Products
    Segment   

The 27.5% increase in net sales before intersegment eliminations
    for the Packaging Products segment in fiscal 2006 compared to
    fiscal 2005 was primarily due to sales resulting from the GSPP
    Acquisition, the partition business we acquired and higher
    demand for consumer packaging.

The 9.5% increase in Packaging Products segment net sales before
    intersegment eliminations in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004
    was primarily due to net sales resulting from the GSPP
    Acquisition, which accounted for net sales of
    $119.6 million.

Net
    Sales (Aggregate)   Paperboard Segment   

The 33.2% increase in Paperboard segment net sales before
    intersegment eliminations in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005
    was primarily due to bleached paperboard and market pulp net
    sales from our GSPP Acquisition, strong demand for recycled
    paperboard in part due to capacity closures of competing coated
    recycled mills and higher pricing. Recycled paperboard tons
    shipped increased 4.3% compared to the same period last year. We
    expect to see some further price increases in the early part of
    fiscal 2007 as a result of price increases we previously
    announced. However, the impact of announced board price
    increases will be dictated, in part, by market forces that
    determine the timing and extent of our recovery of the
    increases. During fiscal 2006, our recycled mills operated at
    96% of capacity compared to 92% in fiscal 2005. Recycled
    paperboard tons shipped in fiscal 2006 for the segment were
    1,063,115 tons compared to 1,019,139 tons shipped in fiscal
    2005. We sold 320,249 tons of bleached paperboard and 86,569
    tons of market pulp in fiscal 2006, compared to 110,882 tons of
    bleached paperboard and 30,037 tons of market pulp in the four
    months we owned the contributing assets in fiscal 2005.

The 14.0% increase in Paperboard segment net sales before
    intersegment eliminations in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004
    was primarily due to net sales from the GSPP Acquisition and
    higher selling prices for recycled paperboard. The effect of the
    higher sales prices during the period was more than offset by a
    decrease in tons shipped by our coated recycled and specialty
    paperboard mills. During fiscal 2005, our recycled mills
    operated at 92% of capacity compared to 96% in fiscal 2004.
    Recycled paperboard tons shipped in fiscal 2005 for the segment
    were 1,019,139 tons compared to 1,130,004 tons shipped in fiscal
    2004. As a result of the GSPP Acquisition we sold 110,882 tons
    of bleached paperboard and 30,037 tons of market pulp,
    respectively.

Net
    Sales (Aggregate)   Merchandising Displays
    Segment   

The 3.0% increase in Merchandising Displays segment net sales
    before intersegment eliminations for fiscal 2006 compared to
    fiscal 2005 was primarily due to increased display sales driven
    by a strong fourth quarter for promotional orders from some of
    our largest customers. We continue to seek to broaden our
    permanent and multi-material display capabilities as well as to
    continue developing theft deterrent solutions for high theft
    products. We

17

Table of Contents   

have made significant progress in the marketplace with our MAX
    PDQ  tm  
    display. We also expect revenues to grow from our new brand
    management group.

The 4.8% decrease in Merchandising Displays segment net sales
    before intersegment eliminations for fiscal 2005 compared to
    fiscal 2004 resulted primarily from a decrease in spending for
    promotional displays.

Net
    Sales (Aggregate)   Corrugated Segment   

The 14.5% increase in Corrugated segment net sales before
    intersegment eliminations for fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal
    2005 was primarily due to increased sales of corrugated sheet
    stock and higher prices.

The 31.8% increase in Corrugated segment net sales before
    intersegment eliminations for fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal
    2004 resulted primarily from our acquisition of the Athens
    corrugator in August 2004  ( Athens
    Acquisition  ), which had net sales of
    $30.5 million in fiscal 2005.

Cost
    of Goods Sold   

Cost of goods sold increased to $1,789.0 million (83.7% of
    net sales) in fiscal 2006 from $1,459.2 million (84.2% of
    net sales) in fiscal 2005 primarily due to the GSPP Acquisition,
    the partition business we acquired, higher raw material prices
    in many of our businesses, increased freight costs, and higher
    energy prices that were partially offset by lower fiber prices.
    On a volume adjusted basis, energy and freight costs at our
    recycled paperboard mills increased $13.0 million and
    $1.7 million, respectively, and were offset by a
    $14.8 million decrease in fiber costs. Excluding amounts
    attributable to the GSPP Acquisition, workers  compensation
    expense increased $3.0 million and group insurance expense
    decreased $4.4 million during fiscal 2006 compared to
    fiscal 2005. We have foreign currency transaction risk primarily
    due to our operations in Canada. See    Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    Foreign Currency    below. The impact of foreign
    currency transactions in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005
    decreased costs of goods sold by $0.6 million.

Cost of goods sold increased to $1,459.2 million (84.2% of
    net sales) in fiscal 2005 from $1,314.0 million (83.1% of
    net sales) in fiscal 2004 primarily due to the GSPP Acquisition.
    Fiber, energy, chemical and freight costs at our recycled
    paperboard mills increased $4.1 million, $6.6 million,
    $2.2 million, and $8.4 million, respectively, on a
    volume adjusted basis. Excluding amounts attributable to the
    GSPP Acquisition, group insurance expense increased
    $1.1 million, and workers  compensation expense and
    pension expense decreased $2.3 million and
    $1.3 million, respectively. The impact of foreign currency
    transactions in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 increased
    costs of goods sold by $0.8 million.

We value the majority of our U.S. inventories at the lower
    of cost or market with cost determined on the
     last-in 
    first-out (  LIFO  ), inventory valuation method,
    which we believe generally results in a better matching of
    current costs and revenues than under the
     first-in 
    first-out (  FIFO  ), inventory valuation method.
    In periods of increasing costs, the LIFO method generally
    results in higher cost of goods sold than under the FIFO method.
    In periods of decreasing costs, the results are generally the
    opposite.

The following table illustrates the comparative effect of LIFO
    and FIFO accounting on our results of operations. This
    supplemental FIFO earnings information reflects the after-tax
    effect of eliminating the LIFO adjustment each year.

18

Table of Contents   

Net income in fiscal 2006 and 2004 is higher under the FIFO
    method since we experienced periods of rising costs. Net income
    is higher in fiscal 2005 under the LIFO method than the FIFO
    method. Generally accepted accounting principles requires that
    inventory acquired in an acquisition be valued at selling price
    less costs to sell, dispose and complete. This value is
    generally higher than the cost to manufacture inventory. For the
    GSPP Acquisition in fiscal 2005, the inventory value computed in
    this manner was $7.3 million higher than the cost to
    manufacture. This
     step-up 
    would have been expensed under the FIFO method. Under our LIFO
    inventory method, this higher cost remains in inventory until
    the inventory layer represented by this inventory is consumed.
    To the extent inventory levels acquired in the GSPP Acquisition
    are lowered in the future, cost of goods sold could be higher
    than the normal cost to manufacture.

Selling,
    General and Administrative Expenses   

Selling, general and administrative
     ( SG )  expenses decreased as a percentage
    of net sales to 11.4% in fiscal 2006 from 11.8% in fiscal 2005
    primarily as a result of the synergies we realized following the
    GSPP Acquisition and our continued focus on cost reductions and
    efficiency. SG&A expenses were $39.2 million higher
    than in the prior year primarily as a result of SG&A
    expenses from the GSPP locations and the partition business we
    acquired. Additionally, excluding amounts attributable to the
    GSPP Acquisition, bonus expense increased $7.6 million;
    SG&A salaries increased $5.0 million primarily due to
    the partition business we acquired and to support other product
    offerings; stock-based compensation expense increased
    $1.7 million primarily due to the adoption of
    SFAS 123(R) and bad debt expense increased
    $1.4 million compared to the prior year resulting from
    increased total exposure to and decreases in the credit quality
    of several customers.

SG&A expenses decreased as a percentage of net sales to
    11.8% in fiscal 2005 from 12.5% in fiscal 2004 primarily as a
    result of the synergies we realized following the GSPP
    Acquisition and our continued focus on cost reductions and
    efficiency. SG&A expenses were $7.9 million higher than
    fiscal 2004 primarily as a result of SG&A from the GSPP
    locations we acquired, the third party costs we incurred to
    comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which were approximately
    $3.4 million, and increased amortization expense of
    $1.1 million from the GSPP Acquisition. Bad debt expense
    decreased $2.5 million, and bonus expense and commission
    expense, excluding the impact of the GSPP Acquisition, decreased
    $2.9 million and $2.0 million, respectively.

Acquisitions   

On February 27, 2006, our RTS subsidiary completed the
    acquisition of the partition business of Caraustar Industries,
    Inc. for an aggregate purchase price of $6.1 million. This
    acquisition was funded by capital contributions by us and our
    partner in proportion to our investments in RTS. We accounted
    for this acquisition as a purchase of a business and have
    included these operations in our consolidated financial
    statements since that date in our Packaging Products segment.
    RTS made the acquisition in order to gain entrance into the
    specialty partition market that manufactures high quality
    die-cut partitions. The acquisition resulted in
    $2.4 million of goodwill. We expect the goodwill to be
    deductible for income tax purposes. The pro forma impact of the
    acquisition is not material to our financial results.

On June 6, 2005, we acquired from Gulf States substantially
    all of the GSPP assets and operations and assumed certain of
    Gulf States  related liabilities. We have included the
    results of GSPP s operations in our consolidated financial
    statements since that date in our Paperboard segment and
    Packaging Products segment. In fiscal 2005, we recorded the
    aggregate purchase price for the GSPP Acquisition of
    $552.2 million, net of cash received of $0.7 million,
    including various expenses. As a result of the GSPP Acquisition
    we recorded goodwill and intangibles. We assigned the goodwill
    to our Paperboard and Packaging Products segments in the amounts
    of $37.2 million and $13.8 million, respectively. We
    expect all $51.0 million of the goodwill to be deductible
    for tax purposes. We recorded $50.7 million of intangible
    assets and incurred $4.0 million of financing costs to
    finance the acquisition. We assigned the customer relationship
    intangibles to our Paperboard and Packaging Products segments in
    the amounts of $36.4 million and $14.3 million,
    respectively. The customer relationship intangibles lives vary
    by segment acquired, and we are amortizing them on a
    straight-line basis over a weighted average life of
    22.3 years. The pro forma impact of the GSPP Acquisition
    was material to our consolidated financial results for fiscal
    2005.

For additional information, see    Note 6.
    Acquisitions    of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

19

Table of Contents   

Restructuring
    and Other Costs, Net   

We recorded pre-tax restructuring and other costs, net of
    $7.8 million, $7.5 million, and $32.7 million for
    fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. These amounts are not
    comparable since the timing and scope of the individual actions
    associated with a restructuring can vary. For additional
    information, see    Note 7. Restructuring and
    Other Costs, Net    of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Segment
    Income  

Segment
    Income   Packaging Products Segment   

Packaging Products segment income increased to
    $45.0 million in fiscal 2006 from $33.4 million in
    fiscal 2005 primarily due to the earnings from the plants we
    acquired in the GSPP Acquisition. Return on sales increased
    despite increased material costs. Excluding amounts attributable
    to the GSPP Acquisition, segment income for the segment was
    decreased by increased bonus expense of $3.7 million,
    higher freight costs of $6.7 million and increased bad debt
    expense of $0.4 million; partially offsetting those costs
    was a decrease in group insurance expense of $2.3 million.
    Amortization expense increased $1.5 million due to
    intangible assets acquired in the GSPP Acquisition.

Packaging Products segment income decreased to
    $33.4 million in fiscal 2005 from $38.0 million in
    fiscal 2004. Our operating margin for fiscal 2005 was 3.4%
    compared to 4.2% in fiscal 2004. The GSPP folding plants were
    net contributors to folding operating profit, but the decrease
    in segment income for the segment was primarily due to lower
    folding sales volumes in plants owned for the full year and
    higher operating costs. Additionally, excluding amounts
    attributable to the GSPP Acquisition, freight expense increased
    $1.3 million primarily due to increased fuel surcharges,
    and group insurance expense increased $0.7 million. Bad
    debt expense decreased $1.5 million, workers 
    compensation expense decreased $1.3 million, and sales
    commissions decreased $0.9 million due to the mix of
    commissionable sales.

20

Table of Contents   

Segment
    Income   Paperboard Segment   

(a)  

Recycled Paperboard Tons Shipped and Average Price Per Ton
    include tons shipped by Seven Hills. 

(b)  

Bleached paperboard and market pulp tons shipped began in June
    2005 as a result of the GSPP Acquisition. 

(c)  

Beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, Average Price Per
    Ton includes coated and specialty recycled paperboard,
    corrugated medium, bleached paperboard and market pulp. 

Paperboard segment income for fiscal 2006 increased to
    $62.2 million compared to $31.6 million in fiscal 2005
    due to increased operating rates and pricing improvements for
    recycled paperboard and income contributed from the acquired
    bleached paperboard mill. Segment income was reduced by the
    sharp increase in natural gas prices following Hurricanes
    Katrina and Rita; the annual maintenance shutdown in October and
    November 2005 of our bleached paperboard mill; a mechanical
    failure of the white liquor clarifier at our bleached paperboard
    mill; and a flood at one of our recycled paperboard mills. Our
    recycled paperboard mills operated at 96% of capacity in fiscal
    2006 compared to 92% in the same period last year. On a volume
    adjusted basis, energy and freight costs at our recycled
    paperboard mills increased $13.0 million and
    $1.7 million, respectively, and were offset by a
    $14.8 million decrease in fiber costs. Our bleached
    paperboard mill operated at 98% of capacity in fiscal 2006.
    Additionally, group insurance expense decreased by
    $2.0 million and amortization expense increased
    $0.9 million due to the GSPP Acquisition.

In fiscal 2006, we received $4.3 million of insurance
    proceeds, after $3.9 million of deductibles, for
    $1.5 million of property damage claims and
    $2.8 million of business interruption claims. The proceeds
    from the property damage claims were used to return certain
    equipment to its original condition, perform plant clean-up, and
    replace other equipment that was damaged in the two events
    mentioned above.

Paperboard segment income for fiscal 2005 increased to
    $31.6 million compared to $15.7 million in fiscal 2004
    due to the GSPP Acquisition and higher selling prices for
    recycled paperboard. Our operating margin for fiscal 2005
    increased to 5.1% from 2.9% in fiscal 2004 as a result of higher
    margin sales from the GSPP Acquisition and increased selling
    prices. In our recycled mills, sales price increases were
    significantly offset by the aggregate increase of $21 per
    ton in fiber, energy, chemical and freight costs compared to the
    prior fiscal year. In our recycled paperboard mills, fiber costs
    increased $4.1 million, energy costs increased
    $6.6 million, chemical costs increased $2.2 million,
    and freight costs increased $8.4 million on a volume
    adjusted basis. Additionally, adjusted for the GSPP Acquisition,
    bad debt expense decreased $0.9 million, and bonus expense
    increased $0.8 million.

21

Table of Contents   

Segment
    Income   Merchandising Displays Segment   

Merchandising Displays segment income in fiscal 2006 decreased
    to $16.4 million from $17.6 million in fiscal 2005.
    Increased raw material prices and increased freight expense of
    $1.0 million reduced segment income. SG&A salaries
    increased $2.7 million primarily to support new product
    offerings and bad debt expense increased $0.3 million.

Merchandising Displays segment income in fiscal 2005 decreased
    to $17.6 million from $24.0 million in fiscal 2004.
    Our operating margin for fiscal 2005 decreased to 7.8% from
    10.1% in fiscal 2004. The decline in the operating margin was
    the result of weaker than expected sales in the first and fourth
    fiscal quarters. Freight expense increased $0.4 million,
    primarily due to increased fuel surcharges, sales commissions
    decreased $1.2 million due to the mix of commissionable
    sales, and bonus expense decreased $1.8 million.

22

Table of Contents   

Segment
    Income   Corrugated Segment   

Corrugated segment income in fiscal 2006 increased to
    $4.0 million from $3.5 million in fiscal 2005 due
    primarily to increased net sales. Increased raw material prices
    and increased freight expense of $0.5 million reduced
    segment income.

Corrugated segment income in fiscal 2005 decreased to
    $3.5 million from $5.1 million in fiscal 2004. Our
    operating margin for fiscal 2005 decreased to 3.0% from 5.7% in
    fiscal 2004. The decline in the operating margin was the result
    of higher material costs, a $1.1 million pre-tax loss at
    our Athens Corrugator that we acquired August 2004. Freight
    expense increased $1.3 million, primarily due to increased
    volumes and fuel surcharges.

Interest
    Expense   

Interest expense for fiscal 2006 increased 51.9%, or
    $19.0 million, to $55.6 million from
    $36.6 million for fiscal 2005 due primarily to our
    increased debt levels to fund the GSPP Acquisition. The increase
    in our average outstanding borrowings increased interest expense
    by approximately $16.9 million and higher interest rates,
    net of swaps, increased interest expense by approximately
    $2.1 million.

Interest expense for fiscal 2005 increased 55.1%, or
    $13.0 million, to $36.6 million from
    $23.6 million for fiscal 2004. The increase was primarily
    attributable to our increased debt to fund the GSPP Acquisition.
    The increase in our average outstanding borrowings increased
    interest expense by approximately $7.6 million. An increase
    in our effective interest rates, net of swaps, resulted in
    increased interest expense of approximately $5.4 million.

Interest
    and Other Income   

Interest and other income for fiscal 2006 was $1.6 million
    compared to $0.5 million in the same period last year. In
    the second quarter of fiscal 2006 we sold our Dallas Recycle
    equipment and the majority of the customers from that facility
    and received proceeds of $0.9 million and recorded a gain
    on the sale of $0.6 million. We sold our Fort Worth
    Recycle facility in the third fiscal quarter of 2006. We
    received proceeds of $2.1 million and recorded a gain on
    sale of $0.7 million. These facilities were immaterial for
    reporting as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
    Interest and other income for fiscal 2005 was $0.5 million
    compared to an expense of $0.1 million in fiscal 2004.

23

Table of Contents   

Minority
    Interest   

Minority interest in income of our consolidated subsidiaries for
    fiscal 2006 increased 33.3% to $6.4 million from
    $4.8 million in fiscal 2005. The increase was primarily due
    to our acquisition of a 60% ownership share in GSD as part of
    the GSPP Acquisition which we owned for the full year in fiscal
    2006 and only four months in fiscal 2005.

Minority interest in income of our consolidated subsidiaries for
    fiscal 2005 increased 41.2% to $4.8 million from
    $3.4 million in 2004. The increase was primarily due to our
    acquisition of a 60% ownership share in GSD as part of the GSPP
    Acquisition.

Provision
    for Income Taxes   

For fiscal 2006, we recorded a provision for income taxes of
    $9.9 million, resulting in an effective rate of 25.8% of
    pre-tax income, as compared to a provision of $2.3 million
    for fiscal 2005, resulting in an effective rate of 11.3% of
    pre-tax income. In fiscal 2006, we adjusted the rate at which
    our deferred taxes are computed for state income tax purposes on
    our domestic operating entities from approximately 4% to
    approximately 3%. This was based upon our judgment regarding the
    expected long-term effective tax rates applicable to such items.
    As a result, we recorded a tax benefit of $2.4 million.
    This benefit was offset by net expense of $0.4 million
    resulting from Quebec provincial and Canadian federal tax law
    changes that we recorded in the first and third quarters of
    fiscal 2006, respectively. We recorded an additional benefit in
    fiscal 2006 of $0.8 million for research and development
    and other tax credits, net of valuation allowance primarily
    related to prior years. Our fiscal 2005 provision reflects a
    benefit due to a $4.1 million reduction of tax contingency
    reserves resulting from the adjustment and resolution of federal
    and state tax deductions that we had previously reserved. Other
    adjustments to the statutory federal tax rate are more fully
    described in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements included herein. We estimate that the annual domestic
    marginal effective income tax rate for fiscal 2006 was
    approximately 38%.

For fiscal 2005, we recorded a provision for income taxes of
    $2.3 million, resulting in an effective rate of 11.3% of
    pre-tax income, as compared to a provision of $0.9 million
    for fiscal 2004, resulting in an effective rate of 24.4% of
    pre-tax income. In fiscal 2004, we reorganized our corporate
    structure and, as a result, reduced the number of our corporate
    entities which resulted in changes to certain income
    apportionment factors and a correction of an allocation of
    intercompany charges. As a result, we recorded a one-time income
    tax benefit of $3.2 million. Approximately
    $1.2 million of the benefit relates to the filing of
    amended tax returns for fiscal years 2001 and 2002 and
    comparable adjustments made to the fiscal 2003 tax returns. The
    impact of the $1.2 million was not material to our net
    income for any prior fiscal years; therefore, we recorded the
    cumulative impact in fiscal 2004. Approximately
    $2.0 million of the tax benefit in fiscal 2004 related to a
    reduction in a valuation allowance for net operating loss
    carry-forwards  ( NOLs  ) and credits that we had
    previously concluded may not be realizable but which we
    determined as a result of the restructuring of our corporate
    entities, would be realizable in future years.

During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we repatriated, from
    certain of our foreign subsidiaries, $33.6 million in
    extraordinary dividends, as allowed under the American Jobs
    Creation Act of 2004. This Act created a temporary incentive for
    United States corporations to repatriate accumulated income
    earned abroad by allowing a deduction from US taxable income of
    an amount equal to 85% of certain dividends received from
    controlled foreign corporations. As a result of this
    repatriation, we expect to pay $2.3 million of United
    States taxes.

Discontinued
    Operations   

Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, was
    $8.0 million in fiscal 2004. In the first quarter of fiscal
    2004, we completed the sale of our plastic packaging division
    and the sale of certain assets and liabilities of a plant that
    we acquired in the January 2003 acquisition of Groupe Cartem
    Wilco Inc. (  Cartem Wilco  ). We received cash
    proceeds of approximately $59.0 million from the sale of
    the plastic packaging division and we recorded an after-tax gain
    of approximately $7.3 million. The sale of certain Cartem
    Wilco assets and liabilities resulted in no gain or loss and we
    received cash proceeds of approximately $2.9 million. We
    have reclassified the results of operations for these components
    as income from discontinued operations, net of tax, on the
    consolidated statements in fiscal 2004.

24

Table of Contents   

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

Working
    Capital and Capital Expenditures   

We fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures
    and acquisitions from net cash provided by operating activities,
    borrowings under term notes, our receivables-backed financing
    facility and bank credit facilities, proceeds from the sale of
    idled assets, and proceeds received in connection with the
    issuance of industrial development revenue bonds as well as
    other debt and equity securities.

The sum of cash and cash equivalents was $6.9 million at
    September 30, 2006, compared to $26.8 million at
    September 30, 2005, an aggregate decrease of
    $19.9 million. Our debt balance at September 30, 2006,
    was $806.1 million compared with $915.1 million on
    September 30, 2005, a decrease of $109.0 million,
    which primarily reflects payments on the debt incurred to
    finance the GSPP Acquisition. We are exposed to changes in
    interest rates as a result of our short-term and long-term debt.
    We use interest rate swap instruments to manage the interest
    rate characteristics of a portion of our outstanding debt. In
    June and September 2005, we entered into $350.0 million
    notional amount and $75.0 million notional amount of
     floating-to-fixed 
    interest rate swaps, respectively, and designated them as cash
    flow hedges of a like amount of our floating rate debt. We
    terminated these swaps and in February 2006 realized net
    proceeds of $9.9 million. We entered into new swaps for
    notional amounts totaling $425.0 million concurrently with
    the termination. We terminated these swaps in June 2006. We
    realized net proceeds of $4.6 million upon termination. We
    entered into new swaps for $390.0 million notional amount
    concurrently with the termination. Subsequent to
    September 30, 2006, we terminated one of these swaps, with
    a notional amount of $100.0 million, at minimal cost. In
    fiscal 2005, we financed the GSPP Acquisition of
    $552.2 million, including related costs, with
    $420.0 million in financing from a new secured credit
    facility (  Senior Credit Facility  ) that we
    entered into contemporaneously with the closing of the GSPP
    Acquisition, $70.1 million in financing from our then
    existing $75.0 million receivables-backed financing
    facility and cash on hand.

At the time of the GSPP Acquisition, we established a goal to
    reduce our Net Debt (as hereinafter defined) by
    $180 million by September 2007. For this goal, we assumed
    our Net Debt would equal our March 31, 2005 Net Debt of
    $396.3 million plus the purchase price of
    $552.4 million, including $2.8 million of fees, and
    that we would reduce our Net Debt to $768.7 million by
    September 2007. Our actual Net Debt at the end of
    September 30, 2006 was $788.8 million, implying that
    we reduced Net Debt by $159.9 million. We are ahead of our
    expectations for Net Debt reduction after the GSPP Acquisition.

The Senior Credit Facility includes revolving credit, swing,
    term loan, and letters of credit facilities with an aggregate
    original principal amount of $700.0 million. The Senior
    Credit Facility is pre-payable at any time and is scheduled to
    expire on June 6, 2010. Certain restrictive covenants
    govern our maximum availability under this facility, including:
    Minimum Consolidated Interest Ratio Coverage; Maximum Leverage
    Ratio; and Minimum Consolidated Net Worth; as those terms are
    defined by the Senior Credit Facility. We test and report our
    compliance with these covenants each quarter. We are well within
    compliance at September 30, 2006. At September 30,
    2006, due to the covenants in the Senior Credit Facility,
    maximum additional available borrowings under this facility were
    approximately $115.5 million. At September 30, 2006
    and 2005, we had $86.9 million and $216.0 million
    outstanding under the revolving credit portion of our Senior
    Credit Facility, respectively. The Senior Credit Facility
    provides for up to $100.0 million in revolving credit to a
    Canadian subsidiary. At September 30, 2006,
    $49.8 million of the total revolving borrowings were to
    this Canadian subsidiary. We had $243.7 million and
    $250.0 million outstanding under the term loan facility at
    September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005,
    respectively. We have aggregate outstanding letters of credit
    under this facility of approximately $37 million. We have a
     364-day 
    receivables-backed financing facility. On October 26, 2005,
    we amended the receivables-backed financing facility
     ( Receivables Facility  ) and increased the
    maximum borrowing availability from $75.0 to
    $100.0 million. This facility expired on October 25,
    2006. We amended the facility, and the facility is scheduled to
    expire on November 16, 2007. Borrowing availability under
    this facility is based on the eligible underlying receivables.
    At September 30, 2006, maximum available borrowings under
    this facility were approximately $100 million. At
    September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, we had
    $90.0 million and $55.0 million, respectively
    outstanding under our receivables-backed financing facility. For
    additional information regarding our outstanding debt, our
    credit facilities and their securitization, see
       Note 10. Debt    of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

25

Table of Contents   

Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2006 and
    2005 was $153.5 million and $153.3 million,
    respectively. In fiscal 2006, proceeds from the termination of
    interest rate swap contracts and higher earnings before
    depreciation and amortization resulting from the GSPP
    Acquisition were offset by increases in working capital and
    pension funding more than expense. The increase in working
    capital in fiscal 2006 was primarily due to higher inventories
    and accounts receivable offset by higher accounts payables
    resulting from a change in timing of vendor payments. Net cash
    provided by operating activities for fiscal 2005 was
    $153.3 million and $93.5 million in fiscal 2004. The
    increase was primarily due to higher income from continuing
    operations, increased depreciation and amortization, and net
    decreases in working capital. The net decreases in working
    capital were primarily due to a reduction in accounts receivable
    and inventories. Net cash provided by operating activities for
    fiscal 2004 was reduced by $9.9 million of cash taxes paid
    on the sale of our plastic packaging division, which we are
    required to record as a reduction of net cash provided by
    operating activities.

Net cash used for investing activities was $67.0 million
    during fiscal 2006 compared to $572.5 million in fiscal
    2005. Net cash used for investing activities in fiscal 2006
    consisted primarily of $64.6 million of capital
    expenditures. Additionally, cash paid for the purchase of
    businesses was $7.8 million primarily for two Packaging
    Products segment acquisitions. Net cash used for investing
    activities was $572.5 million in fiscal 2005 compared to
    $36.3 million in fiscal 2004. Net cash used for investing
    activities consisted primarily of the $552.2 million
    purchase price of the GSPP Acquisition, $54.3 million of
    capital expenditures that were partially offset by net sales of
    $28.2 million of marketable securities, and proceeds from
    the sale of property, plant and equipment of $6.0 million,
    primarily from previously idled facilities and equipment. In
    fiscal 2004, net cash used for investing activities consisted
    primarily of capital expenditures of $60.8 million, and net
    purchases of $28.2 million of marketable securities, and
    our Athens Corrugator acquisition for which the purchase price
    was $13.7 million, and were largely offset by the
    $59.0 million that we received from the sale of the plastic
    packaging division and $2.9 million that we received from
    the sale of certain Cartem Wilco assets and liabilities.

Net cash used for financing activities was $105.8 million
    during fiscal 2006 and cash provided by financing activities was
    $416.5 million in fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2006 net cash
    used consisted primarily of net repayments of debt, cash
    dividends paid to shareholders, and distributions to minority
    interest partners, which were partially offset by issuances of
    Common Stock and advances from joint venture. Net cash provided
    by financing activities was $416.5 million in fiscal 2005
    and net cash used for financing activities was
    $43.2 million in fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2005, net cash
    provided consisted primarily of net additions to debt to finance
    the GSPP Acquisition and the issuance of Common Stock, which
    were partially offset by cash dividends paid to shareholders,
    distributions to minority interest partners, payment on
    termination of fair value interest rate hedges, and debt
    issuance costs. In fiscal 2004, net cash used for financing
    activities consisted primarily of net repayments of debt, cash
    dividend payments to shareholders, and distributions to the
    minority interest partner in our RTS joint venture that were
    partially offset by proceeds from monetizing swap contracts and
    the issuance of Common Stock.

In fiscal 2006, we received $4.3 million of insurance
    proceeds, after $3.9 million of deductibles, for
    $1.5 million of property damage claims and
    $2.8 million of business interruption claims. The proceeds
    were used to return certain equipment to its original condition,
    perform plant clean-up, and replace other equipment that was
    damaged. Net cash used for investing activities included
    $0.9 million for capital equipment purchased and the
    balance was classified in cash provided by operating activities.

Our capital expenditures aggregated $64.6 million in fiscal
    2006. We used these expenditures primarily for the purchase and
    upgrading of machinery and equipment. We estimate that our
    capital expenditures will aggregate approximately
    $70 million in fiscal 2007. We are obligated to purchase
    $11.5 million of fixed assets at September 30, 2006.
    We intend to use these expenditures for the purchase and
    upgrading of machinery and equipment, including growth and
    efficiency capital focused on our folding carton business, and
    maintenance capital. We believe that our financial position
    would support higher levels of capital expenditures, if
    justified by opportunities to increase revenues or reduce costs,
    and we continuously review new investment opportunities.
    Accordingly, it is possible that our capital expenditures in
    fiscal 2007 could be higher than currently anticipated.

We estimate that we will spend approximately $3.0 million
    for capital expenditures during fiscal 2007 in connection with
    matters relating to environmental compliance. Additionally, to
    comply with emissions regulations under the Clean Air Act, we
    may be required to modify or replace a coal-fired boiler at one
    of our facilities, the cost

26

Table of Contents   

of which we estimate would be approximately $2.0 to
    $3.0 million. If necessary, we anticipate that we will
    incur those costs during fiscal 2007 and 2008.

Except for the approximately $2.3 million we expect to
    remit in 2006 for the Homeland Investment Act dividend, as a
    result of the step up in basis related to the acquisition of the
    GSPP fixed assets and the associated tax depreciation from these
    assets, we do not anticipate paying any Federal income taxes
    related to fiscal 2006. We do not expect cash tax payments to
    exceed income tax expense in fiscal 2007. We expect cash tax
    payments to exceed income tax expense in fiscal 2008 and 2009,
    primarily as book depreciation begins to exceed tax
    depreciation. Based on current facts and assumptions, we do not
    anticipate these amounts to be material.

In connection with prior dispositions of assets
     and/or 
    subsidiaries, we have made certain guarantees to third parties
    as of September 30, 2006. Our specified maximum aggregate
    potential liability on an undiscounted basis is approximately
    $7.8 million, other than with respect to certain specified
    liabilities, including liabilities relating to title, taxes, and
    certain environmental matters, with respect to which there may
    be no limitation. We estimate the fair value of our aggregate
    liability for outstanding indemnities entered into after
    December 31, 2002, including the indemnities described
    above with respect to which there are no limitations, to be
    approximately $0.1 million. Accordingly, we have recorded a
    liability for that amount. For additional information regarding
    our guarantees, see    Note 18. Commitments and
    Contingencies    of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

We anticipate that we will be able to fund our capital
    expenditures, interest payments, stock repurchases, dividends,
    pension payments, working capital needs, and repayments of
    current portion of long term debt for the foreseeable future
    from cash generated from operations, borrowings under our Senior
    Credit Facility and receivables-backed financing facility,
    proceeds from the issuance of debt or equity securities or other
    additional long-term debt financing.

In November 2006, our board of directors approved a resolution
    to pay our quarterly dividend of $0.09 per share,
    indicating an annualized dividend of $0.36 per year, on our
    Common Stock.

During fiscal 2007 we have minimum pension contributions of
    approximately $13 million to make to the
    U.S. Qualified Plans. Based on current facts and
    assumptions, we anticipate contributing approximately
    $45 million to the U.S. Qualified Plans by the end of
    fiscal 2008.

Contractual
    Obligations   

We summarize in the following table our enforceable and legally
    binding contractual obligations at September 30, 2006, and
    the effect these obligations are expected to have on our
    liquidity and cash flow in future periods. We based some of the
    amounts in this table on management s estimates and
    assumptions about these obligations, including their duration,
    the possibility of renewal, anticipated actions by third
    parties, and other factors. Because these estimates and
    assumptions are subjective, the enforceable and legally binding
    obligations we actually pay in future periods may vary from
    those we have summarized in the table.

(a)  

We have included in the long-term debt line item above amounts
    owed on our note agreements, industrial development revenue
    bonds, and credit agreements. For purposes of this table, we
    assume that all of our long-term debt will be held to maturity.
    We have not included in these amounts interest payable on our
    long-term debt. We have excluded aggregate hedge adjustments
    resulting from terminated interest rate derivatives or swaps of
    $10.4 million and excluded unamortized bond discounts of
    $0.5 million from the table to arrive at  

27

Table of Contents   

actual debt obligations. For information on the interest rates
    applicable to our various debt instruments see
       Note 10. Debt    of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(b)  

For more information, see    Note 11. Leases 
      of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(c)  

Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or
    services that are enforceable and legally binding and that
    specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum
    quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price
    provision; and the approximate timing of the transaction.
    Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable
    without penalty. 

(d)  

Under the terms of the Seven Hills joint venture agreement, our
    joint venture partner has the option to terminate the joint
    venture and require us to purchase its interest in Seven Hills
    on March 29, 2008, and annually thereafter at a formula
    price that would result in a current purchase price of less than
    40% of our joint venture partner s then current book net
    equity investment. At September 30, 2006 we have estimated
    the purchase price to be approximately $8.1 million. We
    have not included the $8.1 million in the table above. 

(e)  

We have not included in the table above an item labeled
     other long-term liabilities reflected on our consolidated
    balance sheet  because none of our other long-term
    liabilities have a definite pay-out scheme. As discussed in
       Note 13. Retirement Plans    of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we have long-term
    liabilities for deferred employee compensation, including
    pension, supplemental retirement plans, and deferred
    compensation. We have not included in the table the payments
    related to the supplemental retirement plans and deferred
    compensation because these amounts are dependent upon, among
    other things, when the employee retires or leaves our company,
    and whether the employee elects lump-sum or installment
    payments. In addition, we have not included in the table minimum
    pension funding requirements because such amounts are not
    available for all periods presented. We estimate that we will
    contribute approximately $13 million to our five qualified
    defined benefit pension plans in fiscal 2007 and based on
    current facts and assumptions expect to contribute
    $45 million to the plans by the end of fiscal 2008. During
    fiscal 2006, we contributed approximately $20.6 million to
    our five qualified defined benefit pension plans. 

In addition to the enforceable and legally binding obligations
    quantified in the table above, we have other obligations for
    goods and services and raw materials entered into in the normal
    course of business. These contracts, however, either are not
    enforceable or legally binding or are subject to change based on
    our business decisions.

For information concerning certain related party transactions,
    see    Note 17. Related Party Transactions 
      of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Unconsolidated
    Joint Venture   

We own 49% of the Seven Hills joint venture with our joint
    venture partner, and account for it under the equity method.
    During fiscal 2006 our share of operating income incurred at
    Seven Hills amounted to $1.9 million. During fiscal 2005
    our share of operating losses incurred at Seven Hills amounted
    to $1.0 million. The loss in fiscal 2005 reflected our
    estimate of our share of the adverse impact of a preliminary
    settlement of arbitration between us and our joint venture
    partner, which was recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2005.
    This arbitration centered on the price we had previously
    charged, and could in the future charge Seven Hills for certain
    energy costs and other services, as well as the price Seven
    Hills had previously charged, and could in the future charge our
    joint venture partner for product sold to our joint venture
    partner. The final settlement notice was received in December
    2005. At that time, we determined that a portion of the adverse
    impact previously recorded no longer was required and the excess
    amount of $1.2 million was released to income in the first
    quarter of fiscal 2006. During fiscal 2004, our share of
    operating income at Seven Hills was $0.1 million. Our
    pre-tax income from the Seven Hills joint venture, including the
    fees we charge the venture and our share of the joint
    venture s net income, was $3.7 million,
    $0.7 million, and $2.8 million for fiscal 2006, 2005,
    and 2004, respectively.

For additional information, see    Note 9.
    Unconsolidated Joint Venture    of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

28

Table of Contents   

Stock
    Repurchase Program   

Our board of directors has approved a stock repurchase plan that
    allows for the repurchase from time to time of shares of Common
    Stock over an indefinite period of time. As of
    September 30, 2006, we had 2.0 million shares of
    Common Stock available for repurchase under the amended
    repurchase plan. Pursuant to our repurchase plan, during fiscal
    2006, 2005, and 2004, we did not repurchase any shares of Common
    Stock.

Expenditures
    for Environmental Compliance  

For a discussion of our expenditures for environmental
    compliance, see Item 1,    Business  
    Governmental Regulation   Environmental
    Regulation.   

Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates  

We have prepared our accompanying consolidated financial
    statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
    accounting principles, which require management to make
    estimates that affect the amounts of revenues, expenses, assets
    and liabilities reported. The following are critical accounting
    matters that are both important to the portrayal of our
    financial condition and results and that require some of
    management s most subjective and complex judgments. The
    accounting for these matters involves the making of estimates
    based on current facts, circumstances and assumptions that, in
    management s judgment, could change in a manner that would
    materially affect management s future estimates with
    respect to such matters and, accordingly, could cause our future
    reported financial condition and results to differ materially
    from those that we are currently reporting based on
    management s current estimates. For additional information,
    see    Note 1. Description of Business and Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies    of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements. See also Item 7A,
       Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk.   

Accounts
    Receivable and Allowances   

We have an allowance for doubtful accounts, returns and
    allowances, and cash discounts that serve to reduce the value of
    our gross accounts receivable to the amount we estimate we will
    ultimately collect. The allowances contain uncertainties because
    the calculation requires management to make assumptions and
    apply judgment regarding the customer s credit worthiness
    and the returns and allowances and cash discounts that may be
    taken by our customers. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of
    our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment
    history and the customer s current credit worthiness, as
    determined by our review of their current credit information. We
    continuously monitor collections from our customers and maintain
    a provision for estimated credit losses based upon our
    customers  financial condition, our collection experience
    and any other relevant customer specific credit information. Our
    assessment of this and other information forms the basis of our
    allowances. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood
    that there will be a material change in the future estimates or
    assumptions we use to estimate the allowances. However, while
    these credit losses have historically been within our
    expectations and the provisions we established, it is possible
    that our credit loss rates could be higher or lower in the
    future depending on changes in business conditions. At
    September 30, 2006, our allowances were $5.2 million;
    a 5% change in our allowance would change our reserve by
    approximately $0.3 million.

Inventory   

We carry our inventories at the lower of cost or market. Cost
    includes materials, labor and overhead. Market, with respect to
    all inventories, is replacement cost or net realizable value,
    depending on the inventory. Management frequently reviews
    inventory to determine the necessity to markdown excess,
    obsolete or unsaleable inventory. Judgment and uncertainty
    exists with respect to this estimate because it requires
    management to assess customer and market demand. These estimates
    may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have overstated
    or understated the markdown required for excess, obsolete or
    unsaleable inventory. We have not made any material changes in
    the accounting methodology used to markdown inventory during the
    past three fiscal years. We do not believe there is a reasonable
    likelihood that there will be a material change in the future
    estimates or assumptions we use to calculate inventory
    markdowns. While these markdowns have historically been within
    our expectations and the markdowns we established, it is
    possible that our reserves could be higher or lower in the
    future if our estimates

29

Table of Contents   

are inaccurate. At September 30, 2006, our inventory
    reserves were $1.3 million; a 5% change in our inventory
    allowance would change our reserve by approximately
    $0.1 million.

Prior to the application of the LIFO method, our
    U.S. operations used a variety of methods to estimate the
    FIFO cost of their finished goods inventories. One of our
    divisions uses a standard cost system. Another division divides
    the actual cost of goods manufactured by the tons produced and
    multiplies this amount by the tons of inventory on hand. Other
    divisions calculate a ratio, on a plant by plant basis, the
    numerator of which is the cost of goods sold and the denominator
    is net sales. This ratio is applied to the estimated sales value
    of the finished goods inventory. Variances and other unusual
    items are analyzed to determine whether it is appropriate to
    include those items in the value of inventory. Examples of
    variances and unusual items include, but are not limited to,
    freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) to
    determine the amount of current period charges. Cost includes
    raw materials and supplies, direct labor, indirect labor related
    to the manufacturing process and depreciation and other factory
    overheads.

Impairment
    of Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets   

We review the recorded value of our goodwill annually during the
    fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or sooner if events or
    changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may
    exceed fair value as set forth in Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 142,   Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets .  We determine recoverability by
    comparing the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to
    which the goodwill applies to the carrying value, including
    goodwill, of that reporting unit. Estimating the fair value of
    the reporting unit involves uncertainties, because it requires
    management to develop numerous assumptions, including
    assumptions about the future growth and potential volatility in
    revenues and costs, capital expenditures, industry economic
    factors and future business strategy.

The variability of the factors that management uses to perform
    the goodwill impairment test depends on a number of conditions,
    including uncertainty about future events and cash flows. All
    such factors are interdependent and, therefore, do not change in
    isolation. Accordingly, our accounting estimates may materially
    change from period to period due to changing market factors. If
    we had used other assumptions and estimates or if different
    conditions occurred in future periods, future operating results
    could be materially impacted. For example, based on available
    information as of our most recent review during the fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2006, if our net operating profit before tax
    had decreased by 10% with respect to the pre-tax earnings we
    used in our forecasts, the enterprise value of each of our
    divisions would have continued to exceed their respective net
    book values. Also, based on the same information, if we had
    concluded that it was appropriate to increase by 100 basis
    points the discount rate we used to estimate the fair value of
    each reporting unit, the fair value for each of our reporting
    units would have continued to exceed its carrying value.

We follow Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 144,   Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal
    of Long-Lived Assets 
      ( SFAS 144  ), in determining whether
    the carrying value of any of our long-lived assets is impaired.
    Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators
    are based on legal factors, market conditions and operational
    performance. Future events could cause us to conclude that
    impairment indicators exist and that assets associated with a
    particular operation are impaired. Evaluating the impairment
    also requires us to estimate future operating results and cash
    flows, which also require judgment by management. Any resulting
    impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on our
    financial condition and results of operations.

Included in our long-lived assets are certain intangible assets.
    These intangible assets are amortized based on the approximate
    pattern in which the economic benefits are consumed over their
    estimated useful lives ranging from 1 to 40 years and have
    a weighted average of approximately 20.5 years. We identify
    the weighted average lives of our intangible assets by category
    in    Note 8. Other Intangible Assets 
      of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

We have not made any material changes to our impairment loss
    assessment methodology during the past three fiscal years. We do
    not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be
    a material change in future assumptions or estimates we use to
    calculate impairment losses. However, if actual results are not
    consistent with our assumptions and estimates, we may be exposed
    to additional impairment losses that could be material.

30

Table of Contents   

Health
    Insurance   

We are self-insured for the majority of our group health
    insurance costs, subject to specific retention levels. Our
    self-insurance liabilities contain uncertainties because the
    calculation requires management to make assumptions regarding
    and apply judgment to estimate the ultimate cost to settle
    reported claims and claims incurred but not reported as of the
    balance sheet date. We utilize historical claims lag data
    provided by our claims administrators to compute the required
    estimated reserve rate. We calculate our average monthly claims
    paid utilizing the actual monthly payments during the trailing
     12-month 
    period. At that time, we also calculate our required reserve
    utilizing the reserve rates discussed above. During fiscal 2006,
    the average monthly claims paid were between $2.9 million
    and $3.3 million and our average claims lag was between 1.4
    and 1.9 times the average monthly claims paid. Our accrual at
    September 30, 2006, represents approximately 1.4 times the
    average monthly claims paid. Health insurance costs have risen
    in recent years, but our reserves have historically been within
    our expectations. We have not made any material changes in the
    accounting methodology used to establish our self-insured
    liabilities during the past three fiscal years. We do not
    believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a
    material change in the future assumptions or estimates we use to
    calculate our self-insured liabilities. However, if actual
    results are not consistent with our assumptions, we may be
    exposed to losses or gains that could be material. A 5% change
    in the average claims lag would change our reserve by
    approximately $0.2 million.

Workers 
    Compensation   

We purchase workers  compensation policies for the majority
    of our workers  compensation liabilities that are subject
    to various deductibles. We calculate our workers 
    compensation reserves based on estimated actuarially calculated
    development factors. Our workers  compensation liabilities
    contain uncertainties because the calculation requires
    management to make assumptions regarding the injury. We have not
    made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to
    establish our workers  compensation liabilities during the
    past three fiscal years. We do not believe there is a reasonable
    likelihood that there will be a material change in the future
    assumptions or estimates we use to calculate our workers 
    compensation liabilities. However, if actual results are not
    consistent with our assumptions, we may be exposed to losses or
    gains that could be material. Although the cost of individual
    claims may vary over the life of the claim, the population taken
    as a whole has not changed significantly from our expectations.
    A 5% adverse change in our development factors at
    September 30, 2006 would have resulted in an additional
    $0.5 million of expense for the fiscal year.

Accounting
    for Income Taxes   

As part of the process of preparing our Consolidated Financial
    Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each
    of the jurisdictions in which we operate. We estimate our actual
    current tax exposure and assess temporary differences resulting
    from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting
    purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and
    liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance
    sheet. Certain judgments, assumptions and estimates may affect
    the carrying value of any deferred tax assets and their
    associated valuation allowances, if any, and deferred tax
    liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We
    periodically review our estimates and assumptions of our
    estimated tax assets and obligations using historical experience
    in the jurisdictions we do business in, and informed judgments.
    In addition, we maintain reserves for certain tax contingencies
    based upon our expectations of the outcome of tax audits in the
    jurisdictions where we operate. While we believe that our
    assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in our
    actual experience or significant changes in our assumptions may
    materially affect our income tax expense and liabilities. A 1%
    increase in our effective tax rate would increase tax expense
    from continuing operations by approximately $0.4 million
    for fiscal 2006. A 1% increase in our estimated tax rate used to
    compute deferred tax liabilities and assets, as recorded on the
    September 30, 2006 consolidated balance sheet, would
    increase tax expense by approximately $4.1 million for
    fiscal 2006.

Pension
    Plans   

We have five defined benefit pension plans
    (  U.S. Qualified Plans  ), with
    approximately 56% of our employees in the United States
    currently accruing benefits. In addition, under several labor
    contracts, we make payments based on hours worked into
    multi-employer pension plan trusts established for the benefit
    of certain

31

Table of Contents   

collective bargaining employees in facilities both inside and
    outside the United States. The determination of our obligation
    and expense for pension plans is dependent on our selection of
    certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such
    amounts. We describe these assumptions in
       Note 13. Retirement Plans    of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which include, among
    others, the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on
    plan assets and expected rates of increase in compensation
    levels. Although there is authoritative guidance on how to
    select most of these assumptions, management must exercise some
    degree of judgment when selecting these assumptions.

The amounts necessary to fund future payouts under these plans
    are subject to numerous assumptions and variables. Certain
    significant variables require us to make assumptions such as a
    discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and future
    compensation levels. We evaluate these assumptions with our
    actuarial advisors on an annual basis and we believe they are
    within accepted industry ranges, although an increase or
    decrease in the assumptions or economic events outside our
    control could have a direct impact on reported net earnings.

Our discount rate for each plan used for determining future net
    periodic benefit cost is based on the Citigroup Pension Discount
    Curve. We project benefit cash flows from our two largest
    defined benefit plans against discount rates published in the
    September 30, 2006 Citigroup Pension Discount Curve matched
    to fit our expected liability payment pattern. The benefits paid
    in each future year were discounted to the present at the
    published rate of the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve for that
    year. These present values were added up and a discount rate for
    each plan was determined that would develop the same present
    value as the sum of the individual years. To set the discount
    rate for all plans, the average of the discount rate for the two
    plans was rounded up to the nearest 0.125%. We believe this
    accurately reflects the future defined benefit payment streams
    for our plans. In past years we rounded the yield of the
    Moody s AA Utility Bond Index up to the nearest 0.25%. We
    utilized this methodology due to the correlation of the average
    age and time to retirement for the participants in our plans and
    the maturity characteristics of the index. For measuring benefit
    obligations as of September 30, 2006 and September 30,
    2005 we employed a discount rate of 5.875% and 5.5%,
    respectively. The 37.5 basis point increase in our discount
    rate compared to the prior measurement date, the return on plan
    assets achieved in fiscal 2006 and our $20.6 million of
    employer contributions in fiscal 2006 were the primary reasons
    for the $31.7 million increase in funded status compared to
    the prior year. If we had utilized the Moody s AA Utility
    Bond Index yield rounded up to the nearest 0.25%, on
    September 30, 2006, our discount rate would have been 5.75%.

In determining the long-term rate of return for a plan, we
    consider the historical rates of return, the nature of the
    plan s investments and an expectation for the plan s
    investment strategies. As of September 30, 2006 and 2005 we
    used an expected return on plan assets of 9.0%. The plan assets
    were divided among various investment classes. As of
    September 30, 2006, approximately 70% of plan assets were
    invested with equity managers, approximately 29% of plan assets
    were invested with fixed income managers, and approximately 1%
    of plan assets were held in cash. The difference between actual
    and expected returns on plan assets is accumulated and amortized
    over future periods and, therefore, affects our recorded
    obligations and recognized expenses in such future periods. For
    fiscal 2006 our pension plans had actual returns on assets of
    $20.8 million as compared with expected returns on assets
    of $20.6 million, which resulted in a net deferred gain of
    $0.2 million. At September 30, 2006 we had an
    unrecognized loss of $95.0 million. In fiscal 2007, we
    expect to charge to net periodic pension cost approximately
    $5.8 million of this unrecognized loss. The amount of this
    unrecognized loss charged to pension cost in future years is
    dependent upon future interest rates and pension investment
    results. A 25 basis point change in the discount rate, the
    expected increase in compensation levels or the expected
    long-term rate of return on plan assets would have had the
    following effect on fiscal 2006 pension expense (in millions,
    amounts in the table in parentheses reflect additional income):

Several factors influence our annual funding requirements. For
    the U.S. Qualified Plans, our funding policy consists of
    annual contributions at a rate that provides for future plan
    benefits and maintains appropriate funded

32

Table of Contents   

percentages. These contributions are not less than the minimum
    required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
    as amended (  ERISA  ), and subsequent pension
    legislation and is not more than the maximum amount deductible
    for income tax purposes. Amounts necessary to fund future
    obligations under these plans could vary depending on estimated
    assumptions. The effect on operating results in the future of
    pension plan funding will depend in part on investment
    performance, funding decisions and employee demographics.

For fiscal 2006 and 2005, there was no minimum contribution to
    the U.S. Qualified Plans required by ERISA. However, at
    management s discretion, we made cash contributions to the
    U.S. Qualified Plans of $20.6 million and
    $7.3 million during fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively.
    During fiscal 2007, we have a minimum contribution of
    approximately $13 million to make to the
    U.S. Qualified Plans. Based on current facts and
    assumptions, we anticipate contributing approximately
    $45 million to the U.S. Qualified Plans by the end of
    fiscal 2008.

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (  FASB  ) issued Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 158,   Employer s
    Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
    Plans   an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
    88, 106 and 132(R)   (  SFAS 158  ).
    SFAS 158 requires an employer that is a business entity and
    sponsors one or more single employer benefit plans to
    (1) recognize the funded status of the benefit in its
    statement of financial position, (2) recognize as a
    component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains
    or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during
    the period but are not recognized as components of net periodic
    benefit cost, (3) measure defined benefit plan assets and
    obligations as of the date of the employer s fiscal year
    end statement of financial position and (4) disclose in the
    notes to financial statements additional information about
    certain effects on net periodic benefit cost for the next fiscal
    year that arise from delayed recognition of the gains or losses,
    prior service costs on credits, and transition asset or
    obligations. SFAS 158 is effective no later than the end of
    the Company s fiscal year ended September 30, 2007. If
    SFAS 158 had been effective as of September 30, 2006,
    total assets would have been approximately $3 million
    lower, total liabilities would have been approximately
    $9 million higher and shareholders  equity would have
    been approximately $12 million lower. Because our net
    pension liabilities are dependent upon future events and
    circumstances, the impact at the time of adoption of
    SFAS 158 may differ from these amounts.

New
    Accounting Standards  

See    Note 1. Description of Business and Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies    of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for a full description of
    recent accounting pronouncements including the respective
    expected dates of adoption and expected effects on results of
    operations and financial condition.

Non-GAAP Measure  

We have included in the discussion under the caption
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Overview    above a financial measure that is not
    prepared in accordance with GAAP. Any analysis of non-GAAP
    financial measures should be used only in conjunction with
    results presented in accordance with GAAP. Below, we define the
    non-GAAP financial measure, provide a reconciliation of the
    non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable
    financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, and
    discuss the reasons that we believe this information is useful
    to management and may be useful to investors.

Net
    Debt (as defined)   

We have defined the non-GAAP measure Net Debt to include the
    aggregate debt obligations reflected in our balance sheet, less
    the hedge adjustments resulting from terminated and existing
    fair value interest rate derivatives or swaps, the balance of
    our cash and cash equivalents, and certain other investments
    that we consider to be readily available to satisfy these debt
    obligations.

Our management uses Net Debt, along with other factors, to
    evaluate our financial condition. We believe that Net Debt is an
    appropriate supplemental measure of financial condition because
    it provides a more complete understanding of our financial
    condition before the impact of our decisions regarding the
    appropriate use of cash and liquid investments. Net Debt is not
    intended to be a substitute for GAAP financial measures and
    should not be

33

Table of Contents   

used as such. Set forth below is a reconciliation of Net Debt to
    the most directly comparable GAAP measures,   Current
    Portion of Debt and Total Long-Term Debt  , in millions:

Item 7A.      

QUANTITATIVE
    AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   

We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates,
    foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. Our objective is to
    identify and understand these risks and then implement
    strategies to manage them. When evaluating these strategies, we
    evaluate the fundamentals of each market, our sensitivity to
    movement in commodity pricing, and underlying accounting and
    business implications. To implement these strategies, we
    periodically enter into various hedging transactions. The
    sensitivity analyses we present below do not consider the effect
    of possible adverse changes in the general economy, nor do they
    consider additional actions we may take to mitigate our exposure
    to such changes. There can be no assurance that we will manage
    or continue to manage any risks in the future or that our
    efforts will be successful.

Derivative
    Instruments  

We enter into a variety of derivative transactions. We use
    interest rate swap agreements to manage the interest rate
    characteristics on a portion of our outstanding debt. We
    evaluate market conditions and our leverage ratio in order to
    determine our tolerance for potential increases in interest
    expense that could result from floating interest rates. From
    time to time we use forward contracts to limit our exposure to
    fluctuations in non-functional foreign currency rates with
    respect to our operating units  receivables. We also use
    commodity swap agreements to limit our exposure to falling sales
    prices and rising raw material costs.

Interest
    Rates  

We are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily as a
    result of our short-term and long-term debt. We use swap
    agreements to manage the interest rate characteristics of a
    portion of our outstanding debt. Based on the amounts and mix of
    our fixed and floating rate debt at September 30, 2006 and
    September 30, 2005, if market interest rates increase an
    average of 100 basis points, after considering the effects
    of our swaps, our interest expense would have increased by
    $0.9 million and $2.0 million, respectively. We
    determined these amounts by considering the impact of the
    hypothetical interest rates on our borrowing costs and interest
    rate swap agreements. These analyses do not consider the effects
    of changes in the level of overall economic activity that could
    exist in such an environment.

Market
    Risks Impacting Pension Plans  

Our pension plans are influenced by trends in the financial
    markets and the regulatory environment. Adverse general stock
    market trends and falling interest rates increase plan costs and
    liabilities. During fiscal 2006 and 2005,

34

Table of Contents   

the effect of a 0.25% change in the discount rate would have
    impacted income from continuing operations before income taxes
    by approximately $1.4 million and $1.3 million,
    respectively.

Foreign
    Currency  

We are exposed to changes in foreign currency rates with respect
    to our foreign currency denominated operating revenues and
    expenses. Our principal foreign exchange exposure is the
    Canadian dollar. The Canadian dollar is the functional currency
    of our Canadian operations.

We have transaction gains or losses that result from changes in
    our operating units  non-functional currency. For example,
    we have non-functional currency exposure at our Canadian
    operations because they have purchases and sales denominated in
    U.S. dollars. We record these gains or losses in foreign
    exchange gains and losses in the income statement. From time to
    time, we enter into currency forward or option contracts to
    mitigate a portion of our foreign currency transaction exposure.
    To mitigate potential foreign currency transaction losses, we
    may use offsetting internal exposures or forward contracts.

We also have translation gains or losses that result from
    translation of the results of operations of an operating
    unit s foreign functional currency into U.S. dollars
    for consolidated financial statement purposes. Translated
    earnings were $0.7 million higher in fiscal 2006 than if we
    had translated the same earnings using fiscal 2005 exchange
    rates. Translated earnings were $0.3 million higher in
    fiscal 2005 than if we had translated the same earnings using
    fiscal 2004 exchange rates.

During fiscal 2006 and 2005, the effect of a one percentage
    point change in exchange rates would have impacted accumulated
    other comprehensive income by approximately $1.2 million
    and $1.8 million, respectively.

Commodities  

Fiber   

The principal raw material we use in the production of recycled
    paperboard and corrugated medium is recycled fiber. Our
    purchases of old corrugated containers (  OCC  )
    and double-lined kraft clippings account for our largest fiber
    costs and approximately 55% of our fiscal 2006 fiber purchases.
    The remaining 45% of our fiber purchases consists of a number of
    other grades of recycled paper.

From time to time we make use of financial swap agreements to
    limit our exposure to changes in OCC prices. With the effect of
    our OCC swaps, a hypothetical 10% increase in total fiber prices
    would have increased our costs by $8 million and
    $9 million in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. In times
    of higher fiber prices, we may have the ability to pass a
    portion of the increased costs on to our customers in the form
    of higher finished product pricing; however, there can be no
    assurance that we will be able to do so.

Coated
    Unbleached Kraft   

We purchase Coated Unbleached Kraft  ( CUK  )
    from external sources to use in our folding carton converting
    business. A hypothetical 10% increase in CUK prices throughout
    each year would have increased our costs by approximately
    $10 million during fiscal 2006 and by approximately
    $6 million during fiscal 2005. In times of higher CUK
    prices, we may have the ability to pass a portion of our
    increased costs on to our customers in the form of higher
    finished product pricing; however, there can be no assurance
    that we will be able to do so.

Linerboard/Corrugated
    Medium   

We have the capacity to produce approximately 180,000 tons per
    year of corrugated medium at our St. Paul, Minnesota operation.
    From time to time, we make use of swap agreements to limit our
    exposure to falling corrugated medium sales prices at our St.
    Paul operation. Taking into account the effect of swaps we had
    in place, a hypothetical 10% decrease in selling price
    throughout each year would have resulted in lower sales of
    approximately $7 million and $6 million during fiscal
    2006 and 2005, respectively.

We convert approximately 184,000 tons per year of corrugated
    medium and linerboard in our corrugated box converting
    operations into corrugated sheet stock. A hypothetical 10%
    increase in linerboard and corrugated

35

Table of Contents   

medium pricing throughout each year would have resulted in
    increased costs of approximately $8 million and $7 million
    during fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. We may have the
    ability to pass a portion of our increased costs on to our
    customers in the form of higher finished product pricing;
    however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so.

Energy  

Energy is one of the most significant manufacturing costs of our
    paperboard operations. We use natural gas, electricity, fuel oil
    and coal to generate steam used in the paper making process and
    to operate our recycled paperboard machines and primarily
    electricity for our converting equipment. Our bleached
    paperboard mill uses wood by-products for most of its energy. We
    generally purchase these products from suppliers at market
    rates. Occasionally, we enter into long-term agreements to
    purchase natural gas.

We spent approximately $133 million on all energy sources
    in fiscal 2006. Natural gas and fuel oil accounted for
    approximately 45% (6.5 million MMBtu) of our total
    purchases in fiscal 2006. Excluding fixed price natural gas
    forward contracts, a hypothetical 10% change in the price of
    energy throughout the year would have increased our cost of
    energy by $13 million.

We spent approximately $94 million on all energy sources in
    fiscal 2005. Natural gas and fuel oil accounted for
    approximately 40% (5.5 million MMBtu) of our total
    purchases in fiscal 2005. Excluding fixed price natural gas
    forward contracts, a hypothetical 10% change in the price of
    energy throughout the year would have increased our cost of
    energy by $9 million.

We may have the ability to pass a portion of our increased costs
    on to our customers in the form of higher finished product
    pricing; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able
    to do so. We periodically evaluate alternative scenarios to
    manage these risks.

36

Table of Contents   

Item 8.      

FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   

Index to
    Financial Statements  

Description 

Consolidated
    Statements of Income  

Page 38

Consolidated
    Balance Sheets  

Page 39

Consolidated
    Statements of Shareholders  Equity  

Page 40

Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows  

Page 41

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements  

Page 43

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

Page 84

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm On Internal
    Control Over Financial Reporting  

Page 85

Report of
    Management on Responsibility for Financial Information and for
    Establishing and Maintaining Adequate Internal Control over
    Financial Reporting  

Page 86

For supplemental quarterly financial information, see
       Note 20. Financial Results by Quarter
    (Unaudited)    of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

37

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME   

See accompanying notes.

38

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS   

See accompanying notes.

39

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY   

See accompanying notes.

40

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY  

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

41

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY  

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   (Continued)  

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:

The fiscal 2006 line item Issuance of Class A common
    stock net of stock received for tax withholdings in our
    consolidated statements of shareholders  equity differs
    from the fiscal 2006 line item Issuance of Class A
    common stock in our consolidated statements of cash flows due to
    $0.9 million of receivables from the sale of stock being
    outstanding from employees at September 30, 2006. These
    receivables were collected in October 2006 prior to the
    publication of our financial statements.

Supplemental schedule of non-cash investing and financing
    activities:

The year ended September 30, 2006 includes two Packaging
    Products segment acquisitions we funded and certain adjustments
    related to our GSPP Acquisition (as hereinafter defined) in
    fiscal 2005. Cash paid for the two fiscal 2006 acquisitions
    aggregated $7.7 million, which included an estimated
    $3.2 million of goodwill.

On June 6, 2005, we acquired from Gulf States Paper
    Corporation and certain of its related entities  ( Gulf
    States  ) substantially all of the assets of Gulf
    States  Paperboard and Packaging operations
     ( GSPP  ) and assumed certain of Gulf
    States  related liabilities. We refer to this acquisition
    as the   GSPP Acquisition .   In fiscal
    2005, we paid an aggregate cash price of $552.2 million,
    which included an estimated $51.0 million of goodwill. In
    conjunction with the acquisitions, liabilities were assumed as
    follows:

See accompanying notes.

42

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS 

Note 1.    

Description
    of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies  

Description
    of Business   

Unless the context otherwise requires,   we,  
      us,     our   and   the
    Company   refer to the business of Rock-Tenn Company and
    its consolidated subsidiaries, including RTS Packaging, LLC
    (  RTS  ) and GSD Packaging, LLC
    (  GSD.  ) We own 65% of RTS and conduct our
    interior packaging business through RTS. We own 60% of GSD and
    conduct some of our folding carton operations through GSD. These
    terms do not include Seven Hills Paperboard, LLC (  Seven
    Hills.  ) We own 49% of Seven Hills, a manufacturer of
    gypsum paperboard liner, which we do not consolidate. 

We are primarily a manufacturer of packaging products,
    merchandising displays, and paperboard. In October 2003, we sold
    our plastic packaging operations.

Consolidation   

The consolidated financial statements include our accounts and
    all of our majority-owned subsidiaries. We account for
    subsidiaries owned less than 50% but more than 20% under the
    equity method. We have eliminated all significant intercompany
    accounts and transactions.

We have determined that Seven Hills is a variable interest
    entity as defined in FASB Interpretation 46(R),
      Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. 
     We are not however its primary beneficiary. Accordingly, we
    use the equity method to account for our investment in Seven
    Hills. We have determined that RTS is not a variable interest
    entity. Since we own 65% of RTS we have consolidated the assets
    and liabilities of the joint venture. We have determined that
    GSD is a variable interest entity and we are the primary
    beneficiary and, as such, we have consolidated the assets and
    liabilities of the joint venture based on their fair values on
    the date we acquired our interest from Gulf States. GSD
    represents approximately 2.6% of fiscal 2006 consolidated net
    sales.

Use of
    Estimates   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
    (  GAAP  ) requires management to make estimates
    and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
    liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
    at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts
    of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
    results may differ from those estimates and the differences
    could be material.

The most significant accounting estimates inherent in the
    preparation of our financial statements include estimates
    associated with our evaluation of the recoverability of goodwill
    and property, plant and equipment as well as those used in the
    determination of taxation, self-insured obligations and
    restructuring. In addition, significant estimates form the basis
    for our reserves with respect to collectibility of accounts
    receivable, inventory valuations, pension benefits, and certain
    benefits provided to current employees. Various assumptions and
    other factors underlie the determination of these significant
    estimates. The process of determining significant estimates is
    fact specific and takes into account factors such as historical
    experience, current and expected economic conditions, product
    mix, and in some cases, actuarial techniques. We regularly
    re-evaluate these significant factors and make adjustments where
    facts and circumstances dictate.

Revenue
    Recognition   

We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence that an
    arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been
    rendered, the seller s price to the buyer is fixed or
    determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery
    is not considered to have occurred until the customer takes
    title and assumes the risks and rewards of ownership. The timing
    of revenue recognition is dependent on the location of title
    transfer which is normally either on the exit from our plants
    (i.e. shipping point) or on arrival at customers  plants
    (i.e. destination point). We do not

43

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

recognize revenue from transactions where we bill customers but
    retain custody and title to these products until the date of
    custody and title transfer.

We net against our gross revenue provisions for discounts,
    returns, allowances, customer rebates and other adjustments. We
    account for such provisions during the same period in which we
    record the related revenues. We include in revenue amounts
    billed to a customer in a sales transaction related to shipping
    and handling.

Shipping
    and Handling Costs   

We classify shipping and handling costs as a component of cost
    of goods sold.

Derivatives   

We enter into a variety of derivative transactions. We use swap
    agreements to manage the interest rate characteristics of a
    portion of our outstanding debt. We from time to time use
    forward contracts to limit our exposure to fluctuations in
    Canadian foreign currency rates with respect to our receivables
    denominated in Canadian dollars. We also use commodity swap
    agreements to limit our exposure to falling sales prices and
    rising raw material costs. We are exposed to counterparty credit
    risk for nonperformance and, in the event of nonperformance, to
    market risk for changes in interest rates. We manage exposure to
    counterparty credit risk through minimum credit standards,
    diversification of counterparties and procedures to monitor
    concentrations of credit risk.

For each derivative instrument that is designated and qualifies
    as a fair value hedge, we recognize the change in fair value on
    the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in
    fair value on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk,
    in current earnings. For each derivative instrument that is
    designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge, we report the
    effective portion of the change in fair value on the derivative
    instrument as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
    income or loss and reclassify that portion into earnings in the
    same period or periods during which the hedged transaction
    affects earnings. We recognize the ineffective portion of the
    hedge, if any, in current earnings during the period of change.
    Amounts that are reclassified into earnings from accumulated
    other comprehensive income and any ineffective portion of a
    hedge, are reported on the same income statement line item as
    the originally hedged item. Cash flows from terminated interest
    rate swaps are classified in the same category in the
    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows as the cash flows from the
    items being hedged. Unrecognized amounts related to terminated
    cash flow swaps recorded in accumulated other comprehensive
    income are amortized to earnings over the remaining term of the
    hedged item. For derivative instruments not designated as
    hedging instruments, we recognize the change in value of the
    derivative instrument in current earnings during the period of
    change. At September 30, 2006 we have commodity swaps with
    a fair value of $0.4 million not designated as hedges. The
    instruments act as economic hedges but do not meet the criteria
    for treatment as hedges under Statement of Accounting Standards
    No. 133,   Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
    Hedging Activities 
      ( SFAS 133 ).   The changes
    in the fair value of these swaps are reported in cost of sales
    on the consolidated statement of income. We include the fair
    value of hedges in either short-term or long-term other
    liabilities
     and/or  other
    assets on the balance sheet subject to the term of the hedged
    item. We base the fair value of our derivative instruments on
    market pricing. Fair value represents the net amount required
    for us to terminate the position, taking into consideration
    market rates and counterparty credit risk.

Cash
    Equivalents   

We consider all highly liquid investments that mature three
    months or less from the date of purchase to be cash equivalents.
    The carrying amounts we report in the consolidated balance
    sheets for cash and cash equivalents approximate fair market
    values. We place our cash and cash equivalents with large credit
    worthy banks, which limits the amount of our credit exposure.

44

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Accounts
    Receivable and Allowances   

We perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers 
    financial condition and generally do not require collateral.
    Receivables generally are due within 30 days. We serve a
    diverse customer base primarily in North America and, therefore,
    have limited exposure from credit loss to any particular
    customer or industry segment.

We state accounts receivable at the amount owed by the customer,
    net of an allowance for estimated uncollectible accounts,
    returns and allowances, and cash discounts. We do not discount
    accounts receivable because we generally collect accounts
    receivable over a very short time. We account for sales and
    other taxes that are imposed on and concurrent with individual
    revenue-producing transactions between a seller and a customer
    on a net basis which excludes the taxes from revenues. We
    estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts based on our
    historical experience, current economic conditions and the
    credit worthiness of our customers. We charge off receivables
    when they are determined to be no longer collectible. In fiscal
    2006, 2005, and 2004, we recorded bad debt expense of
    $2.0 million, $0.5 million, and $3.0 million,
    respectively.

Inventories   

We value substantially all U.S. inventories at the lower of
    cost or market, with cost determined on the
     last-in, 
    first-out (  LIFO  ) basis. We value all other
    inventories at lower of cost or market, with cost determined
    using methods which approximate cost computed on a
     first-in, 
    first-out (  FIFO  ) basis. These other
    inventories represent approximately 26.7% and 27.5% of FIFO cost
    of all inventory at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.

Prior to the application of the LIFO method, our
    U.S. operating divisions use a variety of methods to
    estimate the FIFO cost of their finished goods inventories. One
    of our divisions uses a standard cost system. Another division
    divides the actual cost of goods manufactured by the tons
    produced and multiplies this amount by the tons of inventory on
    hand. Other divisions calculate a ratio, on a plant by plant
    basis, the numerator of which is the cost of goods sold and the
    denominator is net sales. This ratio is applied to the estimated
    sales value of the finished goods inventory. Variances and other
    unusual items are analyzed to determine whether it is
    appropriate to include those items in the value of inventory.
    Examples of variances and unusual items are, but are not limited
    to, abnormal production levels, freight, handling costs, and
    wasted materials (spoilage) to determine the amount of current
    period charges. Cost includes raw materials and supplies, direct
    labor, indirect labor related to the manufacturing process and
    depreciation and other factory overheads.

Property,
    Plant and Equipment   

We state property, plant and equipment at cost. Cost includes
    major expenditures for improvements and replacements that extend
    useful lives, increase capacity, increase revenues or reduce
    costs. During fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, we capitalized
    interest of approximately $0.8 million, $0.5 million,
    and $0.3 million, respectively. For financial reporting
    purposes, we provide depreciation and amortization primarily on
    a straight-line method and on the declining balance method over
    the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:

Buildings and building improvements

15-40 years

Machinery and equipment

3-20 years

Transportation equipment

3-8 years

Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the
    asset life or the lease term, generally between 3 and
    10 years. Depreciation expense for fiscal 2006, 2005, and
    2004 was approximately $96.6 million, $79.0 million,
    $70.1 million, respectively.

Impairment
    of Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets   

We review the recorded value of our goodwill annually during the
    beginning of the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or sooner
    if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
    amount may exceed fair value as set

45

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 142,   Goodwill and Other Intangible
    Assets   (  SFAS 142  ). We
    determine recoverability by comparing the estimated fair value
    of the reporting unit to which the goodwill applies to the
    carrying value, including goodwill, of that reporting unit.

Reporting units are our operating divisions. The amount of
    goodwill allocated to a reporting unit is the excess of the
    purchase price of the acquired businesses (or portion thereof)
    included in the reporting unit, over the fair value assigned to
    the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed.

The SFAS 142 goodwill impairment model is a two-step
    process. In step one, we utilize the present value of expected
    net cash flows to determine the estimated fair value of our
    reporting units. This present value model requires management to
    estimate future net cash flows, the timing of these cash flows,
    and a discount rate (based on a weighted average cost of
    capital), which represents the time value of money and the
    inherent risk and uncertainty of the future cash flows. Factors
    that management must estimate when performing this step in the
    process include, among other items, sales volume, prices,
    inflation, discount rates, exchange rates, tax rates and capital
    spending. The assumptions we use to estimate future cash flows
    are consistent with the assumptions that the reporting units use
    for internal planning purposes, updated to reflect current
    expectations. If we determine that the estimated fair value of
    the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the
    reporting unit is not impaired. If we determine that the
    carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair
    value, we must complete step two of the impairment analysis.
    Step two involves determining the implied fair value of the
    reporting unit s goodwill and comparing it to the carrying
    amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting
    unit s goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that
    goodwill, we recognize an impairment loss in an amount equal to
    that excess. We completed the annual test of the goodwill
    associated with each of our reporting units during fiscal 2006
    and concluded the fair values were in excess of the carrying
    values of each of the reporting units.

We follow SFAS 144 in determining whether the carrying
    value of any of our long-lived assets, including intangibles
    other than goodwill, is impaired. The SFAS 144 test is a
    three-step test for assets that are  held and used  as
    that term is defined by SFAS 144. First, we determine
    whether indicators of impairment are present. SFAS 144
    requires us to review long-lived assets for impairment only when
    events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
    amount of the long-lived asset might not be recoverable.
    Accordingly, while we do routinely assess whether impairment
    indicators are present, we do not routinely perform tests of
    recoverability. Second, if we determine that indicators of
    impairment are present, we determine whether the estimated
    undiscounted cash flows for the potentially impaired assets are
    less than the carrying value. This model requires management to
    estimate future net cash flows. The assumptions we use to
    estimate future cash flows are consistent with the assumptions
    we use for internal planning purposes, updated to reflect
    current expectations. Third, if such estimated undiscounted cash
    flows do not exceed the carrying value, we estimate the fair
    value of the asset and record an impairment charge if the
    carrying value is greater than the fair value of the asset. We
    estimate fair value using discounted cash flows, prices for
    similar assets, or other valuation techniques. We use a similar
    test for assets classified as  held for sale,  except
    that the assets are recorded at the lower of their carrying
    value or fair value less anticipated cost to sell.

Included in our long-lived assets are certain identifiable
    intangible assets. These intangible assets are amortized based
    on the estimated pattern in which the economic benefits are
    realized over their estimated useful lives ranging from 1 to
    40 years and have a weighted average of approximately
    20.5 years. We identify the weighted average lives of our
    intangible assets by category in    Note 8. Other
    Intangible Assets.   

Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators
    are based on legal factors, market conditions and operational
    performance. Future events could cause us to conclude that
    impairment indicators exist and that assets associated with a
    particular operation are impaired. Evaluating the impairment
    also requires us to estimate future operating results and cash
    flows, which also require judgment by management. Any resulting
    impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on our
    financial condition and results of operations.

46

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Health
    Insurance   

We are self-insured for the majority of our group health
    insurance costs, subject to specific retention levels. We
    calculate our group insurance reserve based on estimated reserve
    rates. We utilize claims lag data provided by our claims
    administrators to compute the required estimated reserve rate.
    We calculate our average monthly claims paid using the actual
    monthly payments during the trailing
     12-month 
    period. At that time, we also calculate our required reserve
    using the reserve rates discussed above. While we believe that
    our assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in our
    actual experience or significant changes in our assumptions may
    materially affect our group health insurance costs.

Workers 
    Compensation   

We purchase large risk deductible workers  compensation
    policies for the majority of our workers  compensation
    liabilities that are subject to various deductibles to limit our
    exposure. We calculate our workers  compensation reserves
    based on estimated actuarially calculated development factors.

Accounting
    for Income Taxes   

We account for income taxes under the liability method, which
    requires that we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities
    for the future tax consequences attributable to differences
    between the financial statement carrying amount of existing
    assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. We record
    a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets when the
    weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than
    not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized at its
    initially recorded value. We have elected to treat earnings from
    certain foreign subsidiaries, from the date we acquired those
    subsidiaries, as subject to repatriation, and we provide for
    U.S. income taxes accordingly. However, we consider all
    earnings of our other foreign subsidiaries indefinitely
    reinvested in those respective foreign operations, other than
    those earnings we repatriated, under the American Jobs Creation
    Act of 2004, as extraordinary dividends. Other than the
    extraordinary dividends, we have not provided for any
    U.S. income taxes that would be due upon repatriation of
    those earnings into the United States. Upon repatriation of
    those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would
    be subject to both United States income taxes, subject to an
    adjustment for foreign tax credits, and withholding taxes
    payable to the various foreign countries. Determination of the
    amount of unrecognized deferred United States income tax
    liability is not practicable because of the complexities
    associated with its hypothetical calculation.

Pension
    and Other Post-Retirement Benefits   

We account for pensions in accordance with Statement of
    Accounting Standards No. 87,   Employers 
    Accounting for Pensions 
      ( SFAS 87 ).   The
    determination of our obligation and expense for pension and
    other post-retirement benefits is dependent on our selection of
    certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such
    amounts. We describe these assumptions in
       Note 13. Retirement Plans,    which
    include, among others, the discount rate, expected long-term
    rate of return on plan assets and rates of increase in
    compensation levels. As allowed under SFAS 87, we defer
    actual results that differ from our assumptions and amortize the
    difference over future periods. Therefore, these differences
    generally affect our recognized expense, recorded obligation and
    funding requirements in future periods. While we believe that
    our assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in our
    actual experience or significant changes in our assumptions may
    materially affect our pension and other post-retirement benefit
    obligations and our future expense.

Stock
    Based Compensation   

Prior to fiscal 2006, we elected to follow the intrinsic value
    method of APB 25 and related interpretations in accounting
    for our employee stock options. Under APB 25, because the
    exercise price of our employee stock options equaled the market
    price of the underlying stock on the date of grant, we
    recognized no compensation expense. We disclose pro forma
    information regarding net income and earnings per share in
       Note 15.   

47

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Shareholders  Equity.    On
    October 1, 2005, we adopted the fair value recognition
    provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 123 (revised 2004),   Share-Based
    Payment   (  SFAS 123(R)  ). The
    adoption of SFAS 123(R), and resulting recognition of
    compensation related to stock options, did not have a material
    effect on our consolidated financial statements.

Pursuant to our 2004 Incentive Stock Plan, we can award up to
    1,000,000 shares of restricted Common Stock to employees
    and our board of directors. Sale of the stock awarded is
    generally restricted for three to five years from the date of
    grant, depending on vesting. Vesting of the stock granted to
    employees occurs in annual increments of one-third beginning on
    the third anniversary of the date of grant. We charge
    compensation under the plan to earnings over each
    increment s individual restriction period. In some
    instances, accelerated vesting of a portion of the grant may
    occur based on our performance. Also, some restricted stock
    grants contain market or performance conditions that must be met
    in conjunction with the service requirement for the shares to
    vest. See    Note 15. Shareholders 
    Equity    for additional information.

Asset
    Retirement Obligations   

The Company accounts for asset retirement obligations in
    accordance with SFAS No. 143,   Accounting for
    Asset Retirement Obligations  
    (  SFAS 143  ) and FASB Interpretation
    No. 47,   Accounting for Conditional Asset
    Retirement Obligations  
    (  FIN 47  ). A liability and an asset are
    recorded equal to the present value of the estimated costs
    associated with the retirement of long-lived assets where a
    legal or contractual obligation exists and the liability can be
    reasonably estimated. The liability is accreted over time and
    the asset is depreciated over the remaining life of the related
    asset. Upon settlement of the liability, we will recognize a
    gain or loss for any difference between the settlement amount
    and the liability recorded. Asset retirement obligations with
    indeterminate settlement dates are not recorded until such dates
    can be reasonably estimated. Asset retirement obligations
    consist primarily of wastewater lagoon and landfill closure
    costs at certain of our paperboard mills. The amount accrued is
    not significant.

Repair
    and Maintenance Costs   

We expense routine repair and maintenance costs as we incur
    them. We defer expenses we incur during planned major
    maintenance activities and recognize the expenses ratably over
    the shorter of the life provided or until replaced by the next
    major maintenance activity. Our bleached paperboard mill is the
    only facility that currently conducts annual planned major
    maintenance activities. This maintenance is generally performed
    in our first fiscal quarter and has a material impact on our
    results of operations in that period.

Foreign
    Currency   

We translate the assets and liabilities of our foreign
    operations from the functional currency at the rate of exchange
    in effect as of the balance sheet date. We translate the
    revenues and expenses of our foreign operations at a daily
    average rate prevailing for each month during the fiscal year.
    We reflect the resulting translation adjustments in
    shareholders  equity. We include gains or losses from
    foreign currency transactions, such as those resulting from the
    settlement of foreign receivables or payables, in the
    consolidated statements of income. We recorded a loss of
    $0.2 million and $0.7 million in fiscal 2006 and 2005,
    respectively, and a gain of $0.01 million in fiscal 2004.

Environmental
    Remediation Costs   

We accrue for losses associated with our environmental
    remediation obligations when it is probable that we have
    incurred a liability and the amount of the loss can be
    reasonably estimated. We generally recognize accruals for
    estimated losses from our environmental remediation obligations
    no later than completion of the remedial feasibility study and
    adjust such accruals as further information develops or
    circumstances change. We recognize recoveries of our
    environmental remediation costs from other parties as assets
    when we deem their receipt probable.

48

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

New
    Accounting Standards   Recently Adopted   

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 151,
      Inventory Costs   an amendment of ARB
    No. 43, Chapter 4   issued in November 2004
    was adopted by us on October 1, 2005
    (  SFAS 151  ). SFAS 151 requires us to
    recognize abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight,
    handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage) as current-period
    charges and to base our allocation of fixed production overheads
    to the costs of conversion on the normal capacity of the
    production facilities. The adoption of SFAS 151 did not
    have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.

We adopted  SFAS 123(R)  on October 1, 2005, see
      Note 15. Shareholders 
    Equity .   

New
    Accounting Standards   Recently Issued   

In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (  FASB  ) released FASB Interpretation
    No. 48,   Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes   an Interpretation of FASB
    Statement 109   (  FIN 48  ).
    FIN 48 prescribes a comprehensive model for how a company
    should recognize, measure, present, and disclose in its
    financial statements uncertain tax positions that the company
    has taken or expects to take on a tax return (including a
    decision whether to file or not to file a return in a particular
    jurisdiction). Under FIN 48, the consolidated financial
    statements will reflect expected future tax consequences of such
    positions presuming the taxing authorities  full knowledge
    of the position and all relevant facts, but without considering
    time values. FIN 48 is likely to cause greater volatility
    in earnings as more items are recognized discretely within
    income tax expense. FIN 48 also revises disclosure
    requirements and introduces a prescriptive, annual, tabular
    roll-forward of the unrecognized tax benefits. FIN 48 is
    effective as of the beginning of fiscal years that start after
    December 15, 2006 (October 1, 2007 for us). Management
    is currently evaluating the impact that FIN 48 will have on
    our financial position and results of operations upon adoption.

In September 2006, the FASB released SFAS No. 157,
     Fair Value Measurements 
    (  SFAS 157  ). SFAS 157 defines fair
    value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP,
    and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.
    SFAS 157 emphasizes that fair value is a market-based
    measurement, not an entity-specific measurement. Therefore, a
    fair value measurement would be determined based on the
    assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the
    asset or liability. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal years
    beginning after November 15, 2007 (October 1, 2008 for
    us). Management is presently evaluating the impact, if any, upon
    adoption.

In September 2006, the FASB released SFAS No. 158,
      Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension
    and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements
    No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)  
    (  SFAS 158  ). SFAS 158 requires
    companies to:

Recognize the funded status of a benefit plan in its statement
    of financial position.

Recognize as a component of other comprehensive income, net of
    tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that
    arise during the period but are not recognized as components of
    net periodic benefit cost.

Measure defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of the
    date of the employer s fiscal year-end statement of
    financial position (with limited exceptions).

Provide additional disclosure in the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

SFAS 158 does not impact the determination of net periodic
    benefit cost recognized in the income statement. SFAS 158
    must be adopted by Rock-Tenn as of the end of its fiscal year
    ending September 30, 2007. Had we adopted SFAS 158 at
    September 30, 2006, the impact would have been as follows:
    total assets would have been approximately $3 million
    lower, total liabilities would have been approximately
    $9 million higher and shareholders  equity would have
    been approximately $12 million lower. Because our net
    pension liabilities are dependent upon future events and
    circumstances, the impact at the time of adoption of
    SFAS 158 may differ from these amounts.

49

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

In September 2006, the SEC released Staff Accounting
    Bulletin No. 108,   Considering the Effects of
    Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in
    Current Year Financial Statements  
    (  SAB 108  ). In SAB 108, the SEC
    staff established an approach that requires quantification of
    financial statement errors based on the effects of the error on
    each of the company s financial statements and the related
    financial statement disclosures. This model is commonly referred
    to as the   dual approach   because it
    essentially requires quantification of errors under both the
    iron curtain and the roll-over methods which public companies
    (and their auditors) have traditionally used one of two methods
    to quantify financial statement errors as follows:

The  roll-over  method :   This
    method focuses primarily on the impact of a misstatement on the
    income statement   including the reversing effect of
    prior year misstatements   but can lead to the
    accumulation of misstatements in the balance sheet.

The  iron curtain 
    method :   This method focuses primarily on the
    effect of correcting the period-end balance sheet with less
    emphasis on the reversing effects of prior year errors on the
    income statement in the period of correction.

We must begin to apply the provisions of SAB 108 no later
    than the annual financial statements for the fiscal year ending
    September 30, 2007. Management does not expect the
    application of SAB 108 to have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Reclassifications   

We have made certain reclassifications to prior year amounts to
    conform to the current year presentation.

Note 2.    

Basic and
    Diluted Earnings Per Share  

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and
    diluted earnings per share (in millions, except for earnings per
    share information):

50

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Options to purchase 1.0 million, 1.8 million and
    1.0 million common shares in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively, were not included in the computation of diluted
    earnings per share because the effect of including the options
    in the computation would have been antidilutive. The dilutive
    impact of the remaining options outstanding in each year was
    included in the effect of dilutive securities.

Note 3.    

Accumulated
    Other Comprehensive Loss  

Accumulated other comprehensive loss is comprised of the
    following, net of taxes, where applicable (in millions):

Note 4.    

Inventories  

Inventories are as follows (in millions):

It is impracticable to segregate the LIFO reserve between raw
    materials, finished goods and work in process. In fiscal 2006,
    2005, and 2004, we reduced inventory quantities in some of our
    LIFO pools. This reduction normally results in a liquidation of
    LIFO inventory quantities typically carried at lower costs
    prevailing in prior years as compared with the cost of the
    purchases in the respective fiscal years, the effect of which
    typically decreases cost of goods sold. In fiscal 2006, certain
    inventory quantity reductions caused a liquidation of LIFO
    inventory values. The liquidations reduced cost of goods sold by
    less than $0.1 million. In fiscal 2005, we reduced
    inventory quantities in a pool where current costs had declined;
    the effect of which was an aggregate increase in cost of goods
    sold of $0.1 million. In fiscal 2004, the reduced inventory
    quantities decreased cost of goods sold by approximately
    $0.9 million.

Note 5.    

Discontinued
    Operations and Assets Held for Sale  

Discontinued
    Operations   

In the first quarter of fiscal 2004, we sold our plastic
    packaging division and received approximately $59.0 million
    in cash and recorded an after-tax gain of approximately
    $7.3 million; and we sold certain assets and liabilities
    that we acquired in the January 2003 Cartem Wilco acquisition
    and received approximately $2.9 million in cash and
    recorded no gain or loss from the asset sale. We classified the
    results of operations for these assets as income from
    discontinued operations, net of tax, on the consolidated
    statements of income for all periods presented.

51

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Revenue from discontinued operations was $7.4 million and
    pre-tax profit from discontinued operations was
    $0.9 million for fiscal 2004, excluding the gain on sale
    recorded.

Assets
    Held for Sale   

The assets we recorded as held for sale consisted of property,
    plant and equipment from a variety of plant closures and are as
    follows (in millions):

Note 6.    

Acquisitions  

Interior
    Packaging   

On February 27, 2006, our RTS subsidiary completed the
    acquisition of the partition business of Caraustar Industries,
    Inc. for an aggregate purchase price of $6.1 million. This
    acquisition by RTS was funded by capital contributions to RTS by
    us and our minority interest partner in proportion to our
    respective investments in RTS and was accounted for as a
    purchase of a business. We have included these operations in our
    consolidated financial statements since that date in our
    Packaging Products segment. RTS made the acquisition in order to
    gain entrance into the specialty partition market which
    manufactures high quality die cut partitions. The acquisition
    included $2.4 million of goodwill. We expect the goodwill
    to be deductible for income tax purposes. The pro forma impact
    of the acquisition is not material to our financial results.

GSPP   

On June 6, 2005, we acquired the GSPP assets and assumed
    certain of Gulf States  related liabilities. No debt was
    assumed. The purchase price for the GSPP Acquisition in fiscal
    2005 was $552.2 million, net of cash received of
    $0.7 million, including expenses. We have included the
    results of GSPP s operations in our consolidated financial
    statements since that date in our Paperboard segment and
    Packaging Products segment. We made the acquisition in order to
    acquire the bleached paperboard mill and eleven folding carton
    plants owned by Gulf States, which serve primarily food
    packaging, food service and pharmaceutical and health and beauty
    markets. Three of the folding carton plants are owned by GSD. As
    a result of the fiscal 2005 GSPP Acquisition we recorded
    goodwill and intangibles. We assigned the goodwill to our
    Paperboard and Packaging Products segments in the amounts of
    $37.2 million and $13.8 million, respectively. We
    expect all $51.0 million of the goodwill to be deductible
    for income tax purposes. We recorded $50.7 million of
    customer relationship intangibles acquired in the GSPP
    Acquisition and $4.0 million of financing costs incurred to
    finance the acquisition. We assigned the customer relationship
    intangibles to our Paperboard and Packaging Products segments in
    the amounts of $36.4 million and $14.3 million,
    respectively. The customer relationship intangibles lives vary
    by segment acquired, and we are amortizing them on a
    straight-line basis over a weighted average life of
    22.3 years.

Included in the GSPP assets and the related liabilities we
    assumed from Gulf States is a capital lease obligation totaling
    $280 million for certain assets at the bleached paperboard
    mill. The lessor is the Industrial Development Board of the City
    of Demopolis, Alabama which financed the acquisition and
    construction of substantially all of the assets at the
    Demopolis, Alabama bleached paperboard mill by issuing a series
    of industrial development revenue bonds which were purchased by
    Gulf States. Included in the assets acquired from Gulf States
    are these bonds. We also assumed Gulf States  obligation
    under the lease as part of the GSPP Acquisition. The bonds
    indicate that the principal and interest can only be satisfied
    by payments received from the lessee. Accordingly, we included
    the leased assets in property, plant and equipment on our
    balance sheet and offset the capital lease obligation and bonds
    on our balance sheet since we have effectively repurchased the
    lease obligation.

52

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the
    assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of the GSPP
    Acquisition. The opening balance sheet as reported at
    September 30, 2005 is as follows (in millions):

The following unaudited pro forma information reflects our
    consolidated results of operations as if the GSPP Acquisition
    had taken place on October 1, 2004 and 2003. The pro forma
    information includes primarily adjustments for depreciation
    based on the estimated fair value of the property, plant and
    equipment we acquired, amortization of acquired intangibles and
    interest expense on the debt we incurred to finance the
    acquisition. The pro forma information is not necessarily
    indicative of the results of operations that we would have
    reported had the transaction actually occurred at the beginning
    of fiscal 2004 nor is it necessarily indicative of future
    results.

(In millions, except per share data)

Note 7.    

Restructuring
    and Other Costs, Net  

We recorded pre-tax restructuring and other costs, net of
    $7.8 million, $7.5 million, and $32.7 million for
    fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. These amounts are not
    comparable since the timing and scope of the individual actions
    associated with a restructuring can vary. We discuss these
    charges in more detail below.

The following table represents a summary of restructuring and
    other charges, net related to our active restructuring
    initiatives that we incurred during the fiscal year,
    cumulatively since we announced the initiative, and the total we
    expect to incur (in millions):

Summary
    of Restructuring and Other Costs (Income), Net    

53

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

54

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

(1)  

Fiscal years are omitted for initiatives where no charges were
    incurred during the fiscal year. 

(2)  

For this Note 7, we have defined   Net property,
    plant and equipment   as: property, plant and equipment
    impairment losses, and subsequent adjustments to fair value for
    assets classified as held for sale, subsequent (gains) or losses
    on sales of property, plant and equipment, and property, plant
    and equipment related parts and supplies. 

(a)  

In fiscal 2006 we announced the closure and ceased operations at
    our Kerman, California folding carton plant. We transferred a
    substantial portion of the facility s assets and production
    to our other folding carton facilities. We recognized an
    impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of certain
    equipment to its estimated fair value, recorded a charge for
    severance and other employee related costs, recorded a liability
    for future lease payments when we ceased operations at the
    facility of $1.0 million, and recorded charges aggregating
    $1.3 million for the impairment of the customer
    relationship intangible asset. 

(b)  

On October 4, 2005, we announced the closure of our
    Marshville, North Carolina folding carton plant. We transferred
    the majority of the facility s production to our other
    folding carton facilities. We recognized an impairment charge in
    fiscal 2005 to reduce the carrying value of the impaired
    equipment. In fiscal 2006, we closed the facility and certain
    equipment and the facility was classified as held for sale. We
    sold the facility in October 2006. 

(c)  

In fiscal 2005, we announced the closure of our Waco, Texas
    folding carton plant that we acquired as part of the GSPP
    Acquisition. We transferred the majority of the facility s
    production to other plants. We classified the land and building
    as held for sale and we recorded a liability of
    $1.5 million primarily for severance and other employee
    related costs as part of the purchase. 

(d)  

We incurred $1.6 million in fiscal 2005 for severance and
    other employee costs related to our folding carton division
    restructuring. The GSPP Acquisition included 11 folding carton
    facilities and we believe the restructuring of the division
    allowed us to more effectively manage the collective folding
    assets. 

(e)  

In fiscal 2005, we sold 9.4 acres of real estate adjacent
    to our Norcross, Georgia headquarters and received proceeds of
    $2.8 million and recognized a gain of $1.9 million. 

(f)  

In fiscal 2004, we announced the closure of our Otsego, Michigan
    paperboard mill. We transferred approximately one third of the
    production of this facility to our remaining mills and
    recognized an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of
    the facility and certain equipment to its estimated fair value.
    We sold the facility in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. 

(g)  

In fiscal 2004, we announced the closure of our St. Paul,
    Minnesota folding carton facility. We closed the facility in
    fiscal 2005. We shifted a majority of the production to our
    other folding carton facilities. We recognized an impairment
    charge to reduce the carrying value of certain equipment to its
    estimated fair value less cost to sell. We have other operations
    at this complex. We will retain the land and building; and they
    will remain available for use by those operations. The St. Paul
    union contract allows more senior folding carton employees from
    this facility to replace other union employees at our St. Paul
    mill. The replacement process  

55

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

requires
     one-on-one 
    training for a specific period of time per position. As a
    result, we have included in the severance and other employee
    costs $1.2 million of duplicate mill labor in fiscal 2005. 

(h)  

In fiscal 2004, we announced the closure of the laminated
    paperboard products converting lines at our Aurora, Illinois
    facility. We recognized an impairment charge to reduce the
    carrying value of the equipment to its estimated fair value less
    cost to sell and classified the equipment as held for sale until
    it was sold. 

(i)  

In fiscal 2004, we consolidated our laminated paperboard
    products division and mill division under common management and
    reduced the size of the combined divisional staffs. We renamed
    the combined division as the paperboard division. 

(j)  

In fiscal 2004, we announced the closure of our Wright City,
    Missouri laminated paperboard products facility. We recognized
    an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of certain
    equipment and the facility to its estimated fair value less cost
    to sell and we classified the property, plant and equipment as
    held for sale. We sold the facility in fiscal 2005. 

(k)  

In fiscal 2004, we sold our previously closed Mundelein,
    Illinois merchandising displays facility site. 

(l)  

In fiscal 2004, we reviewed our corporate structure and
    reorganized our subsidiaries, reducing the number of corporate
    entities and the complexity of the organizational structure. We
    substantially completed the reorganization process in the fiscal
    2005. 

(m)  

In fiscal 2005, we acquired certain GSPP assets and assumed
    certain of Gulf States  related liabilities. We have
    expensed as incurred various incremental transition costs to
    integrate the operations into our mill and folding carton
    operations of $0.5 million in fiscal 2006 and
    $0.7 million in fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2005, we recorded a
    charge of $0.6 million to expense previously capitalized
    patent defense costs. 

The following table represents a summary of the restructuring
    accrual, which is primarily composed of accrued severance and
    other employee costs, and a reconciliation of the restructuring
    accrual to the line item   Restructuring and other costs,
    net   on our consolidated statements of income for
    fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 (in millions):

Reconciliation of accruals and charges to restructuring
    and other costs, net:  

56

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table represents a summary of incremental
    restructuring accruals related to the costs to exit an activity
    of an acquired company that were established in accounting for
    the acquisition. The reserves are for the Waco plant
    consolidation acquired as part of the GSPP Acquisition for
    severance and other employee costs (in millions):

We do not allocate restructuring and other costs to the
    respective segments for financial reporting purposes. If we had
    allocated these costs, we would have: charged $7.1 million,
    $7.4 million, and $3.3 million to our Packaging
    Products segment for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively;
    $0.5 million, and $29.9 million to the Paperboard
    segment for fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively; charged
    $0.1 million and recorded a gain of $1.6 million for
    our Merchandising Displays segment in fiscal 2006 and 2004,
    respectively; and charged $0.6 million and
    $1.1 million in fiscal 2006 and 2004, respectively, and
    recorded a gain of $0.4 million in fiscal 2005, to our
    corporate operations. Of these costs, $3.0 million,
    $2.0 million and $26.8 million were non-cash for
    fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.

Note 8.    

Other
    Intangible Assets  

The gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization relating
    to intangible assets, excluding goodwill, is as follows (in
    millions):

During fiscal 2006, our net intangible balance decreased
    $6.8 million primarily due to amortization of intangibles,
    and a charge of $1.3 million for the impairment of a
    customer relationship intangible we previously acquired in the
    acquisition due to discontinuing shipments to certain customers
    after the facility was closed. The charge was recorded in the
    Restructuring and other costs, net line item of our consolidated
    statements of income.

During fiscal 2005, our net intangible balance increased by
    $45.9 million primarily due to $50.7 million of
    customer relationship intangibles acquired in the GSPP
    Acquisition. The customer relationship intangibles lives vary by
    segment acquired. We are amortizing them on a straight-line
    basis over a weighted average life of 22.3 years, which
    approximates the periods benefited.

We are amortizing all of our intangibles. None of our
    intangibles have significant residual values. Our intangible
    assets are amortized based on a straight-line basis or the
    estimated pattern in which the economic benefits

57

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

are realized over their estimated useful lives ranging from 1 to
    40 years and have a weighted average of approximately
    20.5 years.

During fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, amortization expense,
    including financing costs, was $7.7 million,
    $5.1 million, and $4.0 million, respectively.
    Estimated amortization expense for the succeeding five fiscal
    years is as follows (in millions):

Note 9.    

Unconsolidated
    Joint Venture  

Seven Hills commenced operations on March 29, 2001. Our
    partner has the option to sell us its interest in Seven Hills,
    at a formula price, effective on the sixth or any subsequent
    anniversary of the commencement date by providing notice to
    purchase their interest no later than two years prior to the
    anniversary of the commencement date on which such transaction
    is to occur. No notification has been received to date. We
    estimate this contingent obligation to purchase their interest
    (based on the current formula) to be approximately
    $8.1 million at September 30, 2006. The partners of
    the joint venture have guaranteed funding of any net losses of
    Seven Hills in relation to their proportionate share of
    ownership. Seven Hills has no third party debt. We have invested
    a total of $23.3 million in Seven Hills as of
    September 30, 2006. Our investment is reflected in the
    assets of our Paperboard segment. Our share of cumulative
    pre-tax losses by Seven Hills that we have recognized as of
    September 30, 2006 and 2005 were $1.7 million and
    $3.6 million, respectively. During fiscal 2006 our share of
    operating income at Seven Hills amounted to $1.9 million.
    During fiscal 2005 our share of operating losses incurred at
    Seven Hills amounted to $1.0 million. The loss in fiscal
    2005 reflected our estimate of our share of the adverse impact
    of a preliminary settlement of arbitration between us and our
    joint venture partner, which was recorded in the third quarter
    of fiscal 2005. The final settlement notice was received in
    December 2005. At that time, we determined that a portion of the
    adverse impact previously recorded no longer was required and
    the excess amount of $1.2 million was released to income in
    the first quarter of fiscal 2006. During fiscal 2004, our share
    of operating income at Seven Hills was $0.1 million.

Our pre-tax income from the Seven Hills joint venture, including
    the fees we charge the venture and our share of the joint
    venture s net income was $3.7 million,
    $0.7 million and $2.8 million, for fiscal 2006, 2005,
    and 2004, respectively. We contributed cash of
    $0.2 million, $0.1 million, and $0.2 million for
    fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Our contributions for
    each of those years were for capital expenditures.

We collect the receivables and disburse the payables for our
    Seven Hills joint venture. Therefore, at each balance sheet date
    we will have either a liability due to the joint venture or a
    receivable from the joint venture. Interest income or expense is
    recorded between the two parties on the average outstanding
    balance. At September 30, 2006 and 2005 we had a current
    liability of $11.0 million and $2.4 million,
    respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. The change in
    the liability is reflected in the financing activities section
    of our consolidated statements of cash flows on the line item
    advances from the joint venture. In October 2006, the Seven
    Hills  joint venture made a $6.2 million capital distribution
    that decreased the current liability discussed above.

58

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following were individual components of debt (in millions):

A portion of the September 30, 2006 debt classified as long
    term, which includes the revolving credit and swing facilities,
    may be paid down earlier than scheduled at our discretion
    without penalty if our cash balances and expected future cash
    flows support such action. Included in the current portion of
    debt above is an amount of $15.0 million to reflect amounts
    required to support normal working capital needs.

(a)  

The Senior Credit Facility includes revolving credit, swing,
    term loan, and letters of credit facilities with an aggregate
    original maximum principal amount of $700 million. The
    Senior Credit Facility provides for up to $100.0 million in
    loans to a Canadian subsidiary. At September 30, 2006,
    there were $49.8 million in borrowings to the Canadian
    subsidiary. As scheduled term loan payments are made, the
    facility size is reduced by those notional amounts. At
    September 30, 2006 the Senior Credit Facility had a maximum
    principal amount of $693.7 million. The Senior Credit
    Facility is pre-payable at any time and is scheduled to expire
    on June 6, 2010. At September 30, 2006, we had issued
    aggregate outstanding letters of credit under this facility of
    approximately $37 million, none of which had been drawn
    upon. At September 30, 2006, due to the restrictive
    covenants on the revolving credit facility, maximum additional
    available borrowings under this facility were approximately
    $115.5 million. Borrowings in the United States under the
    Senior Credit Facility bear interest based either upon
    (1) LIBOR plus an applicable margin (  U.S. 
     LIBOR Loans  ) or (2) the alternative base rate
    plus an applicable margin (  U.S.   Base Rate
    Loans  ). Borrowings in Canada under the Senior Credit
    Facility  

59

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

bear interest based either upon: (1) Canadian Deposit
    Offering Rate plus an applicable margin for Canadian dollar
    loans (  Banker s Acceptance Loans  );
    (2) LIBOR plus an applicable margin for U.S. Dollar
    loans (  Canadian LIBOR Loans  ); or (3) the
    Canadian or U.S. Dollar base rate plus an applicable margin
    (  Canadian Base Rate Loans.  ) The applicable
    margin for determining the interest rate applicable to U.S. and
    Canadian Base Rate Loans ranges from 0.000% to 0.750% and
    Banker s Acceptance and U.S. and Canadian LIBOR Loans from
    .875% to 1.75% based on the ratio of our total funded debt to
    EBITDA as defined in the credit agreement (  Leverage
    Ratio  ). The applicable percentage for determining the
    facility commitment fee ranges from 0.175% to 0.400% of the
    aggregate borrowing availability based on the Leverage Ratio. At
    September 30, 2006, the applicable margin for determining
    the interest rate applicable to U.S. and Canadian LIBOR Loans
    and Banker s Acceptance Loans and the applicable margin for
    determining the interest rate applicable to U.S. and Canadian
    Base Rate Loans were 1.75% and 0.75%, respectively. At
    September 30, 2005, the applicable margin for determining
    the interest rate applicable to U.S. and Canadian LIBOR Loans
    and the applicable margin for determining the interest rate
    applicable to U.S. and Canadian Base Rate Loans were 1.50% and
    0.50%, respectively. The facility commitment fee at
    September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005 was 0.40%
    and 0.325% of the unused amount, respectively. Interest on the
    U.S. revolving credit facility and term loan facility are
    payable in arrears on each applicable payment date. At our
    election, we can choose U.S. and Canadian Base Rate Loans, U.S.
    and Canadian LIBOR Loans, Banker s Acceptance Loans or a
    combination thereof. If we chose U.S. and Canadian LIBOR Loans
    or Banker s Acceptance Loans, the interest rate reset
    options are 30, 60, 90 or 180 days. The Senior Credit
    Facility is secured by the real and personal property of the
    GSPP business that we acquired in the GSPP Acquisition and the
    following property of the Company and its wholly-owned
    subsidiaries: inventory and general intangibles, including,
    without limitation, specified patents, patent licenses,
    trademarks, trademark licenses, copyrights and copyright
    licenses. The agreement documenting the Senior Credit Facility,
    includes restrictive covenants regarding the maintenance of
    financial ratios, the creation of additional long-term and
    short-term debt, the creation or existence of certain liens, the
    occurrence of certain mergers, acquisitions or disposals of
    assets and certain leasing arrangements, the occurrence of
    certain fundamental changes in the primary nature of our
    consolidated business, the nature of certain investments, and
    other matters. We are in compliance with these restrictions.
    Under the most restrictive of these covenants as of
    September 30, 2006 we could pay up to approximately
    $90 million of dividends without violating our Minimum
    Consolidated Net Worth covenant. 

(b)  

On October 26, 2005, we amended the
     364-day 
    receivables-backed financing facility (  Receivables
    Facility  ) and increased the maximum borrowing
    availability from $75.0 to $100.0 million. The facility
    expired on October 25, 2006. We amended the facility, and
    the facility is scheduled to expire on November 16, 2007.
    Accordingly, such borrowings are classified as non-current at
    September 30, 2006. At September 30, 2005, we had the
    intent to maintain at least $55.0 million outstanding under
    this facility on a long-term basis. We also had the ability to
    re-finance this borrowing on a long-term basis, as evidenced by
    the fact that it was renewed in October 2005, expiring October
    2006. Accordingly, we have reclassified the $55.0 million
    drawn upon this facility at September 30, 2005 previously
    classified as short-term to long-term. Borrowing availability
    under this facility is based on the eligible underlying
    receivables. At September 30, 2006, maximum available
    borrowings under this facility were approximately
    $100.0 million. The borrowing rate, which consists of the
    market rate for asset-backed commercial paper plus a utilization
    fee, was 5.61% as of September 30, 2006. The borrowing rate
    at September 30, 2005 was 4.10%. 

(c)  

The industrial development revenue bonds are issued by various
    municipalities in which we maintain operations or other
    facilities. The bonds are fully secured by a pledge of payments
    to the municipality by us under a financing agreement. Each
    series of bonds are also secured by and payable through a letter
    of credit issued in favor of the Trustee to the bonds. We are
    required to maintain these letters of credit under the terms of
    the bond indenture. The letters of credit are renewable at our
    request so long as no default or event of default has occurred
    under the Senior Credit Facility. A remarketing agent offers the
    bonds for initial sale and uses its best efforts to remarket the
    bonds until they mature or are otherwise fully redeemed. The
    remarketing agent also periodically determines the interest
    rates on the bonds based on prevailing market conditions. The  

60

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

remarketing agent is paid a fee for this service. Our industrial
    development revenue bonds are remarketed on a periodic basis
    upon demand of the bondholders. If the remarketing agent is
    unable to successfully remarket the bonds, the remarketing agent
    will repurchase the bonds by drawing on the letters of credit.
    If this were to occur, we would immediately reimburse the
    issuing lender with the proceeds of a revolving loan obtained
    under the Senior Credit Facility. Accordingly, we have
    classified the industrial development revenue bonds as
    non-current. 

Interest on our 8.20% notes due August 2011
    (  August 2011 notes  ) is payable in arrears
    each February and August. Interest on our 5.625% notes due
    March 2013 (  March 2013 notes  ) is payable in
    arrears each September and March. Our August 2011 notes and
    March 2013 notes are unsecured facilities. The indenture related
    to these notes restricts us and our subsidiaries from incurring
    certain liens and entering into certain sale and leaseback
    transactions, subject to a number of exceptions. At
    September 30, 2006 and 2005, the fair market value of the
    August 2011 notes was approximately $261.6 million and
    $258.8 million, respectively, based on quoted market
    prices. At September 30, 2006 and 2005, the fair market
    value of the March 2013 notes, was approximately
    $93.3 million and $90.8 million, respectively, based
    on quoted market prices.

As of September 30, 2006, the aggregate maturities of
    long-term debt for the succeeding five fiscal years are as
    follows (in millions):

We lease certain manufacturing and warehousing facilities and
    equipment (primarily transportation equipment) under various
    operating leases. Some leases contain escalation clauses and
    provisions for lease renewal.

As of September 30, 2006, future minimum lease payments
    under all noncancelable leases, excluding the Demopolis lease
    discussed in Note 6, for the succeeding five fiscal years,
    including certain maintenance charges on transportation
    equipment, are as follows (in millions):

Rental expense for the years ended September 30, 2006,
    2005, and 2004 was approximately $18.4 million,
    $18.0 million and $16.5 million, respectively,
    including lease payments under cancelable leases.

61

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The provisions for income taxes consist of the following
    components (in millions):

The components of deferred tax expense are as follows (in
    millions):

62

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The differences between the statutory federal income tax rate
    and our effective income tax rate are as follows:

In fiscal 2006, we recorded a state tax benefit of
    $2.4 million which related primarily to a change in our
    state effective tax rate on our domestic operating entities from
    approximately 4% to 3% and we recorded research and development
    and other tax credits of $0.8 million, net of valuation
    allowances, primarily related to prior years. In fiscal 2005, we
    recorded a $4.1 million benefit resulting from the
    adjustment and resolution of federal and state tax deductions
    that we had previously reserved. This benefit was partially
    offset by a $1.4 million expense related to changes in our
    state effective tax rates, net of changes to our Canadian tax
    rate. In fiscal 2004, we reorganized our corporate subsidiaries,
    reducing the number of corporate entities and the complexity of
    our organizational structure which resulted in a one-time income
    tax benefit of $2.1 million. The restructuring also allowed
    us to reduce valuation allowances by $1.2 million for
    certain state net operating loss and tax credit carry forwards
    that we had previously concluded were not likely to be realized.

63

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to
    significant portions of deferred income tax assets and
    liabilities consist of the following (in millions):

Deferred taxes are recorded as follows in the consolidated
    balance sheet:

At September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, net
    operating losses, for state tax reporting purposes, of
    approximately $144 million and $94 million,
    respectively, were available for carry forward. These loss carry
    forwards generally expire within 5-20 years. We have
    recorded deferred tax assets of $6.8 million and
    $4.5 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively as our estimate of the future benefit of these
    losses, and we have also recorded valuation allowances of
    $1.6 million and $1.4 million at September 30,
    2006 and 2005 against these assets. In addition, at
    September 30, 2006 and 2005, certain allowable state tax
    credits were available for carry forward. These state credit
    carry forwards generally expire within 5-10 years. We have
    recorded a deferred tax asset of $0.9 million at
    September 30, 2006 and 2005 as our estimate of the future
    benefit of these credits, and we have also recorded a valuation
    allowance of $0.2 million at September 30, 2006 and
    2005 against these assets.

At September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, net
    operating losses, for federal tax reporting purposes of
    approximately $5.7 million and $21.7 million,
    respectively, were available for carry back or carry forward. We
    have applied all 2005 net operating loss, and we anticipate
    carrying back the 2006 net operating loss, to offset 2004

64

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

taxable income. In addition, at September 30, 2006,
    approximately $1.3 million of certain allowable federal tax
    credits were available for carry forward and as such have been
    recorded as a deferred tax asset at September 30, 2006. The
    federal credit carry forwards generally expire within
    8-20 years.

The components of income before income taxes are as follows (in
    millions):

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created a temporary
    incentive for United States corporations to repatriate
    accumulated income earned abroad by allowing a deduction against
    United States taxes for an amount equal to 85% of any dividends
    received from controlled foreign corporations. We repatriated
    $33.6 million in extraordinary dividends, as defined in the
    Jobs Creation Act, from our Cartem Wilco operations and our Ling
    Industries, Inc. operations during the quarter ended
    December 31, 2005. As a result of this repatriation, we
    expect to pay $2.3 million of United States taxes.

We have elected to treat earnings from certain foreign
    subsidiaries from the date we acquired the operations as subject
    to repatriation and we provide for taxes accordingly. We
    consider all earnings of our other foreign subsidiaries
    indefinitely reinvested in the respective foreign operations
    other than those we repatriated under the American Jobs Creation
    Act of 2004 as extraordinary dividends. As of September 30,
    2006, we estimate those indefinitely reinvested earnings to be
    approximately $25.6 million. We have not provided for any
    United States taxes that would be due upon repatriation of those
    earnings into the United States. Upon distribution of those
    earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be
    subject to both United States income taxes, subject to an
    adjustment for foreign tax credits, and withholding taxes
    payable to the various foreign countries. Determination of the
    amount of unrecognized deferred United States income tax
    liability is not practicable.

Note 13.  Retirement
    Plans  

Defined
    Benefit Pension Plans   

We have five qualified defined benefit pension plans with
    approximately 56% of our employees in the United States
    currently accruing benefits. In addition, under several labor
    contracts, we make payments based on hours worked into
    multi-employer pension plan trusts established for the benefit
    of certain collective bargaining employees in facilities both
    inside and outside the United States. Approximately 35% of our
    employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements.
    Approximately 5% of our employees are covered by collective
    bargaining agreements that have expired and another 10% are
    covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire within
    one year.

The benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based
    on either compensation or a combination of years of service and
    negotiated benefit levels, depending upon the plan. We allocate
    our pension plans  assets to several investment management
    firms across a variety of investment styles. Our Defined Benefit
    Investment Committee meets at least four times a year with an
    investment advisor to review each management firm s

65

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

performance and monitor their compliance with their stated
    goals, our investment policy and ERISA standards. Our pension
    plans  asset allocations at September 30, by asset
    category, were as follows:

In fiscal 2006, the Defined Benefit Committee and our investment
    advisor reviewed our investments in the alternative investment
    asset class. As a result of this review, we liquidated our
    investments in the Hedge Fund of Funds that were part of the
    alternative investment asset class. We have maintained a minimal
    investment with a venture capital fund in the alternative
    investment asset class.

The objective of our investment policy is to assure the
    management of our retirement plans in accordance with the
    provisions of ERISA and the regulations pertaining thereto. Our
    investment policy focuses on a long-term view in managing the
    pension plans  assets by following investment theory that
    assumes that over long periods of time there is a direct
    relationship between the level of risk assumed in an investment
    program and the level of return that should be expected. The
    formation of judgments and the actions to be taken on those
    judgments will be aimed at matching the long-term needs of the
    pension plans with the expected, long-term performance patterns
    of the various investment markets.

We understand that investment returns are volatile. We believe
    that, by investing in a variety of asset classes and utilizing
    multiple investment management firms, we can create a portfolio
    that yields adequate returns with reduced volatility. After we
    consulted with our actuary and investment advisor, we adopted
    the following target allocations to produce desired performance:

Target
    Allocations   

These target allocations are guidelines, not limitations, and
    occasionally plan fiduciaries will approve allocations above or
    below target ranges. We adopted our target allocations based on
    a review of our asset allocation with our investment advisor in
    fiscal 2005. We plan on refreshing our asset allocation study
    every three to five years. In developing our weighted average
    expected rate of return on plan assets, we consulted with our
    investment advisor and evaluated criteria primarily based on
    historical returns by asset class, and included long-term return
    expectations by asset class. We currently expect to contribute
    approximately $13 million to our five qualified defined
    benefit plans in fiscal 2007 and expect to contribute
    approximately $45 million by the end of fiscal 2008
    (unaudited). We use a September 30 measurement date.

66

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Our projected benefit obligation, fair value of assets and net
    periodic pension cost include the following components (in
    millions):

67

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The amounts we are required to recognize in the consolidated
    statements of income are as follows (in millions):

Weighted-average assumptions used in the calculation of pension
    expense for fiscal years ended:

For calculating pension expense in fiscal 2006, our
    weighted-average assumption for the expected increase in
    compensation was 2.75% for the next five years and 3.5%
    thereafter. Our weighted-average assumption for the expected
    increase in compensation levels used to calculate pension
    expense in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 was 3% in each year.

Our weighted-average assumption for the expected increase in
    compensation levels as of September 30, 2006, was 3.0% for
    the next four years and 3.5% thereafter. Our weighted-average
    assumption for the expected increase in compensation levels as
    of September 30, 2005, was 2.75% for the next five years
    and 3.5% thereafter. Our weighted-average assumption for the
    expected increase in compensation levels as of
    September 30, 2004 was 3% in each year. Our assumption
    regarding the increase in compensation levels is reviewed
    periodically and the assumption is based on both our internal
    planning projections and recent history of actual compensation
    increases. We typically review our expected long-term rate of
    return on plan assets every 3 to 5 years through an asset
    allocation study with either our actuary or investment advisor.
    Our latest review occurred in fiscal 2005. On September 30,
    2006 we changed the basis for computing our assumed discount
    rate. The September 30, 2006 discount rate reflects an
    analysis by our actuary of the projected benefit cash flows from
    our two largest defined benefit plans against discount rates
    published in the September 30, 2006 Citigroup Pension
    Discount Curve. The benefits paid in each future year were
    discounted to the present at the published rate of the Citigroup
    Pension Discount Curve for that year. For benefit cash flows
    beyond 30 years we used the 30 year rate of the
    Citigroup Pension Discount Curve. These present values were
    added up and a discount rate for each plan was determined that
    would develop the same present value as the sum of the
    individual years. To set the assumed discount rate for all
    plans, the average of the discount rate for the two largest
    plans was rounded up to the nearest 0.125%. In previous years,
    our discount rate was reviewed annually to reflect the published
    yield of the Moody s AA Utility Bond Index on
    September 15, rounded up to the nearest 0.25%. We changed
    our discount rate methodology because we feel the

68

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

analysis using the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve provides a
    more accurate reflection of our future benefit obligations than
    the use of the Moody s AA Utility Bond Index yield.

On September 30, 2006 we updated the mortality rates used
    in our pension expense calculation to reflect those of the 2000
    Retired Pensioners Mortality table (  RP-2000
    table  ) with collar adjustments for males and females.
    Previously, we had used the 1983 Group Annuity Mortality table
    (  GAM-83 table .   ) We switched to the
    RP-2000 table with collar adjustment for males and females
    because it provides a more accurate representation of the life
    expectancy of our work force. For our two plans covering white
    collar employees, we used blended blue and white collar rates to
    reflect the populations in those plans. For our three plans
    covering union employees, we used blue collar rates to reflect
    the populations of those plans. The accumulated benefit
    obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was
    $325.9 million and $329.3 million at
    September 30, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

The estimated benefit payments, which reflect expected future
    service, as appropriate, that we project are as follows (in
    millions):

The retirement plans review committee of our board of directors
    reviewed management s recommendations with respect to
    certain modifications of our retirement benefits and requested
    that such recommendations be submitted to the board of directors
    for approval. On October 29, 2004, our board of directors
    approved and adopted changes to our 401(k) retirement savings
    plans that cover our salaried and nonunion hourly employees and
    to our defined benefit plans that cover our salaried and
    nonunion hourly employees (our   pension plan  ).
    We have summarized these changes below. The changes were
    effective January 1, 2005 and March 1, 2005, based on
    an employee s status on December 31, 2004. The changes
    resulted in curtailment income of $0.4 million, which we
    recognized when we adopted the pension plan changes.

Beginning January 1, 2005, the following changes were
    effective for our salaried and non-union hourly employees:

Effective January 1, 2005, employees hired on or after
    January 1, 2005, are not eligible to participate in our
    pension plan. We provide the following enhanced 401(k) plan
    match for such employees (the   enhanced 401(k) plan
    match  ): 100% match on the first 3% of eligible pay
    contributed by the employee and 50% match on the next 2% of
    eligible pay contributed by the employee.

Effective January 1, 2005, then current employees who were
    less than 35 years old  and  who had less than
    5 years of vesting service on December 31, 2004, were
    no longer eligible to participate in our pension plan after
    December 31, 2004. We will pay pension benefits earned
    through December 31, 2004, upon retirement in accordance
    with applicable plan rules. We began providing the enhanced
    401(k) plan match for such employees effective January 1,
    2005.

Effective March 1, 2005, then current employees who were
    35 years old or older  or  who had 5 years or
    more of vesting service on December 31, 2004, were required
    to elect one of two options: (1) a reduced future pension
    accrual based on a revised benefit formula and the current
    401(k) plans  match or (2) no future pension accrual
    and the enhanced 401(k) plan match. In either event, we will pay
    these employees pension benefits earned through
    February 28, 2005, upon retirement in accordance with
    applicable plan rules.

69

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

In December 2005, we offered a subsequent voluntary election for
    salaried and nonunion hourly employees who were participating in
    the pension plan. This election, which did not result in a
    curtailment, is summarized below:

Effective January 1, 2006, current employees who were
    35 years old  or  older or who had 5 years or
    more of vesting service on December 31, 2004, were allowed
    to opt for no future pension accrual and the enhanced 401(k)
    plan match. In the event they chose this option, we will pay
    these employees pension benefits earned through
    December 31, 2005, upon retirement in accordance with
    applicable plan rules.

401(k)
    Plans   

We have 401(k) plans that cover all of our salaried and nonunion
    hourly employees as well as certain employees covered by union
    collective bargaining agreements, subject to an initial two
    month waiting period. These 401(k) plans permit participants to
    make contributions by salary reduction pursuant to
    Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
    amended (the   Code  ). We generally record
    matching expense, net of forfeitures, of fifty cents on the
    dollar for the first six percent for those individuals not
    participating in the enhanced 401(k) plan match. Under the
    enhanced 401(k) plan match, we record matching expense that is
    dollar for dollar on the first three percent and fifty cents on
    the dollar for the next two percent. During fiscal 2006, 2005,
    and 2004, we recorded expense of $7.4 million,
    $5.3 million, and $4.5 million, respectively, related
    to the 401(k) plans.

Supplemental
    Retirement Plans   

We have supplemental retirement savings plans (the
      Supplemental Plans  ) that are nonqualified
    unfunded deferred compensation plans. We intend to provide
    participants with an opportunity to supplement their retirement
    income through deferral of current compensation. These plans are
    divided into a broad based section and the senior executive
    section. The broad based portion was put into effect on
    January 1, 2006 for certain highly compensated employees
    whose 401(k) contributions were capped at a maximum deferral
    rate in the 401(k) plan in an effort to pass the
    nondiscrimination tests in those plans. Participants in the
    broad based section of the plan can contribute base pay up to a
    certain maximum dollar amount determined annually. Contributions
    in the broad based section of the plan are not matched. Amounts
    deferred and payable under the Supplemental Plans (the
      Obligations  ) are our unsecured obligations,
    and rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated
    indebtedness outstanding from time to time. Each participant in
    the senior executive portion of the plan, elects the amount of
    eligible base salary
     and/or 
    eligible bonus to be deferred to a maximum deferral of 6% of
    base salary and 6% of eligible bonus. The Company matches fifty
    cents on the dollar of the amount contributed in the senior
    executive section. Each Obligation will be payable on a date
    selected by us pursuant to the terms of the Supplemental Plans.
    Generally, we are obligated to pay the Obligations after
    termination of the participant s employment or in certain
    emergency situations. We will adjust each participant s
    account for investment gains and losses as if the credits to the
    participant s account had been invested in the benchmark
    investment alternatives available under the Supplemental Plans
    in accordance with the participant s investment election or
    elections (or default election or elections) as in effect from
    time to time. We will make all such adjustments at the same time
    and in accordance with the same procedures followed under our
    401(k) plans for crediting investment gains and losses to a
    participant s account under our 401(k) plans. The
    Obligations are denominated and payable in United States
    dollars. The benchmark investment alternatives available under
    the Supplemental Plans are the same as the investment
    alternatives available under our 401(k) plans or are, in our
    view, comparable to the investment alternatives available under
    our 401(k) plans. We recorded matching expense of
    $0.1 million in each of fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004,
    respectively.

We have a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
     ( SERP  ) that provides unfunded supplemental
    retirement benefits to certain of our executives. The SERP
    provides for incremental pension benefits in excess of those
    offered in our principal pension plan. We recorded expense
    relating to the SERP of $1.0 million, $0.8 million,
    and $0.6 million for the fiscal years ended
    September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Amounts
    we accrued as of September 30, 2006 and 2005 related to the
    SERP were $3.9 million and $2.9 million, respectively.
    In November

70

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

2005 the plan was amended to provide that the benefit will be
    paid as a lump sum for participants whose employment terminates
    on or after November 11, 2005.

Note 14.  Derivatives  

The following is a summary of the net fair value of both our
    financial derivative instruments as well as our physical
    contracts that qualify as derivatives under SFAS 133 that
    are outstanding as of September 30 (in millions, asset /
    (liability)):

The fair value of our derivative instruments is generally based
    on market pricing and represents the net amount required to
    terminate the position, taking into consideration market rates
    and counterparty credit risk. The income from cash flow hedges,
    reclassified from other comprehensive income into earnings, as a
    component of interest expense, during fiscal 2006 and 2005 was
    approximately $2.9 million and $0.4 million,
    respectively. We also recorded pretax income of $1.8 million and
    $4.1 million during fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively, as a
    component of interest expense for the amortization of the hedge
    adjustment from terminated fair value interest rate swaps. We
    expect to reclassify approximately $3.0 million to pre-tax
    income from accumulated other comprehensive income related to
    various cash flow hedges which will increase earnings during
    fiscal 2007. Our commodity financial swaps hedge forecasted
    physical transactions through November 30, 2008.

We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our
    short-term and long-term debt. We use interest rate swap
    instruments to varying degrees from time to time to manage the
    interest rate characteristics of a portion of our outstanding
    debt. As part of our strategy to reduce our exposure to floating
    interest rates, prior to June 2005, we paid $4.3 million to
    terminate $200.0 million notional amount of long-term
     fixed-to-floating 
    fair value interest rate swaps. We are amortizing the related
    adjustment to the carrying value of the fixed rate debt
    instrument to interest expense using the effective interest
    method over its remaining life. In June 2005 we entered into
    $350.0 million notional amount, and in September 2005 we
    entered into $75.0 million notional amount, of
     floating-to-fixed 
    interest cash flow rate swaps. We designated the June and
    September 2005 swaps as cash flow hedges of the interest rate
    exposure on an equivalent amount of our floating rate debt.

The June and September 2005 swaps were terminated in February
    2006 and new swaps were entered into at that time with notional
    amounts of $425.0 million. We realized net proceeds of
    $9.9 million upon such terminations. These new swaps were
    terminated in June 2006. We realized net proceeds of
    $4.6 million upon such terminations in June. New swaps,
    with notional amounts of $390.0 million were entered into
    concurrently with the terminations in June. At
    September 30, 2006 we concluded it was probable that some
    of the forecasted transactions hedged by the terminated swaps
    would not occur. Accordingly, approximately $0.4 million of
    deferred income was reclassified out of accumulated other
    comprehensive income into the consolidated statement of income.
    As of September 30, 2006, we had swaps in place amounting
    to a notional amount of $350.0 million. The fair value of
    these swaps was a liability of $4.4 million at
    September 30, 2006. Subsequent to September 30, 2006,
    we terminated one of these swaps, with a notional amount of
    $100.0 million, at a minimal cost.

Upon termination of these cash flow swaps, any amounts received
    (or paid) are not immediately recognized as income but are
    credited (or debited) to  Other Comprehensive
    Income/(Loss)  and amortized to earnings   as
    interest income (or expense)   over the remaining term
    of the originally hedged item. The cash received (or paid) as a
    result of terminating the hedges is classified, in the statement
    of cash flows, in the same category as the cash flows relating
    to the items being hedged. The amount of ineffectiveness
    recorded in the results of operations for

71

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

fiscal 2006 and 2005 was minimal. Amounts remaining in Other
    Comprehensive Income/(Loss) related to active and terminated
    swaps at September 30, 2006 are a pre-tax loss of
    $4.1 million and pre-tax income of $10.8 million,
    respectively.

Note 15.  Shareholders 
    Equity  

Capitalization   

Our capital stock consists solely of our Common Stock, which is
    Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share.
    Holders of our Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share.
    The Articles of Incorporation also authorize preferred stock, of
    which no shares have been issued. The terms and provisions of
    such shares will be determined by our board of directors upon
    any issuance of such shares in accordance with the Articles of
    Incorporation.

Stock
    Repurchase Plan   

Our board of directors has approved a stock repurchase plan that
    allows for the repurchase from time to time of shares of Common
    Stock over an indefinite period of time. As of
    September 30, 2006, we had 2.0 million shares of
    Common Stock available for repurchase under the amended
    repurchase plan. Pursuant to our repurchase plan, during fiscal
    2006, 2005, and fiscal 2004, we did not repurchase any shares of
    Common Stock.

Adoption
    of SFAS 123(R)   

We maintain a stock-based compensation plan which allows for the
    issuance of nonqualified stock options and restricted shares. We
    also maintain an employee stock purchase plan that provides for
    the issuance of shares to all of our eligible employees at a
    fifteen percent discount. Prior to fiscal 2006, we accounted for
    the plans under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board
    Opinion No. 25,   Accounting for Stock Issued to
    Employees    ( APB 25  ). Under
    APB 25, because all stock options granted had an exercise
    price equal to the market value of the stock on the date of the
    grant, no expense was recognized. In addition, under
    APB 25, the employee stock purchase plan was considered
    noncompensatory and no expense related to this plan was
    recognized prior to fiscal 2006. Expense related to restricted
    stock grants was recognized.

Effective October 1, 2005, we adopted the fair value
    recognition provisions of SFAS 123(R). The adoption of
    SFAS 123(R) did not have a material effect on our
    consolidated financial statements. We chose the modified
    prospective method of adoption in which we recognize
    compensation expense for the portion of outstanding awards on
    the adoption date for which the requisite service has not yet
    been rendered based on the grant-date fair value of those awards
    calculated under SFAS No. 123,   Accounting for
    Stock-Based Compensation   for pro forma disclosures.
    Compensation expense in fiscal 2005 and 2004 related to stock
    options and the employee stock purchase plan continues to be
    disclosed on a pro forma basis only. In accordance with the
    modified prospective transition method, we have netted, for all
    periods presented, the balance of Deferred Compensation
    previously displayed as a component of shareholders  equity
    against additional paid-in capital.

SFAS 123(R) requires that forfeitures be estimated over the
    vesting period of an award, rather than being recognized as a
    reduction of compensation expense when the forfeiture actually
    occurs. The cumulative effect of the use of the estimated
    forfeiture method for prior periods upon adoption of
    SFAS 123(R) related to the restricted shares was not
    material.

For the prior year pro forma information we recognized
    compensation cost over the explicit service period (for
    retirement eligible employees, this included the period up to
    the date of actual retirement). Upon adoption of
    SFAS 123(R), we recognize compensation cost over a period
    to the date the employee first becomes eligible for retirement
    for awards granted or modified after the adoption of
    SFAS 123(R). Awards outstanding prior to the adoption of
    SFAS 123(R) will continue to be recognized over the
    explicit service period. If we had followed the nonsubstantive
    vesting provisions of SFAS 123(R) for retirement eligible
    employees, the impact on pro forma net income and pro forma
    diluted earnings per share would have been  de minimis. 

72

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Due to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), in fiscal 2006 we
    recognized combined employee stock purchase plan expense and
    stock option expense of $0.6 million (net of
    $0.4 million income taxes) or $0.02 per diluted share.

The following disclosure shows what our net income and earnings
    per share would have been using the fair value measurement model
    under SFAS 123 (in millions, except per share data):

Stock
    Options   

Our 2004 Incentive Stock Plan allows for the granting of options
    to certain key employees for the purchase of a maximum of
    2,000,000 shares of Common Stock plus the number of shares
    which would remain available for issuance under each preexisting
    plan if shares were issued on the effective date of this plan
    sufficient to satisfy grants then outstanding, plus the number
    of shares of Common Stock subject to grants under any
    preexisting plan which are outstanding on the effective date of
    this plan and which are forfeited or expire on or after such
    effective date. Our 2000 Incentive Stock Plan, approved in
    January 2001, allowed for the granting of options through
    January 2005 to certain key employees for the purchase of a
    maximum of 2,200,000 shares of Common Stock. Our 1993 Stock
    Option Plan allowed for the granting of options through November
    2003 to certain key employees for the purchase of a maximum of
    3,700,000 shares of Common Stock. Options that we granted
    under these plans vest in increments over a period of up to
    three years and have ten-year contractual terms.

We estimate, at the date of grant, the fair values for the
    options we granted using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
    We use historical data to estimate option exercises and employee
    terminations in determining the expected term in years for stock
    options. Expected volatility is calculated based on the
    historical volatility of our stock. The risk-free interest rate
    is based on U.S. Treasury securities in effect at the date
    of the grant of the stock options. The dividend yield is
    calculated based on our historic annual dividend payments.

We applied the following weighted average assumptions to stock
    option grants made in the following periods and such assumptions
    were used in the calculation of the pro forma data in the table
    above:

73

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The table below summarizes the changes in all stock options
    during the year ended September 30, 2006:

Our results of operations for the fiscal year ended
    September 30, 2006 include $0.2 million of
    compensation expense for stock options (net of approximately
    $0.2 million of income taxes). The weighted average grant
    date fair value for options granted during the fiscal years
    ended September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004 was $6.50, $4.47,
    and $6.35 per share, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic
    value of options exercised during the years ended
    September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $2.7 million,
    $0.6 million, and $1.1 million, respectively.

A summary of the status of our nonvested options as of
    September 30, 2005, and changes during the fiscal year
    ended September 30, 2006, is presented below:

As of September 30, 2006, there was $0.3 million of
    total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock
    options; that cost is expected to be recognized over a period of
    2.8 years. We amortize these costs using the accelerated
    attribution method. The total fair value of shares vested during
    the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004,
    was $0.2 million, $2.4 million, and $1.2 million,
    respectively.

SFAS 123(R) requires that the benefits of tax deductions in
    excess of recognized compensation cost be reported as a
    financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as
    required under prior guidance. Excess tax benefits of
    approximately $1.0 million were included in cash used for
    financing activities in fiscal 2006.

74

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Restricted
    Stock   

A summary of our unvested restricted stock awards as of
    September 30, 2005 and changes during the year ended
    September 30, 2006 is presented below:

Our results of operations for the fiscal years ended
    September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 includes
    $2.6 million, $1.7 million and $1.5 million of
    compensation expense for restricted stock, respectively. The
    weighted average grant date fair value for restricted stock
    granted during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006,
    2005 and 2004 was $13.56, $11.32 and $15.42 per share,
    respectively. The total fair value of restricted stock vested
    during the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004
    was $1.4 million, $1.2 million, and $0.3 million,
    respectively.

In fiscal 2006, 18,000 shares of restricted stock, which
    vest over one year, were granted to our non-employee directors.
    We will recognize a total of $0.3 million in compensation
    expense ($0.2 million and $0.1 million in fiscal 2006
    and 2007, respectively) in connection with these shares.
    Additionally, a combined 580,500 shares of restricted stock
    were granted to certain employees in fiscal 2006. One-third of
    these shares have a performance condition and service condition
    and two-thirds of the shares have a market condition and service
    condition. The performance condition will be met upon the
    achievement of any one of the following three criteria:

Achievement of Credit Agreement Debt to EBITDA (as defined in
    the Company s Senior Credit Facility) ratio of 4.4 or lower
    for any trailing 12 months during the service period.

Reduction of net debt as of March 31, 2005 pro forma for
    the Gulf States acquisition by $180 million by
    September 30, 2007 as adjusted for any subsequent
    acquisitions or dispositions of businesses.

An increase in diluted earnings per share, adjusted to exclude
    restructuring costs, by 15% or more in fiscal 2006 or 2007 over
    fiscal 2005.

The market condition will be met upon achievement of the
    following stock price appreciation goals as measured by the
    average New York Stock Exchange closing price for any ten
    consecutive trading days during the service period:

The condition will be met with respect to one third of the award
    if the Company achieves a stock price of $18 per share
    within the vesting period.

The condition will be met with respect to one third of the award
    if the Company achieves a stock price of $20 per share
    within the vesting period.

The condition will be met with respect to one third of the award
    if the Company achieves a stock price of $22 per share
    within the vesting period.

The service vesting condition for both the shares with a
    performance and service condition and a market and service
    condition is such that one third of each award will vest at the
    end of years three, four and five. The shares will not be deemed
    issued and will not have voting or dividend rights until the
    relevant performance or market conditions have been met. Once
    the relevant performance or market conditions have been met, the
    shares will be deemed issued and will have voting and dividend
    rights as of that time, but they will be held by the Company and
    be subject to

75

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

forfeiture if the service conditions are not met. Expense is
    recognized on the shares granted with a performance condition
    and service condition over the explicit service period because
    it is probable the performance condition will be satisfied. The
    shares issued with a performance condition were satisfied
    subsequent to the end of the fiscal year because the increase in
    diluted earnings per share, adjusted to exclude restructuring
    costs, by 15% or more in fiscal 2006 over fiscal 2005. We also
    achieved the Credit Agreement Debt to EBITDA target. Expense is
    recognized on the shares granted with a market condition and
    service condition over the requisite service period which is
    based on the longer of the derived service period or explicit
    service period. Two of the three market conditions were achieved
    in fiscal 2006 because the $18 and $20 share price hurdles
    were met. The 451,503 shares whose performance and market
    conditions were met are included in the computation of diluted
    earnings per share in accordance with Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 128,   Earnings per
    Share    ( SFAS 128 ) . Subsequent
    to year end, the third market condition of $22 per share
    was achieved. The fiscal 2006 grants that contained a market
    condition and service condition were valued using a binomial
    model. The significant assumptions used in valuing these grants
    were: an expected volatility of 38%, expected dividends of
    2.57%, a risk free rate of 4.95%, and forfeitures of 7.62%. We
    will recognize a total of $7.9 million in compensation
    expense ($0.9 million in fiscal 2006, $2.0 million in
    fiscal 2007, $2.1 million in fiscal 2008, $1.7 million in
    fiscal 2009, $0.9 million in fiscal 2010, and
    $0.3 million in fiscal 2011) in connection with these
    shares.

There was approximately $9.5 million of total unrecognized
    compensation cost related to unvested restricted shares as of
    September 30, 2006 that will be recognized over a weighted
    average remaining vesting period of 2.86 years. We have
    restricted shares outstanding granted in fiscal 2002, 2003,
    2004, and 2005, each of which vests upon completion of required
    service in one third increments on the third, fourth and fifth
    anniversary of the grant date. The grants are subject to earlier
    vesting upon satisfaction of certain earnings improvement
    criteria specific to each award in one third increments on the
    first, second and third anniversary of the grant date. The
    measurement date for early vesting of all of these grants is
    March 31 of the respective year. None of the early vesting
    periods for fiscal 2003, 2004, 2005, or 2006 grants have been
    satisfied.

Employee
    Stock Purchase Plan   

Under the Amended and Restated 1993 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
     (the  Plan ) , shares of Common Stock are
    reserved for purchase by substantially all of our qualifying
    employees. In January 2004, our board of directors amended the
    Plan to allow for the purchase of an additional
    1,000,000 shares, bringing the total authorized to a
    maximum of 3,320,000 shares of Common Stock. During the
    fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, employees purchased
    approximately 316,000 shares under the Plan. We recognized
    $0.6 million expense relating to the Plan for the fiscal
    year ended September 30, 2006 related to the 15% discount
    on the purchase price allowed to employees. As of
    September 30, 2006, approximately 259,000 shares of
    Common Stock remained available for purchase under the Plan.

Note 16.    

Business
    Interruption and Other Insurance Recoveries  

During fiscal 2006, we had a mechanical failure of the white
    liquor clarifier at our bleached paperboard mill and a flood at
    another mill. We received $4.3 million of insurance
    proceeds, after $3.9 million of deductibles, for
    $1.5 million of property damage claims and
    $2.8 million of business interruption claims. The proceeds
    from the property damage claims were used to return certain
    equipment to its original condition, perform plant clean-up, and
    replace other equipment that was damaged in the two events
    mentioned above. The majority of these recoveries are reflected
    in the line item cost of goods sold on our consolidated
    statements of income.

Note 17.    

Related
    Party Transactions  

J. Hyatt Brown, a director of our company, is chairman,
    chief executive officer and a shareholder of Brown &
    Brown, Inc., the insurance agency that brokers a portion of the
    insurance for our company. During fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004,
    we paid Brown & Brown, Inc. approximately
    $0.3 million, $0.3 million, and $0.4 million,
    respectively,

76

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

for property and casualty insurance services provided by
    Brown & Brown, Inc. and by other third parties. Third
    parties paid Brown & Brown, Inc. approximately
    $0.2 million, $0.2 million, and $0.2 million,
    respectively, for commissions on premiums for insurance
    purchased by us. For the fiscal years ended September 30,
    2006, 2005, and 2004, such payments to Brown & Brown,
    Inc., inclusive of fees for services and commissions paid,
    totaled approximately $0.5 million, $0.5 million, and
    $0.6 million, respectively. Total payments for insurance
    premiums and fees invoiced through Brown & Brown, Inc.
    (including amounts not ultimately retained by Brown &
    Brown, Inc.) were approximately $4.7 million,
    $4.8 million, and $4.6 million, in fiscal 2006, 2005,
    and 2004, respectively.

John W. Spiegel, a director of our company, was vice chairman
    and chief financial officer of SunTrust Banks, Inc. until August
    2004. Mr. Spiegel continued to serve as a non-executive
    Vice Chairman of SunTrust Bank Holding Company, a subsidiary of
    SunTrust Banks, Inc. (a non-executive position) through
    March 31, 2005. We made payments to, and had other
    transactions with, SunTrust Banks, Inc. and its subsidiaries
    during fiscal 2004.

During fiscal 2004, we maintained a revolving credit facility
    (in which SunTrust Banks, Inc. has a 22.92% share) under which
    SunTrust Bank, Atlanta, a wholly owned subsidiary of SunTrust
    Banks, Inc., served as agent. We had aggregate borrowing
    availability thereunder of $75.0 million through June 2005.
    As of September 30, 2004, we had no borrowings outstanding
    thereunder.

During fiscal 2004, we entered into derivative transactions with
    SunTrust Capital Markets. At the end of fiscal 2004, we had no
    derivative transactions in place with SunTrust Capital Markets.

At September 30, 2004, we were a party with SunTrust Banks,
    Inc. to a letter of credit agreement relating to industrial
    development revenue bonds issued on our behalf and relating to
    aspects of our business. We discontinued this arrangement in
    June 2005 when we entered into our new credit facility.

SunTrust Banks, Inc., through one of its subsidiaries, Trusco
    Capital Management, Inc., managed some of the assets in our
    defined benefit plan, which totaled approximately
    $65.0 million as of September 30, 2004.

SunTrust Banks, Inc. and its subsidiaries have performed other
    banking and financial consulting services for us in fiscal 2004.
    Our aggregate payments to SunTrust Banks, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries for these services, together with all of the other
    services described above in this section, did not exceed 1% of
    our gross revenues during fiscal 2004, or 1% of SunTrust
    Banks  gross revenues during its fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2003.

Note 18.    

Commitments
    and Contingencies  

Capital
    Additions   

Estimated costs for future purchases of fixed assets that we are
    obligated to purchase as of September 30, 2006, total
    approximately $11.5 million.

Environmental
    and Other Matters   

We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign
    environmental laws and regulations, including, among others,
    CERCLA, the Clean Air Act (as amended in 1990), the Clean Water
    Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Toxic
    Substances Control Act. These environmental regulatory programs
    are primarily administered by the US Environmental Protection
    Agency. In addition, some states in which we operate have
    adopted equivalent or more stringent environmental laws and
    regulations or have enacted their own parallel environmental
    programs, which are enforced through various state
    administrative agencies.

We believe that future compliance with these environmental laws
    and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
    However, our compliance and remediation costs could increase
    materially. In addition, we cannot currently assess with
    certainty the impact that the future emissions standards and
    enforcement practices associated with changes to regulations
    promulgated under

77

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

the Clean Air Act will have on our operations or capital
    expenditure requirements. However, we believe that any impact or
    capital expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

We have been identified as a potentially responsible party
     ( PRP )  at 10 active  superfund 
    sites pursuant to Superfund legislation. Based upon currently
    available information and the opinions of our environmental
    compliance managers and general counsel, although there can be
    no assurance, we have reached the following conclusions with
    respect to these ten sites:

With respect to each of two sites, while we have been identified
    as a PRP, our records reflect no evidence that we are associated
    with the site. Accordingly, if we are considered to be a PRP, we
    believe that we should be categorized as an unproven PRP.

With respect to each of eight sites, we preliminarily determined
    that, while we may be associated with the site and while it is
    probable that we have incurred a liability with respect to the
    site, one of the following conclusions was applicable:

With respect to each of six sites, we determined while it was
    not estimable, the potential liability was reasonably likely to
    be a  de minimis  amount and immaterial.

With respect to one site, we have preliminarily determined the
    potential liability was best reflected by a range of reasonably
    possible liabilities, all of which we expect to be  de minimis
     and immaterial.

With respect to one site, we have preliminarily determined that
    it is probable that we have incurred a liability with respect to
    this site. The status of the site is unknown, pending further
    investigation.

In addition to the above mentioned sites, four of our current or
    former locations are being investigated under various state
    regulations. These investigations may lead to remediation costs;
    however, we believe any such costs, if any, would be
    insignificant. Additional information on the four sites follows:

Contamination was discovered at the time of the GSPP Acquisition
    at two sites we acquired. We did not assume any environmental
    liabilities as part of the acquisition and we believe that we
    have strong defenses under applicable laws with respect to any
    pre-closing environmental contamination.

One of these sites is one of our former locations that is
    involved in a
     clean-up 
    under the state hazardous waste sites program. Investigations of
    a few areas of concern are continuing.

It is believed that the contamination discovered at one of the
    sites was due to an oil release by a previous owner. The
    previous owner is obligated to indemnify us for any
    contamination caused by the oil release.

Except as stated above, we can make no assessment of our
    potential liability, if any, with respect to any site. Further,
    there can be no assurance that we will not be required to
    conduct some remediation in the future at any of these sites and
    that the remediation will not have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We
    believe that we can assert claims for indemnification pursuant
    to existing rights we have under settlement and purchase
    agreements in connection with certain of these sites. There can
    be no assurance that we will be successful with respect to any
    claim regarding these indemnification rights or that, if we are
    successful, any amounts paid pursuant to the indemnification
    rights will be sufficient to cover all costs and expenses.

Guarantees   

We have made the following guarantees as of September 30,
    2006:

We have a 49% ownership interest in Seven Hills. The partners
    guarantee funding of net losses in proportion to their share of
    ownership.

78

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

We lease certain manufacturing and warehousing facilities and
    equipment under various operating leases. A substantial number
    of these leases require us to indemnify the lessor in the event
    that additional taxes are assessed due to a change in the tax
    law. We are unable to estimate our maximum exposure under these
    leases because it is dependent on changes in the tax law.

Over the past several years, we have disposed of assets
     and/or 
    subsidiaries and have assumed liabilities pursuant to asset and
    stock purchase agreements. These agreements contain various
    representations and warranties relating to matters such as title
    to assets; accuracy of financial statements; legal proceedings;
    contracts; employee benefit plans; compliance with environmental
    law; patent and trademark infringement; taxes; and products, as
    well as various covenants. These agreements may also provide
    specific indemnities for breaches of representations,
    warranties, or covenants and may contain specific
    indemnification provisions. These indemnification provisions
    address a variety of potential losses, including, among others,
    losses related to liabilities other than those assumed by the
    buyer and liabilities under environmental laws. These
    indemnification provisions may be affected by various conditions
    and external factors. Many of the indemnification provisions
    issued or modified before December 31, 2002 have expired
    either by operation of law or as a result of the terms of the
    agreement. We have not recorded any liability for the
    indemnifications issued or modified before December 31,
    2002, and are not aware of any claims or other information that
    would give rise to material payments under such indemnities. Our
    specified maximum aggregate potential liability on an
    undiscounted basis is approximately $7.8 million, other
    than with respect to certain specified liabilities, including
    liabilities relating to title, taxes, and certain environmental
    matters, with respect to which there may be no limitation. We
    estimate the fair value of our aggregate liability for
    outstanding indemnities entered into after December 31,
    2002, including the indemnities described above with respect to
    which there are no limitations, to be approximately
    $0.1 million. Accordingly, we have recorded a liability for
    that amount.

Insurance
    Placed with Kemper   

During fiscal 1985 through 2002, Kemper Insurance
    Companies/Lumbermens Mutual provided us with workers 
    compensation insurance, auto liability insurance and general
    liability insurance. Kemper has made public statements that they
    are uncertain that they will be able to pay all of their claims
    liabilities in the future. At present, based on public comments
    made by Kemper, we believe it is reasonably possible they will
    not be able to pay some or all of the future liabilities
    associated with our open and reopened claims. However, we cannot
    reasonably estimate the amount that Kemper may be unable to pay.
    Additionally, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact of state
    guarantee funds and any facultative and treaty reinsurance that
    may be available to pay such liabilities. If Kemper is
    ultimately unable to pay such liabilities, we believe the range
    of our liability is between approximately $0 and
    $2 million, and we are unable to estimate the liability
    more specifically because of the factors described above. There
    can be no assurance that any associated liabilities we may
    ultimately incur will not be material to our results of
    operations, financial condition or cash flows.

Note Receivable   

We have a note payable to and a note receivable from an obligor
    who has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. We have
    offset these notes on our consolidated balance sheet for the
    period ending September 30, 2006. Based on the terms of the
    note, we do not believe that it is probable a loss will be
    incurred. If we ultimately do suffer a loss, we believe the loss
    could range from $0 to $3 million.

Joint
    Venture Option   

Seven Hills commenced operations on March 29, 2001. Our
    partner has the option to sell us its interest in Seven Hills,
    at a formula price, effective on the sixth or any subsequent
    anniversary of the commencement date by providing notice to
    purchase their interest no later than two years prior to the
    anniversary of the commencement date on which such transaction
    is to occur. No notification has been received to date. At
    September 30, 2006, we estimate this contingent obligation
    to purchase their interest (based on the current formula) to be
    approximately $8.1 million

79

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

which would result in a current purchase price of less than 40%
    of our joint venture partner s current book net equity
    investment.

Note 19.    

Segment
    Information  

We revised our segment disclosures to separately present a new
    Corrugated segment previously included in the Merchandising
    Display segment. The financial statements presented have been
    reclassified to reflect this revision.

We report four business segments. The Packaging Products segment
    consists of facilities that produce folding cartons and interior
    packaging. The Paperboard segment consists of facilities that
    manufacture paperboard, corrugated medium, laminated paperboard
    products, and facilities that collect recovered paper. The
    Merchandising Displays segment consists of facilities that
    produce displays. The Corrugated segment consists of facilities
    that produce corrugated packaging and sheet stock. Our
    Paperboard segment consists of our paperboard and recycled fiber
    operating segments. Our Packaging Products segment consists of
    our Folding Carton and Interior Packaging operating segments.
    These operating segments are aggregated because they have
    similar: economic characteristics, products and services,
    production processes, type and class of customers, and
    distribution methods.

Certain operations included in the Packaging Products segment
    are located in Canada, Mexico, Chile and Argentina. Our foreign
    operations had segment income of $10.6 million,
    $7.5 million, and $10.8 million for fiscal years ended
    September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. For
    fiscal 2006, foreign operations represented approximately 8.9%,
    8.3% and 11.6% of total net sales to unaffiliated customers,
    segment income from operations and total identifiable assets,
    respectively. For fiscal 2005, foreign operations represented
    approximately 9.8%, 8.7% and 11.9% of total net sales to
    unaffiliated customers, segment income from operations and total
    identifiable assets, respectively. For fiscal 2004, foreign
    operations represented approximately 10.0%, 13.1% and 15.2% of
    total net sales to unaffiliated customers, segment income from
    operations and total identifiable assets, respectively. As of
    September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004, we had foreign
    long-lived assets of $85.8 million, $84.6 million, and
    $83.3 million, respectively.

We evaluate performance and allocate resources based, in part,
    on profit or loss from operations before income taxes, interest
    and other items. The accounting policies of the reportable
    segments are the same as those described above in
       Note 1. Description of Business and Summary of
    Significant Accounting Policies .   We account for
    intersegment sales at prices that approximate market prices. For
    segment reporting purposes, we include our equity in income
    (loss) from our unconsolidated joint venture, as well as our
    investment in the joint venture, in the results for the
    Paperboard segment.

Following is a tabulation of business segment information for
    each of the past three fiscal years (in millions):

80

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

81

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the fiscal
    year ended September 30, 2006 are as follows
    (in millions):

82

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Note 20.    

Financial
    Results by Quarter (Unaudited)  

(a)  

In the third quarter of fiscal 2006 we recorded a
    $3.5 million benefit primarily due to $1.2 million of
    research and development tax credits related to prior years, and
    a $1.1 million tax benefit for a reduction in deferred tax
    liabilities due primarily to recently enacted lower income tax
    rates in Canada. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we
    recorded a state tax benefit of $2.4 million which related
    primarily to a change in our state effective tax rate from
    approximately 4% to 3%. 

(b)  

In the third quarter of fiscal 2005 we recorded a
    $4.6 million benefit resulting from the resolution of
    historical federal and state tax deductions that we had
    previously reserved. 

We computed the interim earnings per common and common
    equivalent share amounts as if each quarter was a discrete
    period. As a result, the sum of the basic and diluted earnings
    per share by quarter will not necessarily total the annual basic
    and diluted earnings per share. We had net losses from
    continuing operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. In
    applying the treasury stock method for that period, the assumed
    net exercise of options and restricted awards were excluded, as
    the effect would have been antidilutive. Options and restricted
    stock awards for 3.9 million and 0.5 million shares of
    Common Stock, respectively, were excluded because their effect
    was antidilutive. If we did not have a loss in the period,
    approximately 0.6 million shares of dilutive stock options
    and restricted stock awards would have been included in the
    denominator in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.

83

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Rock-Tenn Company

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Rock-Tenn Company as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, and
    the related consolidated statements of income,
    shareholders  equity and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended September 30, 2006. Our audits
    also included the financial statement schedule listed in the
    index at Item 15(a). These financial statements and
    schedule are the responsibility of Rock-Tenn Company s
    management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
    financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
    to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
    consolidated financial position of Rock-Tenn Company at
    September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the consolidated results
    of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years
    in the period ended September 30, 2006, in conformity with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our
    opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
    considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
    as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
    information set forth therein.

As discussed in   Note 15. Shareholders 
    Equity   to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in
    2006, the Company adopted the expense recognition provisions of
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )
    No. 123 (revised 2004),   Share-Based
    Payment  .

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    effectiveness of Rock-Tenn Company s internal control over
    financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on
    criteria established in  Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
    November 17, 2006, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Atlanta, Georgia

November 17, 2006

84

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Rock-Tenn Company

We have audited management s assessment, included in the
    Internal Control Over Financial Reporting section of the
    accompanying Report of Management on Responsibility for
    Financial Information and for Establishing and Maintaining
    Adequate Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that
    Rock-Tenn Company maintained effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on
    criteria established in  Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria).
    Rock-Tenn Company s management is responsible for
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
    and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
    over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on management s assessment and an opinion on the
    effectiveness of Rock-Tenn Company s internal control over
    financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
    management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design
    and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
    such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
    circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
    basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management s assessment that Rock-Tenn
    Company maintained effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of September 30, 2006, is fairly stated, in
    all material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our
    opinion, Rock-Tenn Company maintained, in all material respects,
    effective internal control over financial reporting as of
    September 30, 2006, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of Rock-Tenn Company as of
    September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated
    statements of income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    September 30, 2006, and our report dated November 17,
    2006, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Atlanta, Georgia

November 17, 2006

85

Table of Contents   

ROCK-TENN
    COMPANY 
     
     REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON RESPONSIBILITY FOR
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND 
    FOR ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING ADEQUATE INTERNAL CONTROL
    OVER 
     FINANCIAL REPORTING  

Management s
    Responsibility for the Financial Statements   

The management of Rock-Tenn Company is responsible for the
    preparation and integrity of the Consolidated Financial
    Statements appearing in our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    The financial statements were prepared in conformity with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles appropriate
    in the circumstances and, accordingly, include certain amounts
    based on our best judgments and estimates. Financial information
    in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    is consistent with that in the financial statements.

Internal
    Control Over Financial Reporting   

Management of our company is responsible for establishing and
    maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting
    as such term is defined in
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (  Exchange
    Act  ). Our company s internal control over
    financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our
    internal control over financial reporting is supported by a
    program of internal audits and appropriate reviews by
    management, written policies and guidelines, careful selection
    and training of qualified personnel and a written Code of
    Business Conduct adopted by our company s Board of
    Directors that is applicable to all officers and employees of
    our Company and subsidiaries, as well as a Code of Business
    Conduct and Ethics for the Board of Directors that is applicable
    to all company Directors.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements and
    even when determined to be effective, can only provide
    reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement
    preparation and presentation. Also, projections of any
    evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the
    risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
    conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
    or procedures may deteriorate.

Management assessed the effectiveness of Rock-Tenn
    Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
    September 30, 2006. In making this assessment, management
    used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework.   The
    scope of our efforts to comply with the Section 404 Rules
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act with respect to fiscal 2006 included
    all of our operations. Based on our assessment, management
    believes that the Company maintained effective internal control
    over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006.

The Company s independent auditors, Ernst & Young
    LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, are
    appointed by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.
    Ernst & Young LLP has audited and reported on the
    Consolidated Financial Statements of Rock-Tenn Company and
    subsidiaries, and has issued an attestation report on
    management s assessment of the effectiveness of the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting and the
    effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting. The reports of the independent registered
    public accounting firm are contained in this Annual Report.

86

Table of Contents   

Audit
    Committee Responsibility   

The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, composed solely
    of directors who are independent in accordance with the
    requirements of the New York Stock Exchange listing standards,
    the Exchange Act and the Company s Corporate Governance
    Guidelines, meets with the independent auditors, management and
    internal auditors periodically to discuss internal control over
    financial reporting and auditing and financial reporting
    matters. The Audit Committee reviews with the independent
    auditors the scope and results of the audit effort. The Audit
    Committee also meets periodically with the independent auditors
    and the chief internal auditor without management present to
    ensure that the independent auditors and the chief internal
    auditor have free access to the Audit Committee. Our Audit
    Committee s Report can be found in our proxy statement for
    the annual meeting of our shareholders in January 2007.

james a. rubright, 
      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

steven c. voorhees, 
      Executive Vice President and 
    Chief Financial Officer 

87

Table of Contents   

Item 9.      

CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   

Not applicable   there were no changes in and
    disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial
    disclosure.

Item 9A.      

CONTROLS
    AND PROCEDURES   

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

We maintain disclosure controls and other procedures that are
    designed with the objective of ensuring the following:

that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports
    that we file or submit under the Exchange Act recorded,
    processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods
    specified in the SEC s rules and forms; and

that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports
    that we file under the Exchange Act is accumulated and
    communicated to our management, including our Chairman of the
    Board and Chief Executive Officer  ( CEO  ) and
    our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
     ( CFO  ), as appropriate to allow timely
    decisions regarding required disclosure.

We have performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the
    design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures
    as of September 30, 2006, under the supervision and with
    the participation of our management, including our CEO and CFO.
    Based on that evaluation, our CEO and CFO have concluded that
    our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of
    September 30, 2006, to provide reasonable assurance that
    material information relating to our company and our
    consolidated subsidiaries was made known to them by others
    within those entities before or during the period in which this
    annual report was being prepared.

In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and
    procedures, management recognized that any controls and
    procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can
    provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired
    control objectives, as ours are designed to do. Management also
    noted that the design of any system of controls is also based in
    part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future
    events, and that there can be no assurance that any such design
    will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential
    future conditions, regardless of how remote. Management
    necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the
    cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.

Internal
    Control Over Financial Reporting  

The report called for by Item 308(a) of
     Regulation S-K 
    is incorporated herein by reference to Report of Management on
    Responsibility for Financial Statements and Maintaining Adequate
    Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, included in
    Part II, Item 8 of this report.

The attestation report called for by Item 308(b) of
     Regulation S-K 
    is incorporated herein by reference to Attestation Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    Management s Assessment of Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting, included in Part II, Item 8 of this report.

Management has evaluated, with the participation of our CEO and
    CFO, changes in our internal controls over financial reporting
    (as defined in
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    of the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended September 30,
    2006. In connection with that evaluation, we have determined
    that there has been no change in internal control over financial
    reporting during the fourth quarter that has materially affected
    or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal
    control over financial reporting.

There have been no changes to our internal control over
    financial reporting that occurred since October 1, 2006,
    that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
    materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

88

Table of Contents   

CEO and
    CFO Certifications  

Our CEO and CFO have filed with the SEC the certifications
    required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
    as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    In addition, on February 14, 2006, our CEO certified to the
    New York Stock Exchange that he was not aware of any violation
    by the Company of the NYSE corporate governance listing
    standards as in effect on February 14, 2006. The foregoing
    certification was unqualified.

Item 9B.   OTHER
    INFORMATION   

Not applicable.

PART III  

Item 10.      

DIRECTORS
    AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   

The sections under the heading    Election of
    Directors    entitled    Nominees for
    Election   Term Expiring 2010,   Incumbent
    Directors   Term Expiring 2008,   Incumbent
    Directors   Term Expiring 2009,   Committees
    of the Board of Directors   Audit Committee, 
      and    Codes of Business Conduct and
    Ethics   Code of Ethical Conduct for Chief Executive
    Officer and Senior Financial Officers,    and under
    the heading    Executive Officers 
      entitled    Identification of Executive
    Officers    in the Proxy Statement for the Annual
    Meeting of Shareholders to be held January 26, 2007 are
    incorporated herein by reference for information on the
    directors of the Registrant. The section under the heading
       Additional Information    entitled
       Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance    in the Proxy Statement for the Annual
    Meeting of Shareholders to be held on January 26, 2007,
    which will be filed on or before December 31, 2006, is also
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.      

EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION   

The section under the heading    Election of
    Directors    entitled    Compensation of
    Directors    and the sections under the heading
       Executive Compensation    entitled
       Summary Compensation Table,   Option
    Grants Table,   Aggregated Options Table, 
     Retirement Benefit Plans    and
       Employment Agreement with James A. Rubright 
      and the information under the headings
       Report on Executive Compensation    and
       Stock Price Performance Graph    in the
    Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
    held on January 26, 2007, which will be filed on or before
    December 31, 2006, are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.      

SECURITY
    OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   

The information under the heading    Common Stock
    Ownership by Management and Principal Shareholders 
      and the section under the heading    Executive
    Compensation    entitled    Equity
    Compensation Plan Information    in the Proxy
    Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
    January 26, 2007, which will be filed on or before
    December 31, 2006, are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.      

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   

The information under the heading    Certain
    Transactions    in the Proxy Statement for the Annual
    Meeting of Shareholders to be held on January 26, 2007,
    which will be filed on or before December 31, 2006, is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.      

PRINCIPAL
    ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES   

The sections under the heading    Independent
    Registered Public Accounting Firm    entitled
       Fees    and    Audit Committee
    Pre-Approval of Services by the Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm    in the Proxy Statement for the
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on January 26,
    2007, which will be filed on or before December 31, 2006,
    is incorporated herein by reference.

89

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

Item 15.      

EXHIBITS AND
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

(a) 1.  Financial
    Statements.  

The following consolidated financial statements of our company
    and our consolidated subsidiaries and the Report of the
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm are included in
    Part II, Item 8 of this report:

2.    

Financial
    Statement Schedule of Rock-Tenn Company.  

The following financial statement schedule is included in
    Part IV of this report:

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable
    or not required.

See separate Exhibit Index attached hereto and
    incorporated herein. 

(b) 
    See Item 15(a)(3) and separate Exhibit Index attached
    hereto and incorporated herein.  

(c) 
    Not applicable.  

90

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

ROCK-TENN COMPANY

Dated: November 22, 2006

By:  /s/   JAMES
    A. RUBRIGHT  

James A. Rubright 
     Chairman of the Board and 
    Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated:

Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/   JAMES
    A. RUBRIGHT  

James
    A. Rubright

Director, Chairman of the Board
    and Chief Executive Officer (Principal  Executive Officer)

November 22, 2006

/s/   STEVEN
    C. VOORHEES  

Steven
    C. Voorhees

Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer (Principal  Financial Officer)

November 22, 2006

/s/   A.
    STEPHEN
    MEADOWS  

A.
    Stephen Meadows

Chief Accounting Officer
    (Principal Accounting Officer)

November 22, 2006

/s/   STEPHEN
    G. ANDERSON  

Stephen
    G. Anderson

Director

November 22, 2006

/s/   J.
    HYATT BROWN  

J.
    Hyatt Brown

Director

November 22, 2006

/s/   ROBERT
    B. CURREY  

Robert
    B. Currey

Director

November 22, 2006

/s/   RUSSELL
    M. CURREY  

Russell
    M. Currey

Director

November 22, 2006

/s/   G.
    STEPHEN
    FELKER  

G.
    Stephen Felker

Director

November 22, 2006

/s/   LAWRENCE
    L.
    GELLERSTEDT, III  

Lawrence
    L. Gellerstedt, III

Director

November 22, 2006

/s/   JOHN
    D. HOPKINS  

John
    D. Hopkins

Director

November 22, 2006

/s/   JAMES
    W. JOHNSON  

James
    W. Johnson

Director

November 22, 2006

/s/   JOHN
    W. SPIEGEL  

John
    W. Spiegel

Director

November 22, 2006

/s/   JAMES
    E. YOUNG  

James
    E. Young

Director

November 22, 2006

91

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO
    EXHIBITS  

Exhibit 

Number 

Description of Exhibits 

3

.1

Restated and Amended Articles of
    Incorporation of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant s Registration Statement
    on
     Form S-1, 
    File
     No. 33-73312). 

3

.2

Articles of Amendment to the
    Registrant s Restated and Amended Articles of Incorporation
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the
    Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended September 30, 2000).

3

.3

Bylaws of the Registrant
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 of the
    Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended September 30, 2003).

4

.1

Credit Agreement dated as of
    June 6, 2005, among the Registrant; Rock-Tenn Company of
    Canada; Wachovia Bank, National Association and Bank of America,
    N.A., acting through its Canada branch, as the lenders; Wachovia
    Capital Markets, LLC, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, a division of
    SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc., and Banc of America Securities,
    as the joint book runners; Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and
    SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, a division of SunTrust Capital
    Markets, Inc., as the joint lead arrangers; SunTrust Bank, as
    syndication agent; Bank of America, N.A., as documentation
    agent; and the following subsidiaries of Rock-Tenn Company, as
    guarantors: Rock-Tenn Converting Company, Waldorf Corporation,
    PCPC, Inc., Rock-Tenn Company, Mill Division, LLC, Rock-Tenn
    Packaging and Paperboard, LLC, Rock-Tenn Mill Company, LLC,
    Rock-Tenn Shared Services, LLC, Rock-Tenn Services Inc.,
    Alliance Display, LLC, Rock-Tenn Packaging Company, Rock-Tenn
    Company of Texas, Rock-Tenn Partition Company, Rock-Tenn Real
    Estate, LLC, Ling Industries Inc.,
     9124-1232 
    Quebec Inc., Groupe Cartem Wilco Inc., Wilco Inc., and Ling
    Quebec Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of
    the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended June 30, 2005).

4

.2

The Registrant agrees to furnish
    to the Securities and Exchange Commission, upon request, a copy
    of any instrument defining the rights of holders of long-term
    debt of the Registrant and all of its consolidated subsidiaries
    and unconsolidated subsidiaries for which financial statements
    are required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission.

4

.3

Indenture between Rock-Tenn
    Company and SunTrust Bank, as successor trustee to Trust Company
    Bank (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the
    Registrant s Registration Statement on
     Form S-3, 
    File
     No. 33-93934). 

*10

.1

Rock-Tenn Company 1993 Employee
    Stock Option Plan and Amendment Number One to the Rock-Tenn
    Company 1993 Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to the
    Registrant s Registration Statement on
     Form S-8, 
    File
     No. 333-77237). 

*10

.2

Rock-Tenn Company Supplemental
    Executive Retirement Plan Effective as of October 1, 1994
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the
    Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended September 30, 2000).

*10

.3

2000 Incentive Stock Plan
    (incorporated by reference to the Registrant s definitive
    Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
    filed with the SEC on December 18, 2000).

*10

.4

1993 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
    as Amended and Restated (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 99.3 to the Registrant s Registration
    Statement on
     Form S-8, 
    File
     No. 333-77237), 
    as amended by Amendment No. One to 1993 Employee Stock
    Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of
    the Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended September 30, 2003), and as further
    amended by Amendment No. Two to 1993 Employee Stock
    Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
    the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended December 31, 2003), and as further
    amended by Amendment No. Three to 1993 Employee Stock
    Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of
    the Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended September 30, 2004).

*10

.5

Rock-Tenn Company Annual Executive
    Bonus Program (incorporated by reference to the
    Registrant s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2002 Annual
    Meeting of Shareholders filed with the SEC on December 19,
    2001).

*10

.6

Rock-Tenn Company Supplemental
    Retirement Savings Plan as Effective as of May 15, 2003
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
    Registrant s Registration Statement on
     Form S-8, 
    File
     No. 333-104870). 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 

Description of Exhibits 

*10

.7

Amended and Restated Employment
    Agreement between Rock-Tenn Converting Company and James L.
    Einstein, dated as of February 21, 2003 (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the Registrant s Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended September 30, 2003).

*10

.8

2004 Incentive Stock Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Registrant s Current Report on
     Form 10-K 
    filed with the SEC on February 3, 2005).

*10

.9

2005 Shareholder Value
    Creation Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended June 30, 2005).

10

.10

Amended and Restated Credit and
    Security Agreement dated as of October 26, 2005 among
    Rock-Tenn Financial, Inc., as Borrower, Rock-Tenn Converting
    Company, as Servicer, the Liquidity Banks from time to time
    party hereto, SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc., as TPF Agent and a
    Co-Agent and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Blue Ridge
    Agent, a Co-Agent and Administrative Agent (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant s
    Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended December 31, 2005).

10

.11

Amended and Restated Receivables
    Sale Agreement dated as of October 26, 2005 among Rock-Tenn
    Company, as Parent, Rock-Tenn Company of Texas, Rock-Tenn
    Converting Company, Rock-Tenn Mill Company, LLC, Rock-Tenn
    Packaging and Paperboard, LLC, PCPC, Inc. and Waldorf
    Corporation, as Originators, and Rock-Tenn Financial, Inc., as
    Buyer (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the
    Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended December 31, 2005).

*10

.12

Amendment to Rock-Tenn Company
    Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan Effective as of
    November 11, 2005 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.3 of the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended December 31, 2005).

*10

.13

Amended and Restated Rock-Tenn
    Company Supplemental Retirement Savings Plan Effective as of
    January 1, 2006 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.4 of the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended December 31, 2005).

*10

.14

Employment Agreement between
    Rock-Tenn Company and James A. Rubright, dated as of
    February 6, 2006 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended March 31, 2006).

10

.15

Amendment to Amended and Restated
    Credit and Security Agreement dated as of October 25, 2006
    among Rock-Tenn Financial, Inc., as Borrower, Rock-Tenn
    Converting Company, as Servicer, Variable Funding Capital
    Company LLC, as assignee of Blue Ridge Asset Funding
    Corporation, Three Pillars Funding LLC and SunTrust Bank as
    liquidity provider to TPF, SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc., as
    agent for the TPF Group, and Wachovia Bank, National
    Association, as liquidity provider to VFCC, agent for the VFCC
    Group and Administrative Agent.

12

Statement re: Computation of Ratio
    of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

21

Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23

Consent of Ernst & Young
    LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

31

.1

Certification Accompanying
    Periodic Report Pursuant to Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, executed by James A. Rubright,
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Rock-Tenn
    Company.

31

.2

Certification Accompanying
    Periodic Report Pursuant to Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, executed by Steven C. Voorhees,
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
    Rock-Tenn Company.

Additional Exhibits.

In accordance with SEC Release
     No. 33-8238, 
    Exhibit 32.1 is to be treated as  accompanying 
    this report rather than  filed  as part of the report.

32

.1 

Certification Pursuant to
    18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, executed by
    James A. Rubright, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
    Officer of Rock-Tenn Company, and by Steven C. Voorhees,
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
    Rock-Tenn Company.

*  

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE II  

ROCK-TENN COMPANY 

September 30, 2006 

(In millions) 

<EX-10.15>
 2
 g04353exv10w15.htm
 EX-10.15 AMENDED CREDIT & SECURITY AGREEMENT

EX-10.15 AMENDED CREDIT & SECURITY AGREEMENT 

Exhibit 10.15

AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AND SECURITY AGREEMENT 

THIS AMENDMENT   (this    Amendment   ) is entered into as of October 25, 2006, by and among:

(a) Rock-Tenn Financial, Inc., a Delaware corporation (   Borrower   ),

(b) Rock-Tenn Converting Company, a Georgia corporation (   Converting   ), as
initial Servicer (the Servicer together with Borrower, the    Loan Parties    and each,
a    Loan Party   ),

(c) Variable Funding Capital Company LLC, a Delaware limited liability company,
as assignee of Blue Ridge Asset Funding Corporation (   VFCC    or a    Conduit   ), and
Wachovia Bank, National Association, in its capacity as liquidity provider to VFCC
(together with its successor,    Wachovia    and together with VFCC, the    VFCC Group    or
a    Conduit Group   ),

(d) Three Pillars Funding LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (   TPF    or a
   Conduit   ), and SunTrust Bank, in its capacity as liquidity provider to TPF
(together with its successor,    SunTrust    and together with TPF, the    TPF Group    or a
   Conduit Group   ),

(e) Wachovia Bank, National Association, in its capacity as agent for the VFCC
Group (together with its successors and assigns in such capacity, the    VFCC Agent   
or a    Co-Agent   ), and SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc., in its capacity as agent for
the TPF Group (together with its successors and assigns in such capacity, the    TPF
Agent    or a    Co-Agent   ), and

(f) Wachovia Bank, National Association, in it capacity as administrative agent
for the Lenders hereunder or any successor administrative agent hereunder (together
with its successors and assigns hereunder, the    Administrative Agent  and together
with the Co-Agents, the  Agents   ),

with respect to that certain Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement dated as of October
26, 2005, by and among the parties (the    Existing Agreement   ). The Existing Agreement as amended
hereby is sometimes hereinafter referred to as the    Agreement.   

Unless otherwise indicated, capitalized terms used in this Amendment are used with the
meanings attributed thereto in the Existing Agreement.  

WITNESSETH:  

WHEREAS,   the parties wish to modify the Existing Agreement as hereinafter set
forth;

NOW, THEREFORE,   in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements herein contained,
the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

1.    Amendment to Existing Agreement   .  Subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth, the parties hereby agree as follows:

1.1. All references in the Existing Agreement to  Blue Ridge Asset Funding Corporation  and to
 Blue Ridge  (whether alone or as part of another defined term) are hereby replaced with references
to  Variable Funding Capital Company LLC  and  VFCC , respectively.

1.2. Section 3.1 of the Existing Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to
read as follows:

Section 3.1.  CP Costs . Borrower shall pay CP Costs with respect to the
principal balance of the Loans from time to time outstanding.

1.3. Section 14.5(b) of the Existing Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety
to read as follows:

(b) Each of the Lenders and each of the Agents shall maintain and shall cause
each of its officers, directors, employees, investors, potential investors, credit
enhancers, outside accountants, attorneys and other advisors to maintain the
confidentiality of any nonpublic information with respect to the Originators and
the Loan Parties, except that any of the foregoing may disclose such information
(i) to any party to this Agreement, (ii) to any provider of a surety, guaranty or
credit or liquidity enhancement to any Conduit, (iii) to the outside accountants,
attorneys and other advisors of any Person described in clause (i) or (ii) above,
(iv) to any prospective or actual assignee or participant of any of the Agents or
any Lender, (v) to any rating agency who rates the Commercial Paper, to any
Commercial Paper dealer, (vi) to any other entity organized for the purpose of
purchasing, or making loans secured by, financial assets for which Wachovia or
SunTrust (or one of their Affiliates) acts as the administrative agent and to any
officers, directors, employees, outside accountants and attorneys of each of the
foregoing,   provided that   each Person described in the foregoing clause (ii), (iii),
(iv), (v) or (vi) is informed of the confidential nature of such information and,
in the case of a Person described in clause (iv), agrees in writing to maintain the
confidentiality of such information in accordance with this Section 14.5(b); and
(vii) as required pursuant to any law, rule, regulation, direction, request or
order of any judicial, administrative or regulatory authority or proceedings
(whether or not having the force or effect of law). Notwithstanding the foregoing,
(x) each Conduit and its officers, directors, employees, investors, potential
investors, credit enhancers, outside accountants, attorneys and other advisors
shall be permitted to disclose Receivables performance information and details
concerning the structure of the facility contemplated hereby in summary form and in
a manner not identifying the Originators, the Borrower, the Servicer, the Parent,
or the Obligors to prospective investors in Commercial Paper issued by such
Conduit, and (y) the Conduits, the Agents and the Lenders shall have no obligation
of confidentiality in respect of
any information which may be generally available to the public or becomes
available to the public through no fault of theirs or their respective Affiliates.

2 

1.4. The following new definitions are hereby inserted in Exhibit I to the Existing Agreement
in their appropriate alphabetical order:

VFCC Commercial Paper Rate    means, for any CP Tranche Period of VFCC, a rate
 per annum  equal to the sum of (i) the rate or, if more than one rate, the weighted
average of the rates, determined by converting to an interest-bearing equivalent
rate  per annum  the discount rate (or rates) at which VFCC s Related Commercial Paper
outstanding during such CP Tranche Period has been or may be sold by any placement
agent or commercial paper dealer selected by the VFCC Agent,  plus  (ii) the
commissions and charges charged by such placement agent or commercial paper dealer
with respect to such Related Commercial Paper, expressed as a percentage of the face
amount thereof and converted to an interest-bearing equivalent rate  per annum .

1.5. Each of the following definitions in the Existing Agreement is hereby amended and
restated in its entirety to read, respectively, as follows:

CP Costs    means:

(A) for TPF, for each day, the sum of (i) discount or interest accrued on its
Related Commercial Paper at the TPF Commercial Paper Rate on such day, plus (ii) any
and all accrued commissions and fees of placement agents, dealers and issuing and
paying agents incurred in respect of such Related Commercial Paper for such day; and

(B) for VFCC, for each day, the sum of (i) discount or interest accrued on its
Related Commercial Paper at the VFCC Commercial Paper Rate on such day, plus (ii)
any and all accrued commissions and fees of placement agents, dealers and issuing
and paying agents incurred in respect of such Related Commercial Paper for such day,
plus (iii) other costs associated with funding small or odd-lot amounts with respect
to all receivable purchase facilities which are funded by Pooled Commercial Paper
for such day.

Related Commercial Paper    means, for any period with respect to either
Conduit, any Commercial Paper of such Conduit issued or deemed issued for purposes
of financing or maintaining any Loan by such Conduit (including any discount, yield,
or interest thereon) outstanding on any day during such period.

1.6.
The definition of    Pooled Commercial Paper    in Exhibit I to the Existing Agreement is
hereby deleted in its entirety.

2.    Condition Precedent   .  This Amendment shall become effective as of the date first
above written upon receipt by the Administrative Agent of a counterpart hereof duly executed by
each of the parties hereto.

3 

3.    Miscellaneous   . 

3.1. Except as expressly amended hereby, the Existing Agreement shall remain unaltered and in
full force and effect, and each of the parties hereby ratifies and confirms each of the Transaction
Documents to which it is a party.

3.2. THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS
OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA WITHOUT REFERENCE TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW.

3.3. EACH OF THE COMPANIES HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT:

3.3.1. IT IRREVOCABLY (i) SUBMITS TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION, FIRST, OF ANY
UNITED STATES FEDERAL COURT, AND SECOND, IF FEDERAL JURISDICTION IS NOT AVAILABLE, OF ANY
GEORGIA STATE COURT, IN EITHER CASE SITTING IN FULTON COUNTY, GEORGIA, IN ANY ACTION OR
PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE AGREEMENTS, AND (ii) WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST
EXTENT IT MAY EFFECTIVELY DO SO, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF
AN ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN SUCH COURTS.

3.3.2. TO THE EXTENT THAT IT HAS OR HEREAFTER MAY ACQUIRE ANY IMMUNITY FROM THE
JURISDICTION OF ANY COURT OR FROM ANY LEGAL PROCESS (WHETHER THROUGH SERVICE OR NOTICE,
ATTACHMENT PRIOR TO JUDGMENT, ATTACHMENT IN AID TO EXECUTION, EXECUTION OR OTHERWISE) WITH
RESPECT TO ITSELF OR ITS PROPERTY, IT HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES SUCH IMMUNITY IN RESPECT OF
ITS OBLIGATIONS UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE EXISTING AGREEMENT (OR EXISTING AGREEMENTS)
TO WHICH IT IS A PARTY.

3.4. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the different parties
hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original
and all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same Amendment.

Signature pages follow  

4 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,   the parties hereto have executed this Amendment as of the date first above
written.

ROCK-TENN FINANCIAL, INC., as Borrower

By: 

/s/ JUSTIN MARTORANA  

Name:  Justin Martorana 

Title:    Treasurer 

ROCK-TENN CONVERTING COMPANY,  as Servicer 

By: 

/s/ GREGORY L. KING 

Name:  Gregory L. King 

Title:    VP, Treasurer, and Assistant Secretary 

5 

VARIABLE FUNDING CAPITAL COMPANY LLC

BY: WACHOVIA CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC, ITS ATTORNEY-IN-FACT 

By:

/s/ DOUGLAS R. WILSON, SR.

Name:  Douglas R. Wilson, Sr.

Title:    Vice President 

6 

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION , as Blue Ridge Agent, a Liquidity Bank and as
Administrative Agent 

By: 

/s/ ELIZABETH R. WAGNER 

Name:  Elizabeth R. Wagner 

Title:    Managing Director 

7 

THREE PILLARS FUNDING LLC

By: 

/s/ DORIS J. HEARN 

Name:  Doris J. Hearn 

Title:    Vice President 

8 

SUNTRUST CAPITAL MARKETS, INC.,  as TPF Agent 

By: 

/s/ MICHAEL G. MAZA 

Name:  Michael G. Maza 

Title:    Managing Director 

SUNTRUST BANK,  as TPF Liquidity Bank 

By: 

/s/ STACY M. LEWIS 

Name:  Stacy M. Lewis 

Title:    Vice President 

9 

</EX-10.15>

<EX-12>
 3
 g04353exv12.htm
 EX-12 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS

EX-12 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS 

Exhibit 12

ROCK-TENN COMPANY 
STATEMENT REGARDING COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
(Amounts in millions, except ratios)

On June 6, 2005, we acquired from Gulf States Paper Corporation and
certain of its related entities substantially all of the assets of Gulf States 
Pulp and Paperboard Packaging operations and assumed certain liabilities. Pro
forma ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the years ended September 30, 2004
and 2005 were 1.57 and 1.70, respectively.

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 4
 g04353exv21.htm
 EX-21 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

EX-21 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT 

EXHIBIT 21 

ROCK-TENN COMPANY  

SUBSIDIARIES OF ROCK-TENN COMPANY  

NAME 
       
     JURISDICTION
OF INCORPORATION 

Alliance Display, LLC

Delaware 

Alliance Display Company of Canada

Nova Scotia, Canada 

Alliance Services Mexico, S. de. R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

Alliance Rock-Tenn Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

Dominion Paperboard Products Ltd.

Quebec, Canada 

Groupe Cartem Wilco Inc.

Quebec, Canada 

Ling Industries, Inc.

Quebec, Canada 

Ling Quebec, Inc.

Quebec, Canada 

PCPC, Inc.

California 

Rock-Tenn Canada Holdings II, Inc.

Georgia 

Rock-Tenn Canada Holdings, Inc.

Georgia 

Rock-Tenn Company of Canada

Nova Scotia, Canada 

Rock-Tenn Company of Canada II

Nova Scotia, Canada 

Rock-Tenn Company of Canada III

Nova Scotia, Canada 

Rock-Tenn Company of Texas

Georgia 

Rock-Tenn Company, Mill Division, LLC

Tennessee 

Rock-Tenn Converting Company

Georgia 

Rock-Tenn Financial, Inc.

Delaware 

Rock-Tenn Mill Company, LLC

Georgia 

Rock-Tenn Packaging and Paperboard, LLC

Georgia 

Rock-Tenn Packaging Company

Delaware 

Rock-Tenn Partition Company

Georgia 

Rock-Tenn Real Estate, LLC

Georgia 

Rock-Tenn Services Inc.

Georgia 

Rock-Tenn Shared Services, LLC

Georgia 

RTS Embalajes de Argentina

Argentina 

RTS Embalajes De Chile Limitada

Chile 

RTS Empaques, S. De R.L. CV

Mexico 

RTS Packaging Foreign Holdings, LLC

Georgia 

Waldorf Corporation

Delaware 

Wilco Inc.

Quebec, Canada 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 g04353exv23.htm
 EX-23 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP

EX-23 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP 

EXHIBIT 23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements of Rock-Tenn
Company of our reports dated November 17, 2006, with respect to the consolidated financial
statements and schedule of Rock-Tenn Company, Rock-Tenn Company management s assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting of Rock-Tenn Company, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
for the year ended September 30, 2006.

(i) the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-77237) pertaining to the Rock-Tenn Company 1993
Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Rock-Tenn Company 1993 Employee
Stock Option Plan, the Rock-Tenn
Company 1988 Stock Option Plan and the Rock-Tenn Company 1987 Stock Option Plan;

(ii) the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-83304) pertaining to the Rock-Tenn Company 1993
Employee Stock Option Plan, the Rock-Tenn Company 1993 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Rock-Tenn
Company Incentive Stock Option Plan, and the Rock-Tenn Company 1987 Stock Option Plan;

(iii) the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-62338) of Rock-Tenn Company pertaining to the
registration of $300,000,000 of debt securities;

(iv) the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-104870) pertaining to the Rock-Tenn Company
Supplemental Retirement Savings Plan;

(v) the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-113212) pertaining to the Rock-Tenn Company 1993
Employee Stock Purchase Plan;

(vi) the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-62346) pertaining to the Rock-Tenn Company 1993
Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the 2000 Incentive Stock Plan, and the Rock-Tenn Company 2004
Incentive Stock Plan;

(vii) the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-122745) pertaining to the Rock-Tenn Company 2004
Incentive Stock Plan; and

(viii) the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-133986) of Rock-Tenn Company pertaining to the
registration of $500,000,000 of debt securities, Preferred Stock and
Class A Common Stock.

Ernst   Young LLP

Atlanta, Georgia 
November 17, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 g04353exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO

EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO 

EXHIBIT 31.1  

CERTIFICATION
    ACCOMPANYING PERIODIC REPORT 
    PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
    OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

I, James A. Rubright, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
    Officer, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Rock-Tenn Company;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial
    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
    reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   James
    A. Rubright 

James A. Rubright

Chairman of the Board and 

Chief Executive Officer 

Date: November 22, 2006

A signed original of this written statement required by
    Section 302, or other document authenticating,
    acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears
    in typed form within the electronic version of this written
    statement required by Section 302, has been provided to
    Rock-Tenn Company and will be retained by Rock-Tenn Company and
    furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
    upon request.

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 g04353exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO

EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO 

EXHIBIT 31.2  

CERTIFICATION
    ACCOMPANYING PERIODIC REPORT 
    PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
    OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

I, Steven C. Voorhees, Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Rock-Tenn Company;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial
    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
    reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   Steven
    C. Voorhees 

Steven C. Voorhees

Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

Date: November 22, 2006

A signed original of this written statement required by
    Section 302, or other document authenticating,
    acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears
    in typed form within the electronic version of this written
    statement required by Section 302, has been provided to
    Rock-Tenn Company and will be retained by Rock-Tenn Company and
    furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
    upon request.

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 g04353exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO & CFO

EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO & CFO 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE 
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Rock-Tenn Company (the   Corporation  ),
for the year ended September 30, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the   Report  ), the undersigned, James A. Rubright, Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer of the Corporation, and Steven C. Voorhees, Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the Corporation, each certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.

/s/ JAMES A. RUBRIGHT

James A. Rubright

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

November 22, 2006

/s/ STEVEN C. VOORHEES

Steven C. Voorhees

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

November 22, 2006

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form
within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided
to Rock-Tenn Company and will be retained by Rock-Tenn Company and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.1>

