<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061205_10-K_edgar_data_53669_0000950137-06-013234_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1997671</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>824051</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>11219</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>759523</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>80</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>18</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950137-06-013234.hdr.sgml : 20061205
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061205162614
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950137-06-013234
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		22
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061205
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061205

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			JOHNSON CONTROLS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000053669
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PUBLIC BUILDING AND RELATED FURNITURE [2531]
		IRS NUMBER:				390380010
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WI
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-05097
		FILM NUMBER:		061257622

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5757 N GREEN BAY AVENUE
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 591
		CITY:			MILWAUKEE
		STATE:			WI
		ZIP:			53201
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4145241200

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5757 N GREEN BAY AVENUE
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 591
		CITY:			MILWAUKEE
		STATE:			WI
		ZIP:			53201

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 PMhzq95zDU5cgRPgxlRSC+TOrN5fiilpwZ8e+SZo04NFeIvCZGPJso7M/DxbWBwd
 7QHCLIz999Scjf7hri+k7g==

 0000950137-06-013234.txt : 20061205

10-K
 1
 c08525e10vk.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT FISCAL YEAR ENDED 9/30/06

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

For the Annual Period Ended September 30, 2006

OR 

For The Transition Period From                        To

Commission File Number 1-5097 

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 
(414) 524-1200 

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title of Each Class 

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered  

Common Stock, $.04-1/6 par value

New York Stock Exchange 

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes         No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes         No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes         No       

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. Yes         No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See the definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer                        Accelerated filer                        Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act). Yes       No    

The aggregate market value of the registrant s stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant
on March 31, 2006 was approximately $14.8 billion.

195,787,050 shares of the registrant s Common Stock, par value $0.04 1/6 per share, were
outstanding on October 31, 2006.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

Part III incorporates by reference portions of the Proxy Statement dated and to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on December 6, 2006.

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 

Index to Annual Report on Form 10-K 

Year Ended September 30, 2006 

Page 

CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS FOR FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION  

1 

PART I.   

ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS  

1 

ITEM 1A. 

RISK FACTORS  

6 

ITEM 1B. 

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

10 

ITEM 2. 

PROPERTIES  

10 

ITEM 3. 

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  

13 

ITEM 4. 

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

15 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

15 

PART II.   

ITEM 5. 

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

17 

ITEM 6. 

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

18 

ITEM 7. 

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

20 

ITEM 7A. 

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

42 

ITEM 8. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

43 

ITEM 9. 

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

88 

ITEM 9A. 

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

88 

ITEM 9B. 

OTHER INFORMATION  

89 

PART III.   

ITEM 10. 

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

90 

ITEM 11. 

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  

90 

ITEM 12. 

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

90 

ITEM 13. 

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS  

90 

ITEM 14. 

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

90 

PART IV.   

ITEM 15. 

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

91 

SIGNATURES  

92 

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  

93 

AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT    
     1992 STOCK OPTION PLAN    
     DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN    
     DIRECTOR SHARE UNIT PLAN    
     2000 STOCK OPTION PLAN    
     FORM OF RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT FOR 2001 RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN    
     EXECUTIVE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN    
     2003 STOCK PLAN FOR OUTSIDE DIRECTORS    
     LETTER AGREEMENT    
     RETIREMENT RESTORATION PLAN    
     SUMMARY OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION    
     FORM OF RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT FOR 2001 RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN    
     FORM OF STOCK OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT FOR 2000 STOCK OPTION PLAN    
     SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT    
     CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
     SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CEO    
     SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CFO    
     SECTION 906 CERTIFICATIONS OF CEO AND CFO    

Table of Contents   

CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS FOR FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION  

Unless otherwise indicated, references to  Johnson Controls,  the  Company,   we,   our  and  us 
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Johnson Controls, Inc. and its consolidated
subsidiaries.

We have made forward-looking statements in this document pertaining to our financial results for
future years that are based on preliminary data and are subject to risks and uncertainties. All
statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that are or could be deemed
forward-looking statements, including information concerning possible or assumed future risks. For
those statements, we caution that numerous important factors as described in Item 1A of this report
could affect our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results to differ
materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the
Company.

PART I  

ITEM 1     BUSINESS  

General Development of Business 

Johnson Controls is a Wisconsin corporation organized in 1885. Its principal office is located at
5757 North Green Bay Avenue, P.O. Box 591, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53201. From 1885 through 1978, the
Company s operations were predominantly in the building efficiency business. Since 1978, the
Company s operations have been diversified through acquisitions and internal growth. In December
2005, the Company significantly expanded the building efficiency business with the acquisition of
York International Corporation (York), a global supplier of heating, ventilation, and
air-conditioning (HVAC) mechanical equipment and services. The Company operates in three primary
businesses: building efficiency, automotive experience, and power solutions.

The building efficiency business is a global market leader in designing, producing, marketing and
installing HVAC equipment and building control systems that monitor, automate and integrate
critical building operating equipment and conditions. In addition, the building efficiency business
provides technical and facility management services, including comfort, energy and security
management for the non-residential buildings market. The business s installed systems integrate the
management and operation of the building control systems such as temperature, ventilation,
humidity, fire-safety and security. The business s technical and facility management services
provide a complete suite of integrated solutions to improve building operations and maintenance.

In 1985, the Company entered the automotive seating market through the acquisition of Hoover
Universal, Inc. During the late 1990 s, the Company expanded into additional interior systems and
geographic markets. The Company s automotive seating and interior systems business operates under
the name automotive experience, and the Company believes it is among the world s largest automotive
suppliers. Automotive experience provides seating, instrument panel, overhead, floor console and
door systems to more than 35 million vehicles annually.

In 1978, the Company entered the North American battery market through the acquisition of
Globe-Union, Inc. and the Company has grown in this market through internal growth and strategic
acquisitions. The Company s power solutions business services both automotive original equipment
manufacturers and the general vehicle battery aftermarket by providing advanced battery technology,
coupled with systems engineering, marketing and service expertise. The Company produces more than
110 million lead-acid batteries annually, and offers nickel-metal-hydride and lithium-ion battery
technology to power hybrid vehicles.

Financial Information About Business Segments 

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information,  establishes the standards for reporting information about
operating segments in financial statements. In applying the criteria set forth in SFAS No. 131, the
Company has determined that it has ten reportable segments for financial reporting purposes.
Certain operating segments are aggregated or combined based on materiality within building
efficiency   rest of world and power solutions in accordance with the standard. The Company s ten

1 

Table of Contents   

reportable segments are presented in the context of its three primary businesses: building
efficiency, automotive experience and power solutions.

Refer to Note 18,  Segment Information,  of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in
Item 8 of this report for financial information about business segments.

For purposes of the following discussion of the Company s businesses, the three automotive
experience segments and the five building efficiency segments are presented together due to their
similar customers and the similar nature of their products, production processes, and distribution
channels.

Products/Systems and Services 

Building efficiency  

Building efficiency is the global leader in delivering integrated control systems, mechanical
equipment, services and solutions designed to improve the comfort, safety and energy efficiency of
non-residential buildings in more than 125 countries. Approximately 75% of revenues come from
technical services and the replacement and upgrade of controls and heating, ventilating and air
conditioning mechanical equipment in the existing buildings market, where the Company s large base
of current customers leads to repeat business and low cyclicality. The remaining 25% of revenues is
associated with installing controls and equipment during the construction of new buildings.
Customer relationships often span entire building lifecycles.

Building efficiency sells its control systems, mechanical equipment and services primarily through
the Company s extensive global network of sales and service offices. Some types of controls and
mechanical systems are sold to distributors of air-conditioning, refrigeration and commercial
heating systems throughout the world. Approximately 45% of building efficiency s sales are derived
from HVAC products and installed control systems. Approximately 55% originate from its service
offerings. In fiscal year 2006, building efficiency sales accounted for 32% of the Company s
consolidated net sales.

The Company s systems include York    chillers, air handlers and other HVAC mechanical equipment that
provide heating and cooling in non-residential buildings. The Metasys    control system monitors and
integrates HVAC equipment with other critical buildings systems to maximize comfort while reducing
energy and operating costs. As the largest global supplier of technical services, building
efficiency supplements or serves as in-house staff to maintain, optimize and repair building
systems made by the Company or by competitors. The Company offers a wide range of solutions such as
performance contracting under which energy savings are used by the customer to pay a third party
financier for the project costs over a number of years. In addition, workplace solutions provides
full-time on-site operations staff and real estate consulting services to help customers,
especially multi-national companies, reduce costs and improve the performance of their facility
portfolios. The Company s on-site staff typically self-performs tasks related to the comfort and
reliability of the facility, and manages the subcontractors for functions like foodservice and
landscaping. Through its unitary products business, the Company produces air conditioning and
heating equipment for the residential market.

Automotive experience  

Automotive experience designs and manufactures products and systems for passenger cars and light
trucks, including vans, pick-up trucks and sport/crossover utility vehicles. The business produces
automotive interior systems for original equipment manufacturers and operates approximately 110
wholly- and majority-owned manufacturing or assembly plants in 28 countries worldwide (see Item 2
 Properties ). Additionally, the business has partially-owned affiliates in Asia, Europe, North
America and South America.

Automotive experience systems and products include complete seating systems and components;
cockpit systems, including instrument clusters, information displays and body controllers;
overhead systems, including headliners and electronic convenience features; floor consoles; and
door systems. In fiscal year 2006, automotive experience sales accounted for 57% of the Company s
consolidated net sales.

2 

Table of Contents   

The business operates assembly plants that supply automotive manufacturers with complete seats on a
 just-in-time/in-sequence  basis. Seats are assembled to specific order and delivered on a
predetermined schedule directly to an automotive assembly line. Certain of the business s other
automotive interior systems are also supplied on a  just-in-time/in-sequence  basis. Foam and metal
seating components, seat covers, seat mechanisms and other components are shipped to these plants
from the business s production facilities or outside suppliers.

The business has substantially grown its interior systems capabilities through internal growth
aided by acquisitions. In fiscal year 2002, the business expanded its capabilities in vehicle
electronics with its acquisition of the automotive electronics business of France-based Sagem SA.
In fiscal year 2003, the Company acquired Borg Instruments AG, an automotive electronics company
with headquarters in Germany.

Power solutions  

Power solutions services both automotive original equipment vehicle manufacturers and the battery
aftermarket by providing advanced battery technology, coupled with systems engineering, marketing
and service expertise. The Company is the largest automotive battery manufacturer in the world,
producing more than 110 million lead-acid batteries annually in approximately 60 manufacturing or
assembly plants in 9 countries. Investments in new product and process technology have expanded
product offerings to nickel-metal-hydride and lithium-ion battery technology to power hybrid
vehicles.

Sales of automotive batteries generated 11% of the Company s fiscal year 2006 consolidated net
sales. In fiscal year 2002, power solutions expanded its battery operations into the European
market through the acquisition of the German automotive battery manufacturer Hoppecke Automotive
GmbH and Co. KG. In fiscal year 2003, the Company continued its expansion into the European market
with its acquisition of VARTA Automotive GmbH and the 80% majority ownership in VB Autobatterie
GmbH (collectively  VARTA ), a major European automotive battery manufacturer headquartered in
Germany. In fiscal year 2004, the Company acquired the remaining 51% interest in its Latin American
joint venture with Grupo IMSA, S.A. de C. V. In fiscal year 2005, the Company acquired Delphi
Corporation s global battery business and received a global long-term contract to supply General
Motors Corporation with original equipment and original equipment service batteries. The
acquisitions support the Company s growth strategies and provide new opportunities to strengthen
the Company s global leadership position in the automotive battery industry. Batteries and plastic
battery containers are manufactured at wholly and partially owned plants in North America, South
America, Asia, the Middle East and Europe (see Item 2  Properties ).

Major Customers and Competition 

As described previously, the Company is a major supplier to the automotive industry. Sales from all
three businesses to its major customers, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, were as follows
for the most recent fiscal years:

In fiscal year 2006, approximately 40% of the Company s sales to these manufacturers originated in
the U.S., 43% originated in Europe and 17% originated in other foreign markets. Because of the
importance of new vehicle sales of major automotive manufacturers to its operations, the Company is
affected by general business conditions in this industry. Sales to additional automakers in fiscal
year 2006 that accounted for more than 5% of the Company s consolidated net sales included Nissan
Motor Co., Ltd. and Volkswagen AG. The Company is also a major supplier to Toyota Motor Corporation
through wholly owned facilities and unconsolidated joint ventures.

3 

Table of Contents   

Building efficiency  

The building efficiency business conducts certain of its operations through thousands of individual
contracts that are either negotiated or awarded on a competitive basis. Key factors in the award of
contracts include system and service quality, price, design, reputation, technology, efficiency,
acoustics, application engineering capability and construction management expertise. Competition
for contracts includes many regional, national and international controls providers; larger
competitors include Honeywell International, Inc.; Siemens Building Technologies, an operating
group of Siemens AG; Carrier Corporation, a subsidiary of United Technologies Corporation; The
Trane Company, a subsidiary of American Standard Companies Inc.; Rheem Manufacturing Company;
Lennox International, Inc.; and Goodman Global, Inc. The services market is highly fragmented, with
no one company being dominant. Sales of these services are largely dependent upon numerous
individual contracts with commercial businesses worldwide; the loss of any individual contract
would not have a material adverse effect on the Company.

Automotive experience  

The automotive experience business faces competition from other automotive suppliers and, with
respect to certain products, from the automobile manufacturers who produce or have the capability
to produce certain products the business supplies. Competition is based on technology, quality,
reliability of delivery and price. Design, engineering and product planning are increasingly
important factors. Independent suppliers that represent the principal automotive experience
competitors include Lear Corporation, Faurecia SA, and Magna Automotive Inc.

Power solutions  

Approximately 80% of automotive battery sales worldwide in fiscal year 2006 were to the automotive
replacement market, with the remaining sales to the original equipment market. Power solutions is
the principal supplier of batteries to many of the largest merchants in the battery aftermarket,
including Advance Auto Parts, AutoZone, Robert Bosch GmbH, Costco, Interstate Battery System of
America, Pep Boys, Sears, Roebuck   Co and Wal-Mart stores. Automotive batteries are sold
throughout the world under private label and under the Company s brand names (Optima   , Varta   , LTH   
and Heliar   ) to automotive replacement battery retailers and distributors and to automobile
manufacturers as original equipment. The power solutions business primarily competes in the battery
market with Exide Technologies, GS Yuasa Corporation, East Penn Manufacturing Company and Fiamm
Group.

Backlog 

At September 30, 2006, the Company s automotive experience backlog of net new incremental business
to be executed within the next three fiscal years was approximately $3.5 billion, $1.0 billion of
which relates to fiscal year 2007. The backlog as of September 30, 2005 was approximately $3.3
billion, $1.2 billion which related to fiscal year 2006. The decrease in the subsequent year
backlog is primarily due to lower vehicle production volumes in North America. The automotive
backlog is generally subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, such as related vehicle
production volumes, the timing of related production launches and changes in customer development
plans.

The Company s backlog relating to the building efficiency business is applicable to its sales of
systems and services. At September 30, 2006, the backlog was $3.7 billion, compared with $1.9
billion for the prior year, primarily due to the acquisition of York. The preceding data does not
include amounts associated with facility management service contracts because such contracts are
typically multi-year service awards. The backlog amount outstanding at any given time is not
necessarily indicative of the amount of revenue to be earned in the coming fiscal year period.

Raw Materials 

Raw materials used by the businesses in connection with their operations, including steel, urethane
chemicals, lead, copper, sulfuric acid and polypropylene, were readily available during the year
and such availability is expected to continue. Except for volatility in lead prices, the Company
expects other key commodity costs, such as copper, steel, foam chemicals, resin and fuel to be
stable in fiscal year 2007, with the possibility of some softening during the year.

4 

Table of Contents   

Intellectual Property 

Generally, the Company seeks statutory protection for strategic or financially important
intellectual property developed in connection with its business. Certain intellectual property,
where appropriate, is protected by contracts, licenses, confidentiality or other agreements.

The Company owns numerous U.S. and foreign patents (and their respective counterparts), the more
important of which cover those technologies and inventions embodied in current products, or which
are used in the manufacture of those products. While the Company believes patents are important to
its business operations and in the aggregate constitute a valuable asset, no single patent, or
group of patents, is critical to the success of the business. The Company, from time to time,
grants licenses under its patents and technology and receives licenses under patents and technology
of others.

The Company s trademarks, certain of which are material to its business, are registered or
otherwise legally protected in the U.S. and many foreign countries throughout the world in which
products and services of the Company are sold. The Company, from time to time, becomes involved in
trademark licensing transactions.

Most works of authorship produced for the Company, such as computer programs, catalogs and sales
literature, carry appropriate notices indicating the Company s claim to copyright protection under
U.S. law and appropriate international treaties.

Environmental, Health and Safety Matters 

Laws addressing the protection of the environment (Environmental Laws) and workers  safety and
health (Worker Safety Laws) govern the Company s ongoing global operations. They generally provide
for civil and criminal penalties, as well as injunctive and remedial relief, for noncompliance or
require remediation of sites where Company-related materials have been released into the
environment.

The Company has expended substantial resources globally, both financial and managerial, to comply
with Environmental Laws and Worker Safety Laws and maintains procedures designed to foster and
ensure compliance. Certain of the Company s businesses are or have been engaged in the handling or
use of substances that may impact workplace health and safety or the environment. The Company is
committed to protecting its workers and the environment against the risks associated with these
substances.

The Company s operations and facilities have been, and in the future may become, the subject of
formal or informal enforcement actions or proceedings for noncompliance with such laws or for the
remediation of Company-related substances released into the environment. Such matters typically are
resolved by negotiation with regulatory authorities that result in commitments to compliance,
abatement, or remediation programs and, in some cases, payment of penalties. Historically, neither
such commitments nor such penalties have been material. (See Item 3  Legal Proceedings  of this
report for a discussion of the Company s potential environmental liabilities.)

Environmental Capital Expenditures 

The Company s ongoing environmental compliance program often results in capital expenditures.
Environmental considerations are a part of all significant capital expenditures; however,
expenditures in fiscal year 2006 related solely to environmental compliance were not material. It
is management s opinion that the amount of any future capital expenditures related solely to
environmental compliance will not have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial results
or competitive position in any one year.

Employees 

As of September 30, 2006, the Company employed approximately 136,000 employees, of whom
approximately 75,000 were hourly and 61,000 were salaried.

5 

Table of Contents   

Seasonal Factors 

Sales of automotive seating   interior systems and batteries to automobile manufacturers for use as
original equipment are dependent upon the demand for new automobiles. Management believes that
demand for new automobiles generally reflects sensitivity to overall economic conditions with no
material seasonal effect. The automotive replacement battery market is affected by weather patterns
because batteries are more likely to fail when extremely low temperatures place substantial
additional power requirements upon a vehicle s electrical system. Also, battery life is shortened
by extremely high temperatures, which accelerate corrosion rates. Therefore, either mild winter or
moderate summer temperatures may adversely affect automotive replacement battery sales. Certain of
building efficiency s sales are seasonal as the demand for residential air conditioning equipment
generally increases in the summer months, while the demand for furnaces peaks during the autumn
months. This seasonality is mitigated by the other products and services provided by the building
efficiency business which have no material seasonal effect.

Financial Information About Geographic Areas 

Refer to Note 18,  Segment Information,  of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in
Item 8 of this report for financial information about geographic areas.

Research and Development Expenditures 

Refer to Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,  of the notes to the consolidated
financial statements in Item 8 of this report for research and development expenditures.

Available Information 

The Company s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, definitive proxy statements on Schedule 14A,
current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13 or
15(d) of the Exchange Act, are made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section
of the Company s Internet website at
 http://www.johnsoncontrols.com  as soon as reasonably
practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.
Copies of any materials the Company files with the SEC can also be obtained free of charge through
the SEC s website at  http://www.sec.gov , at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling the SEC s Office of Investor Education and Assistance at
1-800-732-0330. The Company also makes available, free of charge, its Ethics Policy, Corporate
Governance Guidelines, committee charters and other information related to the Company on the
Company s Internet website or in printed form upon request. The Company is not including the
information contained on the Company s website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into,
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 1A     RISK FACTORS  

General Risks  

We are subject to pricing pressure from our larger customers. 

We face significant competitive pressures in all of our business segments. Because of their
purchasing size, our larger customers can influence market participants to compete on price terms.
If we are not able to offset pricing reductions resulting from these pressures by improved
operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those pricing reductions may have an adverse
impact on our business.

We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations which could adversely affect our
results of operations. 

We have significant operations in a number of countries outside the U.S., some of which are located
in emerging markets. The persistence of long-term economic uncertainty in some of the regions of
the world in which we operate,

6 

Table of Contents   

such as Asia, South America, the Middle East and other emerging markets, could result in the
disruption of markets and negatively affect the adequacy of cash flows from our operations to cover
our capital needs and debt service.

In addition, as a result of our global presence, a significant portion of our revenues and expenses
are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. We are therefore subject to foreign currency
risks and foreign exchange exposure. Our primary exposures are to the euro, British pound, Mexican
peso, Canadian dollar, Czech koruna, Slovak koruna and Japanese yen. While we employ financial
instruments to hedge transactional and foreign exchange exposure, these activities do not insulate
us completely from those exposures.

There are other risks that are inherent in our non-U.S. operations, including the potential for
changes in socio-economic conditions, laws and regulations, including import, export, labor and
environmental laws and monetary and fiscal policies, protectionist measures that may prohibit
acquisitions or joint ventures, unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks
against American interests.

These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our non-U.S. operations and therefore
on our business and results of operations.

We are subject to regulation of our international operations that could adversely affect our
business and results of operations. 

Due to our global operations, we are subject to many laws governing international relations,
including those that prohibit improper payments to foreign government officials and restrict where
we can do business, what information or products we can supply to certain countries and what
information we can provide to a foreign government, including but not limited to the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. Violations of these laws, which are
complex and often times difficult to interpret and apply, may result in severe criminal penalties
or sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, financial
condition and results of operations. As disclosed in previous filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, we have learned that York engaged in conduct that may lead to enforcement
actions against us under applicable U.S. trade and similar laws, which give authorities the right
to pursue administrative, civil and criminal sanctions, including monetary penalties.

We are subject to costly requirements relating to environmental regulation and environmental
remediation matters, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 

At September 30, 2006, we recorded a liability of $34 million relating to environmental matters.
Because of the uncertainties associated with environmental regulation and environmental remediation
activities at sites where we may be potentially liable, future expenses to remediate identified
sites could be considerably higher than the accrued liability, which could have a material adverse
effect on our business and results of operations.

Negative or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our results of operations. 

Adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations in several
jurisdictions could lead to changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and
other tax reserves that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.

Additionally, we are subject to tax audits by governmental authorities in the U.S. and foreign
jurisdictions. Because the results of tax audits are inherently uncertain, negative or unexpected
results from one or more such tax audits could adversely affect our results of operations.

We may be adversely affected by legal proceedings in which we are, or may be, a party. 

We are currently and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or
contractual disputes. These are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business
including, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes with our suppliers, intellectual
property matters and employment claims. There exists the possibility that such claims may have an
adverse impact on our results of operations that is greater than we anticipate.

7 

Table of Contents   

An increase in our level of indebtedness could lead to a downgrade in the ratings of our debt and,
in turn, restrict our ability to access the debt capital markets. 

Our access to the debt capital markets may ultimately be impacted by changes in the ratings that
rating agencies assign to our debt. An increase in the level of our indebtedness in the future, to
the extent that we finance future acquisitions with debt, for example, may result in a downgrade in
the ratings that are assigned to our debt. If ratings for our debt fell below investment grade, our
access to the debt capital markets would become restricted.

Additionally, several of our credit agreements generally include an increase in interest rates if
the ratings for our debt are downgraded. Consequently, an increase in the level of our indebtedness
may result in an increase in our interest expense. Further, an increase in the level of our
indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and
may affect our ability to obtain additional financing.

We may be unable to complete or integrate acquisitions effectively, which may adversely affect our
profitability and results of operations. 

We intend to grow through the acquisition of businesses and assets that will complement our current
businesses. To date, a material portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. We cannot be
certain that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition targets, obtain financing for
acquisitions on satisfactory terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Additionally, we may
not be successful in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations and achieving
projected synergies. Competition for acquisition opportunities in the various industries in which
we operate may rise, thereby increasing our costs of making acquisitions or causing us to refrain
from making further acquisitions. These and other acquisition-related factors may negatively and
adversely impact our growth, profitability and results of operations.

Automotive Experience Risks  

Decreased demand from our customers in the automotive industry may adversely affect our results of
operations. 

In fiscal year 2006, our three largest customers were automobile manufacturers General Motors
Corporation, DaimlerChrysler AG and Ford Motor Company (the Big 3), with sales to these customers
representing approximately 32% of total company net sales. Sales to the Big 3 originating in the
U.S. represented approximately 13% of our total net sales in fiscal year 2006. Our financial
performance depends, in part, on conditions in the automotive industry. The Big 3 have experienced
declining market shares in North America and have recently announced significant restructuring
actions in an effort to improve profitability. The North American automotive manufacturers are also
burdened with substantial structural costs, such as pension and healthcare costs, that have
impacted their profitability and labor relations and may ultimately result in severe financial
difficulty, including bankruptcy. If our customers, especially the Big 3, reduce their orders to
us, our results of operations would be adversely impacted. Additionally, we have significant
component production for manufacturers of motor vehicles in the U.S., Europe, South America, Japan
and other Asia/Pacific Rim countries. Continued uncertainty relating to the financial condition of
the Big 3 and others in the automotive industry may have a negative impact on our business.

The financial distress of our suppliers could harm our results of operations. 

Our supplier base has been adversely affected by industry conditions. Lower production levels for
our key customers and increases in certain raw material, commodity and energy costs have resulted
in severe financial distress among many companies within the automotive supply base. Several large
suppliers have filed for bankruptcy protection or ceased operations. The continuation of financial
distress within the supplier base may lead to increased commercial disputes and possible supply
chain interruptions. In addition, the adverse industry environment has required us to provide
financial support to distressed suppliers or take other measures to ensure uninterrupted
production. The continuation or worsening of these industry conditions may have a negative impact
on our business.

8 

Table of Contents   

Change in consumer demand may adversely affect our results of operations. 

Recent and any future increases in energy costs that consumers incur could result in shifts in
consumer demand away from motor vehicles that typically have higher amounts of content that we
supply, such as light trucks, cross-over vehicles, minivans and SUVs, to smaller vehicles that have
lower amounts of content that we supply. The loss of business with respect to, or a lack of
commercial success of, one or more particular vehicle models for which we are a significant
supplier could reduce our sales and harm our profitability, thereby adversely affecting our results
of operations.

We may not be able to successfully negotiate pricing terms with our customers in the automotive
experience business, which may adversely affect our results of operations. 

We negotiate sales prices annually with our automotive seating and interiors customers.
Cost-cutting initiatives adopted by our customers generally result in increased downward pressure
on pricing. Our customer supply agreements generally require reductions in component pricing over
the period of production. Pricing pressures may further intensify, particularly in North America,
as domestic automotive manufacturers pursue restructuring and cost cutting initiatives to better
compete with their foreign competitors. If we are unable to generate sufficient production cost
savings in the future to offset price reductions, our results of operations may be adversely
affected.

Increases in commodity prices may adversely affect our results of operations. 

Commodity prices have risen rapidly in the past three years. In our two largest markets, North
America and Europe, the cost of commodities, primarily steel, resin and chemicals, increased (net
of recoveries through price increases to customers). If commodity prices continue to rise, and if
we are not able to recover these cost increases through price increases to our customers, then such
increases may have an adverse affect on our results of operations.

The cyclicality of original equipment automobile production rates may adversely affect the results
of operations in our automotive experience and power solutions businesses. 

Our automotive experience business and, to a lesser extent, our power solutions business are
directly related to automotive sales and automotive vehicle production by our customers. Automotive
production and sales are highly cyclical and depend on general economic conditions and other
factors, including consumer spending and preferences. Any significant economic decline that results
in a reduction in automotive production and sales by our automotive experience and power solutions
customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

A variety of factors could adversely affect the results of operations of our automotive experience
business. 

Any of the following could materially and adversely impact the results of operations of our
automotive experience business: the loss of, or changes in, automobile seating and interiors supply
contracts or sourcing strategies with our major customers or suppliers; inability to meet minimum
vendor volume requirements; start-up expenses associated with new vehicle programs or delays or
cancellations of such programs; underutilization of our manufacturing facilities, each of which is
generally located near, and devoted to, a particular customer s facility; inability to recover
engineering and tooling costs; market and financial consequences of any recalls that may be
required on products that we have supplied; delays or difficulties in new product development; the
potential introduction of similar or superior technologies; global overcapacity and vehicle
platform proliferation.

Power Solutions Risks  

We face increasing competition and pricing pressure from other companies in the power solutions
business. 

The power solutions business competes with a number of major domestic and international
manufacturers and distributors of lead-acid batteries, as well as a large number of smaller,
regional competitors. The North American, European and Asian lead-acid battery markets are highly
competitive. The manufacturers in these markets compete on price, quality, technical innovation,
service and warranty. If we are unable to remain competitive and maintain market share in the
regions and markets we serve, our results of operations may be adversely affected.

9 

Table of Contents   

A variety of factors could adversely affect the results of operations of our power solutions
business. 

Any of the following could materially and adversely impact the results of operations of our power
solutions business: loss of or changes in automobile battery supply contracts with our large
original equipment and aftermarket customers; the increasing quality and useful life of batteries
or use of alternative battery technologies, both of which may contribute to a growth slowdown in
the lead-acid battery market; delays or cancellations of new vehicle programs; market and financial
consequences of any recalls that may be required on our products; delays or difficulties in new
product development, including nickel-metal-hydride/lithium-ion technology; financial instability
or market declines of our customers or suppliers; the increasing global environmental regulation
related to the manufacture of lead-acid batteries; factors adversely affecting the supply and
availability of raw materials, primarily lead and poly/plastics, necessary for production; and
rapid increases and volatility of commodity prices, particularly with respect to lead, resin and
fuel.

Building Efficiency Risks  

Our building efficiency business relies to a great extent on contracts and business with government
entities, the loss of which may adversely affect our results of operations. 

Our building efficiency business contracts with government entities and is subject to specific
rules, regulations and approvals applicable to government contractors. We are subject to routine
audits by the federal Defense Contract Audit Agency to assure our compliance with these
requirements. Our failure to comply with these or other laws and regulations could result in
contract terminations, suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. federal government,
civil fines and damages and criminal prosecution. In addition, sales to government entities may be
affected by changes in procurement policies, budget considerations, unexpected U.S. developments,
such as terrorist attacks, or similar political developments or events abroad that may change the
U.S. federal government s national security defense posture.

A variety of factors could adversely affect the results of operations of our building efficiency
business. 

Any of the following could materially and adversely impact the results of operations of our
building efficiency business: loss of, or changes in, building automation or facility management
supply contracts with our major customers; delays or difficulties in new product development; the
potential introduction of similar or superior technologies; financial instability or market
declines of our major or component suppliers; the unavailability of raw materials, primarily steel,
copper and electronic components, necessary for production of HVAC equipment; rapid increases and
volatility of commodity prices; unseasonable weather conditions in various parts of the world; a
significant decline in the construction of new commercial buildings requiring interior control
systems; changes in energy costs or governmental regulations that would decrease the incentive for
customers to update or improve their interior control systems; increased energy efficiency
legislation requirements worldwide; and a decline in the outsourcing of facility management
services.

ITEM 1B     UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the
staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our fiscal year 2006 that
remain unresolved.

ITEM 2     PROPERTIES  

At September 30, 2006, the Company conducted its operations in 52 countries throughout the world,
with its world headquarters located in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The Company s wholly- and
majority-owned facilities, which are listed in the table on the following pages by business and
location, totaled approximately 92 million square feet of floor space and are owned by the Company
except as noted. The facilities primarily consisted of manufacturing, assembly and/or warehouse
space. The Company considers its facilities to be suitable and adequate. The majority of the
facilities are operating at normal levels based on capacity.

10 

Table of Contents   

Automotive Experience  

Alabama

Cottondale (1),(3) 

Eastaboga 

California

Livermore (2),(3) 

Georgia

Norcross (1) 

Suwanee (1) 

Illinois

Sycamore (2),(3) 

Indiana

Ossian 

Kentucky

Bardstown (3) 

Cadiz (3) 

Georgetown (3) 

Shelbyville (1) 

Winchester (1) 

Louisiana

Shreveport 

Michigan

Battle Creek 

Detroit (3) 

Holland (2),(3) 

Lansing (3) 

Mt. Clemens (1),(3) 

Plymouth (2),(3) 

Rockwood (3) 

Taylor (1),(3) 

Van Buren (3) 

Warren (3) 

Zeeland (1),(3) 

Mississippi

Madison 

Missouri

Earth City (1),(3) 

Jefferson City (3) 

New Jersey  
Ohio

Dayton (1),(3) 
Greenfield 

Northwood 

Oberlin (1),(3) 

West Carrollton (1) 

Oklahoma

Oklahoma City (3) 

Tennessee

Athens (2) 

Lexington (3) 

Murfreesboro (2) 

Pulaski (2),(3) 

Texas

El Paso (1),(3) 

San Antonio (2),(3) 

Virginia

Chesapeake (1) 

Wisconsin

Hudson (1),(3) 

Argentina

Buenos Aires (1) 

Rosario 

Austria

Graz (1),(3) 

Mandling (3) 

Schmiedlstrabe (1),(3) 

Belgium

Geel (3) 

Gent (1),(3) 

Brazil

Gravatai (3) 

Pouso Alegre 

San Bernardo do Campo (1) 

Santo Andre 

Sao Jose dos Campos 

Sao Jose dos Pinhais (1) 

Canada

Milton (1),(3) 

Mississauga (1),(3) 

Orangeville 

Saint Mary s 

Tecumseh 

Tilsonburg (3) 

Whitby 

China

Beijing (3) 

Czech Republic

Benatky nad Jizerou (1),(3) 

Ceska Lipa (2),(3) 

Mlada Boleslav (1),(3) 

Ni Ebohy (1) 

Roudnice (2),(3) 

Rychnov nad Kneznou (1),(3) 

Straz pod Ralskem (3) 

France

Brioude (1),(3) 

Compagnie (3) 

Conflans (3) 

Happich (3) 

La Ferte Bernard (1),(3) 

Rosny 

Schweighaus (3) 

Strasbourg (3) 

Germany

Boblingen (1),(3) 

Bochum (1),(3) 

Bremen (1),(3) 

Burscheid (2),(3) 

Espelkamp (3) 

Grefrath (1),(3) 

Hansastr (1),(3) 

Holzgerlingen (1),(3) 

Lahnwerk (2),(3) 

Luneburg 

Neustadt (3) 

Rastatt (1),(3) 

Remchingen (3) 

Saarlouis (1) 

Uberherrn (1),(3) 

Unterriexingen (2),(3) 

Waghausel (3) 

Wuppertal (2),(3) 

Zwickau (3) 

Hungary

Pilis 

Solymar (2) 

Italy

Cicerale (3) 

Grugliasco (1),(3) 

Melfi (1),(3) 

Rocca D Evandro (1) 

Japan

Ayase (3) 

Hamakita 

Mouka 

Toyotsucho (3) 

Yokosuka (2) 

11 

Table of Contents   

Automotive Experience (cont.)  

Korea

Asan (3) 

Dangjin (3) 

Hwasung 

Jeongeup (1) 

Namsa (1) 

Malaysia

Johor Bahru 

Peramu Jaya (1) 

Persiaran Sabak Bernam 

Mexico

Monclova (3) 

Naucalpan de Juarez (1) 

Puebla (2),(3) 

Ramos Arizpe 

Tlaxcala (3) 

Tlazala (1) 

Netherlands

Ned Car (1),(3) 

Poland

Tychy (3) 

Portugal

Nelas (3) 

Portalegre (3) 

Romania

Mioveni (1),(3) 

Ploiesti (3) 

Russia

St. Petersburg (1),(3) 

Slovak Republic

Bratislava (1),(3) 

Kostany nad Turcom (3) 

Slovenia

Slovenj Gradec (1),(3) 

South Africa

East London (1) 

Pretoria (2),(3) 

Uitenhage (1) 

Spain

Alagon (3) 

Barcelona (3) 

Madrid (1),(3) 

Prat de Llobregat 

Valencia (2),(3) 

Valladolid 

Zaragoza (3) 

Thailand

Rayong (3) 

Tunisia

Bi r al Bay (3) 

United Kingdom

Burton-Upon-Trent (2),(3) 

Hedera (1),(3) 

Leamington Spa (1),(3) 

Speke (3) 

Sunderland 

Telford (2),(3) 

Wednesbury (3) 

Building Efficiency  

California

Santa Fe Springs (1), (3) 

Florida

Lagro (1) 

Illinois

Dixon (2),(3) 

Polo 

Indiana

Goshen (3) 

Kansas

Wichita (2),(3) 

Mississippi

Hattiesburg 

Missouri

Albany 

Oklahoma

Norman (1),(3) 

Pennsylvania

York 

Waynesboro (3) 

Texas

San Antonio 

Virginia

Bristol (3) 

Roanoke 

Wisconsin

Milwaukee (2),(4) 

Waukesha (1),(3) 

Brazil

Pinhais 

S o Paulo (1),(3) 

China

Guangzhou (1),(3) 

Shanghai (1),(3) 

Qingyuan (2),(3) 

Wuxi (1),(3) 

Denmark

Aarhus (1),(3) 

Hornslet (2),(3) 

Viby 

France

Craquefou (2),(3) 

Nantes 

Saint Quentin Fallavier (1),(3) 

Germany

Essen (2),(3) 

Hong Kong

Hong Kong 

Japan

Koga (3) 

Mexico

Apodaca (2) 

Cienega de Flores (1) 

Cuidad Juarez (1),(3) 

Durango 

Monterrey 

Reynosa (3) 

South Africa

Johannesburg (1),(3) 

Switzerland

Basel (1),(3) 

Zurich 

Thailand

Laem Chanbang   Chonburi 

Turkey

Istanbul (1),(3) 

Izmir (1),(3) 

United Arab Emirates

Dubai (2),(3) 

12 

Table of Contents   

Power Solutions  

Arizona

Yuma (2) 

California

Fullerton 

Colorado

Aurora (2),(3) 

Delaware

Middletown (2) 

Florida

Tampa (2) 

Illinois

Geneva 

Indiana

Ft. Wayne 

Iowa

Red Oak 

Kentucky

Florence 

Missouri

St. Joseph (2) 

New Jersey

New Brunswick 

North Carolina

Winston-Salem (2) 

Ohio

Toledo 

Oregon

Portland 

South Carolina

Oconee (2) 

Texas

San Antonio (1) 

Wisconsin

Milwaukee (4) 

Austria

Graz (1) 

Brazil

Sorocaba (3) 

China

Shanghai (3) 

Czech Republic

Ceska Lipa (3) 

France

Rouen 

Sarreguemines (3) 

Germany

Hannover (3) 

Krautscheid (3) 

Otzenhausen 

Zwickau (2),(3) 

Mexico

Celaya 

Cienega de Flores 

Escobedo 

Monterrey (2),(3) 

Torreon 

Spain

Burgos (3) 

Guadamar del Segura 

Corporate  

Wisconsin

Milwaukee (4) 

(1) 
       
     Leased facility 

(2) 
       
     Includes both leased and owned facilities 

(3) 
       
     Includes both administrative and manufacturing facilities 

(4) 
       
     Administrative facility only 

In addition to the above listing, which identifies large properties (greater than 25,000
square feet), there are approximately 390 building efficiency branch offices and other
administrative offices located in major cities throughout the world. These offices vary in size in
proportion to the volume of business in the particular locality.

ITEM 3     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  

As noted in Item 1, liabilities potentially arise globally under various Environmental Laws and
Worker Safety Laws for activities that are not in compliance with such laws and for the cleanup of
sites where Company-related substances have been released into the environment.

Currently, the Company is responding to allegations that it is responsible for performing
environmental remediation, or for the repayment of costs spent by governmental entities or others
performing remediation, at approximately 50 sites in the U.S. Many of these sites are landfills
used by the Company in the past for the disposal of waste materials; others are secondary lead
smelters and lead recycling sites where the Company returned lead-containing materials for
recycling; a few involve the cleanup of Company manufacturing facilities; and the remaining fall
into miscellaneous categories. The Company may face similar claims of liability at additional sites
in the future. Where potential liabilities are alleged, the Company pursues a course of action
intended to mitigate them.

The Company accrues for potential environmental losses in a manner consistent with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles; that is, when it is probable a loss has been incurred and the
amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. Its reserves for environmental costs totaled $34
million and $28 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company reviews the
status of the sites on a quarterly basis and adjusts its reserves accordingly. Such potential
liabilities accrued by the Company do not take into consideration possible recoveries of future
insurance proceeds. They do, however, take into account the likely share other parties will bear at
remediation sites. It is difficult to estimate the Company s ultimate level of liability at many
remediation sites due to the large number of other parties that may be involved, the complexity of
determining the relative liability among those parties, the uncertainty as to the nature and

13 

Table of Contents   

scope of the investigations and remediation to be conducted, the uncertainty in the application of
law and risk assessment, the various choices and costs associated with diverse technologies that
may be used in corrective actions at the sites, and the often quite lengthy periods over which
eventual remediation may occur. Nevertheless, the Company has no reason to believe at the present
time that any claims, penalties or costs in connection with known environmental matters will have a
material adverse effect on the Company s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

The Company is involved in a number of product liability and various other suits incident to the
operation of its businesses. Insurance coverages are maintained and estimated costs are recorded
for claims and suits of this nature. It is management s opinion that none of these will have a
material adverse effect on the Company s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Costs related to such matters were not material to the periods presented.

In 1989, Johnson Controls initiated an action in the Milwaukee County, Wisconsin Circuit Court,
 Johnson Controls, Inc. v. Employers Insurance of Wausau , which sought reimbursement under
comprehensive general liability insurance policies dating from 1954 through 1985 for costs relating
to certain environmental matters. In 1995, the Circuit Court dismissed the action based on the
Wisconsin Supreme Court s decision in  City of Edgerton v. General Casualty Co. of Wisconsin . The
Company twice appealed the case to the Court of Appeals and then petitioned the Wisconsin Supreme
Court to review the lower courts  judgments. The Supreme Court granted the petition and on July 11,
2003, overruled its decision in the Edgerton case, and found that the comprehensive general
liability insurance policies may provide coverage for environmental damages. The Supreme Court s
decision remanded the case to the Circuit Court for further consideration. In fiscal years 2005 and
2006, the Company filed motions for declaratory judgment, in which it sought a ruling that some of
its insurers breached their respective duties to defend, thus waiving defenses against the
Company s environmental claims. The Company is currently in settlement negotiations with certain of
the insurance company defendants and, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, reached agreement
with one of the defendants. The ultimate outcome of claims against the other defendants cannot be
determined at this time; however, the Company expects a decision on its motions for declaratory
judgment during fiscal year 2007.

In 2003, the Company was involved in an asbestos release during the renovation of a building in
Lakeland, Florida. Following an investigation, the U.S. EPA turned its findings over to the U.S.
Attorney for the Middle District of Florida. In November 2005, the U.S. Attorney advised the
Company that it is considering proceedings against the Company, including proceedings that would
involve criminal charges pursuant to Section 113(c) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C.   7413(c), and
Section 103 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C.
  103. The Company believes the release was totally inadvertent and does not believe this should be
a criminal matter. The Company also believes that any monetary sanctions resulting from the U.S.
Attorney s pursuit of this matter would not be material.

As previously reported, following allegations in a U.N. Oil-For-Food Inquiry Report that, prior to
the Company s acquisition of York, York had made improper payments to the Iraqi regime, York and
the Company jointly undertook to investigate the allegations and offered the companies  cooperation
to the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Securities and Exchange Commission. After completing the
York acquisition, the Company continued the internal inquiry and expanded its scope to include
other aspects of York s Middle East operations, including a review of York s use of agents,
consultants and other third parties, York s compliance with the Office of Foreign Assets Control
licensing requirements, and York s compliance with other potentially applicable trade laws. The
Company has also reviewed certain of York s sales practices in selected Asian markets. The factual
inquiry is now substantially complete and indicates that, in a number of instances, York engaged in
conduct that may lead to enforcement actions against the Company under applicable U.S. laws, which
give authorities the right to pursue administrative, civil and criminal sanctions, including
monetary penalties. The Company has been voluntarily disclosing this information and offering
continued cooperation with the DOJ and SEC, as well as to other relevant authorities in the U.S.
Departments of Treasury, Commerce and Defense. The Company has begun preliminary discussions with
the relevant authorities to explore how these matters may be resolved. The Company is in the
process of evaluating and implementing various remedial measures with respect to York operations.

14 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 4     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal
year covered by this report.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the following list of executive officers of the
Company as of November 15, 2006 is included as an unnumbered Item in Part I of this report in lieu
of being included in the Company s fiscal year 2006 Proxy Statement.

John M. Barth , 60, was elected Chairman in January 2004, Chief Executive Officer in October
2002 and a member of the Board of Directors in November 1997. He previously served as President
from September 1998 to July 2006, Chief Operating Officer from September 1998 to October 2002 and
an Executive Vice President with responsibility for automotive experience from 1992 to September
1998. Mr. Barth joined the Company in 1969.

Stephen A. Roell , 56, was elected Vice Chairman in May 2005 and a member of the Board of
Directors and Executive Vice President in October 2004. He previously served as Chief Financial
Officer between 1991 and May 2005, Senior Vice President from September 1998 to October 2004 and
Vice President from 1991 to September 1998. Mr. Roell joined the Company in 1982.

Keith E. Wandell , 56, was elected President and Chief Operating Officer in July 2006. He
previously served as Executive Vice President from May 2005 to July 2006, Corporate Vice
President from 1997 to May 2005, President of automotive experience from October 2003 to July
2006 and President of battery operations for automotive experience. Mr. Wandell joined the
Company in 1988.

R. Bruce McDonald , 46, was elected Executive Vice President in September 2006 and Chief
Financial Officer in May 2005. He previously served as Corporate Vice President from January 2002
to September 2006, Assistant Chief Financial Officer from January 2002 to May 2005 and as
Corporate Controller from November 2001 to January 2002. Prior to that time, Mr. McDonald was
Vice President of Finance for the automotive business of TRW Inc., a supplier of automotive
systems, modules and components to automotive original equipment manufacturers and related
after-markets worldwide. Mr. McDonald joined the Company in 2001.

C. David Myers , 43, was elected a Corporate Vice President and President of the building
efficiency business in December 2005, when he joined the Company in connection with the
acquisition of York International Corporation. At York, Mr. Myers most recently served as Chief
Executive Officer from February 2004 to December 2005, President from June 2003 to December 2005,
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from January 2003 to June 2003 and Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer from February 2000 to January 2003.

Jeffrey G. Augustin , 44, was elected a Corporate Vice President and Corporate Controller in
March 2005, when he joined the Company. From 2001 to March 2005, Mr. Augustin was Vice President
of Finance and Corporate Controller of Gateway, Inc, a seller of desktop and notebook computers
and servers (PCs), and PC-related products globally.

Beda Bolzenius , 50, was elected a Corporate Vice President in November 2005 and serves as
President of the automotive experience business. He previously served as Executive Vice President
and General Manager Europe, Africa and South America for automotive experience from November 2004
to November 2005. Dr. Bolzenius joined the Company in November 2004 from Robert Bosch GmbH, a
global manufacturer of automotive and industrial technology, consumer goods and building
technology, where he most recently served as the president of the energy and body systems
division.

Susan F. Davis , 53, was elected Executive Vice President of Human Resources in September
2006. She previously served as Vice President of Human Resources from April 1994 to July 2006 and
as Vice President of Organizational Development for automotive experience from August 1993 to
April 1994. Ms. Davis joined the Company in 1983.

15 

Table of Contents   

Jeffrey S. Edwards , 44, was elected a Corporate Vice President in May 2004 and serves as
Group Vice President and General Manager for Japan and Asia Pacific for the automotive experience
business. He previously served as Group Vice President and General Manager for automotive
experience North America from August 2002 to May 2004 and Group Vice President and General
Manager for product and business development. Mr. Edwards joined the Company in 1984.

Giovanni  John  Fiori , 63, was elected an Executive Vice President in August 2002 and serves
as President of Johnson Controls International. He previously served as the President of
automotive operations in Europe, Africa, South America and Asia and Vice President of automotive
seating operations in Europe. Mr. Fiori joined the Company in 1987.

Charles A. Harvey , 54, was elected Corporate Vice President of Diversity and Public Affairs
in November 2005. He previously served as Vice President of human resources for the automotive
experience business and in other human resources leadership positions. Mr. Harvey joined the
company in 1991.

John P. Kennedy , 63, was elected an Executive Vice President in May 2005. He previously
served as President of the building efficiency business from October 2004 to December 2005, was a
Senior Vice President from August 2002 to May 2005, served as Secretary from 1987 to October 2004
and served as General Counsel from 1984 to November 2004. Mr. Kennedy joined the Company in 1984.

Sean D. Major , 42, was elected Assistant Secretary and appointed Assistant General Counsel
in November 2004. He formerly served as group Vice President and General Counsel International.
Mr. Major joined the Company in 1998.

Alex A. Molinaroli , 47, was elected a Corporate Vice President in May 2004 and serves as
Vice President and General Manager for North America Systems   the Middle East for the building
efficiency business. He previously has held increasing levels of responsibility for controls
systems and services sales and operations. Mr. Molinaroli joined the Company in 1983.

Jerome D. Okarma , 54, was elected Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel in November
2004 and was named a Corporate Vice President in September 2003. He previously served as
Assistant Secretary from 1990 to November 2004 and as Deputy General Counsel from June 2000 to
November 2004. Mr. Okarma joined the Company in 1989.

Gregg M. Sherrill, 53 , was elected a Corporate Vice President in May 2004 and serves as
President of the power solutions business. He previously served as Group Vice President and
General Manager of battery operations for the automotive experience business, Group Vice
President and Managing Director, Japan and Asia Pacific and Group Vice President and Managing
Director, Europe, South Africa and South America. Mr. Sherrill joined the Company in 1998.

Michael D. Su , 48, was elected a Corporate Vice President in May 2004 and serves as Vice
President and Managing Director of the Asia Pacific region for the building efficiency business.
He previously served in various building efficiency management positions in Asia and North
America. Mr. Su joined the Company in 1984.

Subhash  Sam  S. Valanju , 63, was elected a Corporate Vice President in 1999 and has served
as Chief Information Officer since joining the Company in 1996.

Frank A. Voltolina , 46, was elected a Corporate Vice President and Corporate Treasurer in
July 2003 when he joined the Company. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Voltolina was Vice
President and Treasurer at ArvinMeritor, Inc., a global supplier of a broad range of integrated
systems, modules and components to the motor vehicle industry.

Denise M. Zutz , 55, was elected Vice President of Strategy, Investor Relations and
Communication in November 2004. She previously served as Vice President, Corporate Communication
from 1991 to November 2004. Ms. Zutz joined the Company in 1973.

16 

Table of Contents   

There are no family relationships, as defined by the instructions to this item, among the Company s
executive officers.

All officers are elected for terms that expire on the date of the meeting of the Board of Directors
following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders or until their successors are elected and qualified.

PART II  

ITEM 5   
       
       MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   

The Company s shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol  JCI. 

On November 19, 2003, the Company s Board of Directors declared a two-for-one stock split of the
common stock payable January 2, 2004 to shareholders of record on December 12, 2003. This stock
split resulted in the issuance of approximately 91 million additional shares of common stock and
was accounted for by the transfer of approximately $7 million from common stock to capital in
excess of par value. All share or per share data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K reflect the
two-for-one stock split.

The Company entered into an Equity Swap Agreement, dated March 18, 2004 and amended March 3, 2006
and May 16, 2006 (Swap Agreement), with Citibank, N.A. (Citibank). The Company selectively uses
equity swaps to reduce market risk associated with its stock-based compensation plans, such as its
deferred compensation plans and stock appreciation rights. These equity compensation liabilities
increase as the Company s stock price increases and decrease as the Company s stock price
decreases. In contrast, the value of the Swap Agreement moves in the opposite direction of these
liabilities, allowing the Company to fix a portion of the liabilities at a stated amount.

Citibank has advised the Company that, in connection with the Swap Agreement, Citibank may purchase
shares of the Company s stock in the market or in privately negotiated transactions up to an amount
equal to $200 million in aggregate market value at any given time. The Company disclaims that
Citibank is an  affiliated purchaser  of the Company as such term is defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3)
under the Securities Exchange Act or that Citibank is purchasing any shares for the Company.
Although the Swap Agreement has a stated expiration date, the Company s intention is to continually
renew the Swap Agreement with Citibank s consent. The net effect of the change in fair value of the
Swap Agreement and the change in equity compensation liabilities was not material to the Company s
earnings for the three months and year ended September 30, 2006. There were no purchases by
Citibank in the three months or year ended September 30, 2006.

17 

Table of Contents   

In September 2006, the Company s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program to
acquire up to $200 million of the Company s outstanding common stock. Stock repurchases under this
program may be made through open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise at times
and in such amounts as Company management deems appropriate. The stock repurchase program does not
have an expiration date and may be limited or terminated by the Board of Directors at any time
without prior notice. There were no repurchases made under the stock repurchase program as of
September 30, 2006.

The Company has filed as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K the CEO and CFO certifications
required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Company also submitted the Annual
CEO certification to the New York Stock Exchange.

The Company s transfer agent s contact information is as follows:

Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, N.A. 
Shareowner Services Department 
P.O. Box 64856 
St. Paul, MN 55164-0856 
(877) 602-7397

ITEM 6     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

The following selected financial data reflects the results of operations, balance sheet data, and
common share information for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2002 through September 30, 2006
(in millions, except per share data, number of employees and shareholders).

18 

Table of Contents   

19 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7   
       
       MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

General 

The Company operates in three primary businesses: building efficiency, automotive experience and
power solutions. Building efficiency provides facility systems and services including comfort,
energy and security management for the residential and non-residential buildings market. Automotive
experience designs and manufactures interior systems and products for passenger cars and light
trucks, including vans, pick-up trucks and sport/crossover utility vehicles. Power solutions
designs and manufactures automotive batteries for the replacement and original equipment markets.

On December 9, 2005, the Company acquired York International Corporation (York), a leading global
provider of heating, ventilating, air conditioning (HVAC) equipment and services. The results of
York s operations are included in the Company s consolidated financial statements from the date of
acquisition. As part of the York integration, the Company reorganized its building efficiency
business to maximize the synergies related to the York and legacy Johnson Controls operations. The
new building efficiency structure is organized by product, service and/or region, with both York
and Johnson Controls operations integrated within these segments as applicable.

In fiscal year 2005, the Company completed six acquisitions, most notably Delphi Corporation s
(Delphi) global battery business, which enabled participation in the rapidly growing Asian
automotive battery market, particularly in China.

In fiscal year 2004, the Company acquired the remaining 51% ownership of a power solutions joint
venture with Grupo IMSA, S.A. de C.V. (Latin American JV) in order to expand its presence in the
Mexican battery market.

This discussion summarizes the significant factors affecting the consolidated operating results,
financial condition and liquidity of the Company for the three-year period ended September 30,
2006. This discussion should be read in conjunction with Item 8, the consolidated financial
statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Executive Overview 

In fiscal year 2006, the Company recorded record net sales and record net income. Net sales were
$32.2 billion, a 17% increase over the prior year, and net income was $1.0 billion, a 13% increase
over the prior year, with such increases primarily from the impact of the York and Delphi battery
business acquisitions. With the successful integration of York into the building efficiency
business, the Company was able to improve its earnings diversification and to further expand
globally. The Company continues to introduce new and enhanced technology applications in all
businesses and markets served, while at the same time improving the quality of its products.

Building efficiency business net sales and operating income increased 79% and 93%, respectively,
over the prior year, primarily due to the York acquisition, global workplace solutions customer
wins and the leveraging of expanded product offerings to customers. Improvements in cost structure
and productivity have resulted in higher operating margins and a platform for future growth.

The automotive experience business was unfavorably impacted by lower North American automobile
production and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation in Europe. Net sales and
operating income decreased 3% and 24%, respectively, from the prior year. The Company expects that
recently announced restructuring programs, program wins in North America, Europe and China,
improvements in the cost structure and investments to strengthen technology will improve future
results.

Net sales and operating income for the power solutions business increased by 27% and 33%,
respectively, over the prior year, primarily due to aftermarket and original equipment market share
growth in North America, strong aftermarket demand in Europe and increased market share in Asia.
With recent acquisitions, the power solutions business continues to expand its global reach and is
building leadership in the emerging hybrid battery market.

20 

Table of Contents   

In connection with the York acquisition, the Company issued $2.5 billion in floating and fixed rate
notes to repay unsecured commercial paper obligations and entered into a three-year, 24 billion yen
loan. Since December 2005, the Company has repaid approximately $800 million of debt to reduce its
total debt to capitalization ratio from 46% at December 31, 2005 to 39% at September 30, 2006. The
Company expects continued reduction of this ratio in fiscal year 2007.

In fiscal year 2007, the Company anticipates that net sales will grow to approximately $34 billion,
an increase of 6% from the prior year, which includes 25% growth in the building efficiency
business, 5% growth in the power solutions business and an approximate 3% to 5% decrease in the
automotive experience business. The Company anticipates that diluted earnings per share from
continuing operations to be approximately $6.00, a 14% increase over fiscal year 2006.

Segment Analysis 

Management evaluates the performance of the segments based primarily on operating income, excluding
restructuring costs and other significant non-recurring gains and losses. Operating revenues and
expenses are allocated to business segments in determining segment operating income. Items excluded
from the determination of segment operating income include interest income and expense, equity in
earnings of partially-owned affiliates, gains and losses from sales of businesses, foreign currency
gains and losses, and other miscellaneous income and expense.

In the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, in connection with the York acquisition, the Company
reevaluated its operating and reportable segments in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information.  The Company determined that it had ten reportable segments for financial reporting
purposes. Certain operating segments are aggregated within the building efficiency   rest of world
and power solutions reportable segments. The following is a description of each building efficiency
reportable segment.

North America systems designs, produces, markets and installs mechanical equipment that
provides heating and cooling in North American non-residential buildings and industrial
applications as well as control systems that integrate the operation of this equipment
with other critical building systems. 

North America service provides technical services including inspection, scheduled
maintenance, repair and replacement of mechanical and control systems in North America, as
well as the retrofit and service components of performance contracts and other solutions. 

North America unitary products designs and produces heating and air conditioning
solutions for residential and light commercial applications and markets products to the
replacement and new construction markets. 

Workplace solutions provides on-site staff for complete real estate services, facility
operation and management to improve the comfort, productivity, energy efficiency and cost
effectiveness of building systems around the globe. 

Europe provides HVAC and refrigeration systems and technical services to the European
marketplace. 

Rest of world provides HVAC and refrigeration systems and technical services to markets
in Asia, the Middle East and Latin America. 

FISCAL YEAR 2006 COMPARED TO FISCAL YEAR 2005 

Summary 

21 

Table of Contents   

The increase in net sales was primarily due to the impact of the York and Delphi
acquisitions and organic growth in the power solutions segment, partially offset by lower
North American automobile production and unfavorable foreign currency translation
(approximately $500 million). 

Excluding the unfavorable effects of foreign currency translation, consolidated net
sales increased 19% as compared to the prior year. 

The increase in operating income was primarily due to the impact of the York and Delphi
acquisitions and organic growth in the power solutions segment, partially offset by
increased raw material costs, including lead and petroleum-based products, lower North
American automobile production and unfavorable foreign currency translation (approximately
$25 million). Operating income was also favorably impacted on a net basis in fiscal year
2006 by legal and customer contract settlements which were partially offset by York
integration costs. 

Excluding the unfavorable effects of foreign currency translation, operating income
increased 23% as compared to the prior year. 

Building Efficiency 

* 
       
     Measure not meaningful as segment relates to December 2005 York acquisition 

Net Sales: 

The increase in net sales for North America systems, North America service, North
America unitary products, Europe and rest of world was primarily due to the impact of the
York acquisition. 

The Company did not operate in the North American unitary products markets prior to the
York acquisition. 

The increase in net sales for workplace solutions primarily reflects new and expanded
contracts in North America and Europe, including Royal Dutch Shell plc, British
Broadcasting Corporation, DHL International GmbH, Eastman Kodak Company, T-Mobile, and
Intel Corporation. 

Operating Income: 

Excluding restructuring costs, the increase in total building efficiency operating
income was primarily due to the impact of the York acquisition. 

Restructuring costs by building efficiency reporting segment for the years ended
September 30, 2006 and 2005 are as follows: North America systems ($0 and $3 million);
North America service ($1 million and $0 million); workplace solutions ($7 million and $13
million); Europe ($40 million and $8 million); and rest of world ($17 million and $27
million). Please see the restructuring costs section below for further details. 

Similarly, the increase in operating income for North America service, North America
unitary products and rest of world was primarily due to the impact of the York acquisition. 

22 

Table of Contents   

The increase in operating income for North America systems was primarily due to an increase
in gross profit percentage resulting from operational efficiencies associated with the
Company s branch office redesign initiative and a favorable legal settlement associated with
the recovery of previously incurred environmental costs ($7 million). The benefit from the
legal settlement was substantially offset by other unfavorable commercial and legal
settlements. 

Automotive Experience 

Net Sales: 

North American net sales decreased slightly as higher volumes with DaimlerChrysler AG
and Hyundai Motor Co. were more than offset by volume reductions with Ford Motor Co.,
General Motors Corporation and Nissan Motor Co. and an unfavorable mix of production from
light trucks to passenger cars. 

European net sales declined slightly as higher volumes across all major customer
platforms were more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation
(approximately $300 million). 

Asian net sales increased primarily due to higher volumes with Honda Motor Co. in Japan,
partially offset by volume reductions with Nissan Motor Co. in Japan, seating and interiors
businesses in Korea and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation
(approximately $30 million). 

Operating Income: 

North America  

Operating income (excluding $75 million of restructuring costs) decreased 59% from the
prior year (excluding $12 million of restructuring costs). 

Unfavorable vehicle volume and sales mix decreased operating income by $139 million as
compared to the prior year. 

Cost reduction programs, purchasing savings and other operational efficiencies
contributed approximately $253 million in operating improvements. 

Operations were unfavorably impacted by customer vehicle program adjustments ($133
million), tooling and launch costs ($68 million), higher labor costs ($48 million) and fuel
cost increases ($47 million). 

Selling, General and Administrative (SG A) expenses increased primarily due to the
timing of customer engineering recoveries ($18 million), employee benefit related expenses
($12 million) and plant closure costs related to a customer closure of an assembly plant to
which the Company supplied interior products ($8 million), partially offset by
administrative efficiencies and cost reduction programs. 

Europe  

Operating income (excluding $53 million of restructuring costs) increased 52% from the
prior year (excluding $130 million of restructuring costs). 

23 

Table of Contents   

Cost reduction programs, purchasing savings and other operational efficiencies contributed
approximately $134 million in savings as compared to the prior period. 

SG A expenses increased $21 million, primarily due to information technology
infrastructure expenses ($16 million) and net engineering expenses ($5 million). 

Asia  

Asia reported an operating loss in fiscal year 2006, primarily due to lower volumes and
product mix, start-up and engineering costs associated with new programs within Japan,
Korea and Malaysia and unfavorable material costs. 

Restructuring costs were $1 million in fiscal year 2006 compared to none in fiscal year
2005. 

Power Solutions 

The increase in net sales was due to substantially higher unit shipments, primarily from
the Delphi battery business acquisition, and the favorable impact of higher lead costs on
pricing, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation
(approximately $40 million). Unit sales increased 22% in North America from new account
growth in the aftermarket and increased sales to General Motors Corporation related to the
Delphi battery business acquisition, 17% in Europe from strong aftermarket demand and 114%
in Asia from increased market share. 

The increase in operating income was primarily due to the higher sales volumes and a
favorable legal settlement associated with the recovery of previously incurred
environmental costs ($33 million), partially offset by unfavorable commodity costs,
primarily lead ($72 million). 

Restructuring Costs 

As part of its continuing efforts to reduce costs and improve the efficiency of its global
operations, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (2006 Plan) in the third quarter of
fiscal year 2006 and recorded a $197 million restructuring charge. The 2006 Plan, which primarily
includes workforce reductions and plant consolidations in the automotive experience and building
efficiency businesses, is expected to be substantially completed by the end of the third quarter
of fiscal year 2007. The automotive experience business related restructuring is focused on
improving the profitability associated with the manufacturing and supply of instrument panels,
headliners and other interior components in North America and increasing the efficiency of seating
component operations in Europe. The charges associated with the building efficiency business
mostly relate to Europe where the Company has launched a systems redesign initiative. During the
fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, automotive experience   North America recorded an additional
$8 million for employee severance and termination benefits. The Company expects to incur other
related and ancillary costs associated with some of these restructuring activities in future
periods. These costs are not expected to be material and will be expensed as incurred.

The 2006 Plan includes workforce reductions of approximately 4,700 employees (2,200 for automotive
experience   North America, 1,400 for automotive experience   Europe, 200 for building efficiency
- - North America, 600 for building efficiency   Europe, 280 for building efficiency   rest of world
and 20 for power solutions). Restructuring charges associated with employee severance and
termination benefits will be paid over the severance period granted to each employee and on a lump
sum basis when required in accordance with individual severance agreements. As of September 30,
2006, approximately 350 employees have been separated from the Company. In addition, the 2006 Plan

24 

Table of Contents   

includes 15 plant closures (10 in automotive experience   North America, 3 in automotive
experience   Europe, 1 in building efficiency   Europe and 1 in building efficiency   rest of
world). The restructuring charge for the impairment of the long-lived assets associated with the
plant closures was determined using an undiscounted cash flow analysis.

The Company recorded the restructuring charge as a result of management s ongoing review of the
Company s cost structure, the sharp increase in commodity costs, and the current economic
difficulties facing some of its most significant customers. Company management is continually
analyzing its businesses for opportunities to consolidate current operations and to locate its
facilities in low cost countries in close proximity to its customers. This ongoing analysis
includes the review of its manufacturing, engineering and purchasing operations as well as its
overall Company footprint.

Other Income/Expense 

Net interest expense increased primarily due to the financing associated with the York
acquisition, partially offset by debt reduction from operating cash flows. 

Equity income increased primarily due to joint ventures included in the Delphi
acquisition, higher income from automotive experience joint ventures in China and certain
power solutions joint ventures. 

Miscellaneous expense   net decreased primarily due to a $9 million gain from the sale
of the Company s interest in an automotive experience joint venture and non-recurring
losses on the sale of assets in the prior year ($5 million). 

Provision for Income Taxes 

The Company s base effective income tax rate for continuing operations for fiscal year 2006
declined to 21.0% from 25.7% in fiscal year 2005, primarily due to continuing global tax planning
initiatives, increased income in certain foreign jurisdictions with a rate of tax lower than the
U.S. statutory tax rate and decreased income in higher tax jurisdictions. The Company s effective
tax rate for fiscal year 2006 was further reduced as a result of a reversal of valuation
allowances at Mexican and German subsidiaries of $32 million and $131 million, respectively, a $19
million discrete period tax benefit related to the third quarter 2006 restructuring charge using a
blended statutory tax rate of 30.6%, a $10 million tax benefit related to a favorable tax audit
resolution in a foreign country, an $11 million tax benefit related to a change in tax status for
subsidiaries in Hungary and the Netherlands and a $4 million tax benefit related to the
disposition of an interest in a German joint venture, partially offset by $31 million of tax
expense related to the repatriation of foreign earnings.

Valuation Allowance Adjustments  

Based on the Company s cumulative operating results through the six months ended March 31, 2006
and an assessment of expected future profitability in Mexico, the Company concluded that it was
more likely than not that the tax benefits of its operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in
Mexico would be utilized in the future. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company
completed a tax reorganization in Mexico which will allow operating loss and tax credit
carryforwards to be offset against the future taxable income of the reorganized entities. As such,
in the second quarter of fiscal year 2006 the Company reversed a valuation allowance of $32
million attributable to these operating loss and tax credit carryforwards as a credit to income
tax expense.

In the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company completed an analysis of its German
operations and, based on cumulative income over a 36-month period, an assessment of expected
future profitability in Germany and finalization of the 2006 Plan, determined that it was more
likely than not that the tax benefits of certain operating loss and tax credit

25 

Table of Contents   

carryforwards in Germany would be utilized in the future. As such, the Company reversed $131
million attributable to these operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in the third quarter as
a credit to income tax expense, net of remaining valuation allowances at certain German
subsidiaries and tax reserve requirements.

Uncertain Tax Positions  

The Company s effective tax rate was reduced in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006 by a $10
million tax benefit related to a favorable tax audit resolution in a foreign jurisdiction.

The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant
judgment is required in determining its worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the
related assets and liabilities. In the ordinary course of the Company s business, there are many
transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Company is
regularly under audit by tax authorities. Accruals for tax contingencies are provided for in
accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 5  Accounting for Contingencies.  The Company s
federal income tax returns and certain foreign income tax returns for fiscal years 1997 through
2003 are currently under various stages of audit by the Internal Revenue Service and respective
foreign tax authorities. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, management
believes that it has appropriate support for the positions taken on its tax returns and that its
annual tax provisions included amounts sufficient to pay assessments, if any, which may be
proposed by the taxing authorities. At September 30, 2006, the Company has recorded a liability
for its best estimate of the probable loss on certain of its tax positions, the majority of which
is included in other noncurrent liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Nonetheless, the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the
taxing authorities may differ.

Foreign Dividend Repatriation  

In October 2004, the President signed the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA). The AJCA
created a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad
by providing an 85% dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign
operations. The deduction is subject to a number of limitations. During the quarter ended March
31, 2006, the Company completed its evaluation of its repatriation plans and $674 million of
foreign earnings were repatriated to the U.S. pursuant to the provisions of the AJCA. The increase
in income tax liability related to the Company s AJCA initiatives totaled $42 million. The Company
recorded $31 million of net income tax expense in the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, as $11
million had been previously recorded by York prior to it becoming a subsidiary of the Company in
accordance with York s approved repatriation plan.

Other Discrete Period Items  

The Company s effective tax rate was also reduced in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 by $11
million due to a change in tax status for subsidiaries in Hungary and the Netherlands. The change
in tax status resulted from a voluntary tax election that produced a deemed liquidation for U.S.
federal income tax purposes. The Company received a tax benefit in the U.S. for the loss from the
decrease in value from the original tax basis of these investments. This election changed the tax
status of the respective subsidiaries from controlled foreign corporations (i.e., taxable
entities) to branches (i.e., flow through entities similar to a partnership) for U.S. federal
income tax purposes and is thereby reported as a discrete period tax benefit in accordance with
the provisions of SFAS No. 109.

The Company s effective tax rate was also reduced in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 by a $4
million tax benefit related to a $9 million gain resulting from the disposition of the Company s
interest in a German joint venture.

Discontinued Operations  

The Company utilized an effective tax rate for discontinued operations of approximately 38%, 39%
and 35% for Bristol Compressors, Johnson Controls World Services, Inc. and its engine electronic
business, respectively. These effective tax rates approximate the local statutory rate adjusted
for permanent differences.

26 

Table of Contents   

Minority Interests in Net Earnings of Subsidiaries 

Minority interests in net earnings of subsidiaries were $42 million compared with $41 million in
the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of a minority interest in York s China operations
in December 2005 and higher earnings at certain European and Asian automotive experience joint
ventures, partially offset by lower earnings at certain automotive experience and building
efficiency subsidiaries in North America.

Net Income 

Net income for fiscal year 2006 was $1.0 billion, 13% above the prior year s $909 million,
primarily due to the impact from the York and Delphi acquisitions and a reduced effective income
tax rate on continuing operations, partially offset by lower North America automobile sales and
increased interest expense resulting from financing associated with the York acquisition. Fiscal
year 2006 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was $5.25, a 35% increase from the
prior year s $3.90.

FISCAL YEAR 2005 COMPARED TO FISCAL YEAR 2004 

Building Efficiency 

Net Sales: 

Excluding the favorable impact of foreign currency translation (approximately $125
million), building efficiency net sales increased 5%, primarily due to growth in North
America service markets. 

North America systems showed slight growth in both the existing buildings and new
construction market. 

North America service sales increased primarily due to the incremental effect of fiscal
year 2005 acquisitions and higher technical services revenues. 

Europe net sales increased primarily due to the positive effects of currency translation. 

Rest of world net sales increased primarily due to new construction market growth in Japan. 

Operating Income: 

Excluding restructuring costs, operating income increased 22%, primarily due to sales
growth and higher gross profit in North America, partially offset by higher SG A expenses
in all reporting segments. 

North America system and North America service gross margins benefited from improved
operational efficiencies associated with the Company s branch office redesign initiative,
partially offset by higher SG A expenses in North America from fiscal year 2005
acquisitions ($32 million). 

Workplace solutions operating income increased primarily due to higher sales volume in
Europe. 

27 

Table of Contents   

Automotive Experience 

Net Sales: 

North America net sales increased slightly, primarily due to new business awards and a
favorable mix of vehicle platforms compared to an estimated 2% decrease in the domestic
vehicle production. 

Excluding the favorable impact of currency translation (approximately $400 million),
Europe net sales increased 11%, primarily due to new contract awards in seating and
interior systems, growth in electronics revenue and a slightly positive mix relative to the
estimated slight decline in industry production in Europe. 

Excluding the favorable impact of currency translation (approximately $50 million), Asia
net sales increased 24%, primarily due to the introduction of significant new models in
Japan by original equipment manufacturers and strong sales in our seating business in
Korea. 

Operating Income: 

North America  

Operating income (excluding $12 million of restructuring costs) decreased 31% (excluding
$5 million of restructuring costs), primarily due to selling price reductions and material
cost increases in excess of cost savings, partially offset by lower SG A expenses. 

Lower sales mix of mature vehicle programs and sales price reductions under long term
agreements with the Company s customers exceeded cost reductions and operational
efficiencies by $71 million for the year. The lower sales mix of mature vehicle programs
negatively impacted results as these sales typically deliver more favorable margins due to
operational efficiencies and cost reductions that are implemented throughout the vehicle
life cycle. In contrast, new vehicle programs require significant engineering and start up
costs thereby reducing margins at the onset of the program. Annual price reduction renewal
negotiations during the period yielded terms consistent with prior agreements. It should be
noted that price reduction commitments are often made in the context of broader customer
negotiations on several factors, including volume, potential new business opportunities and
geographic expansion. 

Commodity costs, primarily steel, resin and chemicals, increased by approximately $132
million, net of recoveries, compared to the prior year. The Company addresses fluctuations
in commodity costs through negotiations with both its customers and suppliers. In order to
address future fluctuations, the Company continues to modify the duration and terms of its
direct material buy contracts. 

SG A expenses decreased $49 million, primarily due to lower net engineering expenses
compared to the prior year which included increased engineering expenses incurred for new
vehicle programs. 

Europe  

Excluding the favorable impact of foreign currency (approximately $15 million),
operating income (excluding $130 million of restructuring costs) increased $125 million
(excluding $51 million of restructuring costs), 

28 

Table of Contents   

primarily due to increased volumes of higher margin interior systems, lower launch costs and
operational improvements, partially offset by commodity cost increases and higher SG A
expenses. 

Implemented cost reductions, operational efficiencies and the higher sales mix of mature
vehicle programs exceeded incremental sales price reductions by approximately $202 million
for the year. The segment benefited from implemented cost reductions resulting from the
2005 restructuring plan and continued to benefit from the 2003 turnaround program which
concentrated on the implementation of best business practices and six sigma activities on
its existing operations. Annual sales price reduction renewal negotiations during the
period yielded terms consistent with prior agreements. 

The incremental effect of commodity costs totaled approximately $53 million. The
increases were less than those incurred in North America due to the timing of contract
renewals and variations in certain terms of the agreements. 

SG A expenses increased approximately $24 million primarily due to higher program
management costs from purchasing and information technology activities, partially offset by
lower net engineering expenses. 

Asia  

Operating income decreased primarily due to start-up and engineering costs associated
with new program wins in Japan. The net effect of foreign currency translation was neutral
to the segment s operating income. 

Power Solutions 

Excluding the favorable effects of currency translation (approximately $45 million), net
sales increased 27%, primarily due to growth in North America and Europe. 

North American sales of automotive batteries increased 35% primarily due to the
acquisition of the remaining 51% interest in the Latin American JV in the fourth quarter of
fiscal year 2004, which added $258 million of sales. Sales were also favorably impacted by
the pass-through pricing of higher lead costs and higher shipments to existing customers. 

European sales of automotive batteries increased 15% primarily due to higher shipments
to existing customers, the favorable impact of currency translation, and the pass-through
pricing of higher lead costs to customers. 

Excluding restructuring costs, operating income increased $112 million, primarily due to
higher sales volumes in both the Americas and Europe and the acquisition of the remaining
interest in the Latin American JV ($24 million). The power solutions business also
benefited from a favorable product mix in North America and operational improvements in
Europe. The increases were partially offset by the incremental effect of commodity costs,
which negatively impacted global operating income by approximately $8 million net of the
benefit from the implementation of lead hedges and improved pass through of lead costs. 

Restructuring Costs 

In the second quarter of fiscal year 2005, the Company executed a restructuring plan (2005 Plan)
involving cost reduction actions and recorded a $210 million restructuring charge. These
restructuring charges include workforce reductions of approximately 3,100 employees within
automotive experience and power solutions and 800 employees in the building efficiency business.
The charges associated with employee severance and termination benefits are paid over the severance
period granted to each employee and on a lump sum basis when required in accordance with individual
severance agreements. As of September 30, 2006, approximately 2,900 employees have separated from
the Company

29 

Table of Contents   

pursuant to the 2005 Plan. In addition, the 2005 Plan includes eight plant closures within
automotive experience and power solutions and four plant closures within building efficiency. The
write-downs of the long-lived assets associated with the plant closures were determined using an
undiscounted cash flow analysis. The automotive experience and power solutions actions are
primarily concentrated in Europe, while the building efficiency restructuring actions involve
activities in both North America and Europe. The Company expects to incur other related and
ancillary costs associated with some of these restructuring initiatives. These costs are not
expected to be material and will be expensed as incurred. The majority of the restructuring
activities are expected to be completed by December 2006.

Other Income/Expense 

Interest expense   net increased, primarily due to higher interest rates. 

Equity income decreased, primarily due to lower earnings at certain automotive
experience joint ventures in China and Europe. 

Miscellaneous expense   net decreased as the prior year included foreign currency losses
of approximately $16 million (compared to a slight gain in the fiscal year 2005),
approximately $6 million of expense in fiscal year 2004 associated with the early
redemption of outstanding bonds and higher non-recurring litigation expenses in fiscal year
2004. 

Provision for Income Taxes 

The Company s base effective income tax rate for continuing operations for fiscal year 2005
declined to 25.7% from 26.0% for the prior year primarily due to continuing global tax planning
initiatives. The Company s base effective tax rate is calculated by adjusting the effective tax
rate for significant one time tax items. For the year ended September 30, 2005, the effective rate
was impacted by a $12 million and $69 million tax benefit in the first and second quarters,
respectively, due to a change in tax status of a French and a German subsidiary. The change in tax
status resulted from a voluntary tax election that produced a deemed liquidation of the French and
German subsidiaries for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Company received a tax benefit in the
U.S. for the loss from the decrease in value from the original tax basis of these investments. This
election changed the tax status of the French and German entities from controlled foreign
corporations (i.e., taxable entities) to branches (i.e., flow through entities similar to a
partnership) for U.S. federal income tax purposes and is thereby reported as a discrete period tax
benefit in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  The
voluntary tax election related to the German subsidiary resulted in a capital loss for tax purposes
of $539 million, $187 million of which was utilized in the second quarter. The tax benefit on the
remaining capital loss has not been recorded as the remaining capital loss can only be used to the
extent of future capital gains resulting from non-recurring transactions in the U.S., none of which
are contemplated at this time; there are no prudent or feasible tax planning strategies in place at
this time to utilize such capital losses; the capital loss carryforward period for U.S. federal
income tax purposes is 5 years thereby limiting the time period in which the Company could utilize
the U.S. capital losses; and certain assumptions and estimates in determining the amount of capital
loss were used that may change the ultimate capital loss to be realized. These tax benefits were
partially offset by an increase in the tax valuation allowance of $28 million in the second quarter
related to restructuring charges for which no tax benefits were recorded in certain countries given
the uncertainty of its realization due to restrictive tax loss rules or a lack of sustained
profitability in that country. In addition, other valuation allowance adjustments during the year
related primarily to continuing losses at certain foreign subsidiaries for which no tax benefit was
recognized were offset by the utilization of losses in certain foreign subsidiaries for which
sustained profitability has not yet been demonstrated, thereby resulting in no significant change
in the Company s total valuation allowance during the year. The fiscal year ended September 30,
2004 benefited from a $27 million favorable tax settlement related to prior periods.

30 

Table of Contents   

The annual effective tax rate for income from discontinued operations approximated 39% and 35% for
Johnson Controls World Services, Inc. and the engine electronics business, respectively. These
effective tax rates approximate the local statutory rate adjusted for permanent differences. The
Company s income taxes for the gain on the sale of discontinued operations resulted in an effective
tax rate of 38.1%.

Minority Interests in Net Earnings of Subsidiaries 

Minority interests in net earnings of subsidiaries were $41 million compared with $52 million in
the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to lower earnings at certain automotive experience
subsidiaries in North America, partially offset by higher earnings at certain Asian joint ventures.

Net Income 

Net income for fiscal year 2005 reached $909 million, 11% above the prior year s $818 million,
primarily due to increased gross profit from increased revenues ($204 million), the gain on the
sale of discontinued operations ($136 million), and a reduced effective income tax rate on
continuing operations, partially offset by higher restructuring costs ($128 million) and a
non-recurring pension gain in the prior year ($84 million). Fiscal year 2005 diluted earnings per
share were $4.68, 10% above the prior year s $4.24.

Fiscal Year 2007 Outlook 

Net Sales  

In fiscal year 2007, the Company anticipates that net sales will grow to approximately $34 billion,
an increase of 6% from prior year net sales. The increase assumes a euro to U.S. dollar exchange
rate of $1.25, which is slightly higher than the average exchange rate of $1.23 in fiscal year
2006.

The Company expects building efficiency net sales to increase approximately 25% from the prior
year, primarily due to the full year impact of the York acquisition, service growth, enhanced
global capabilities, expansion into emerging markets and realization of acquisition synergies from
joint-selling and cross-selling a full range of product and service offerings.

Building efficiency s backlog relates to its control systems and service activity. At September 30,
2006, the unearned backlog was $3.7 billion, compared to $1.9 billion at September 30, 2005,
primarily due to the York acquisition.

The Company expects automotive experience net sales to decrease approximately 3% to 5% from the
prior year, primarily reflecting lower revenue in North America. Lower industry production volume,
unfavorable vehicle mix between light trucks and passenger cars and vehicle program rationalization
are the key factors contributing to the decrease.

At September 30, 2006, automotive experience had an incremental backlog of net new incremental
business to be executed within the next three fiscal years of $3.5 billion, $1.0 billion of which
relates to fiscal year 2007. The backlog is generally subject to a number of risks and
uncertainties, such as related vehicle production volumes and the timing of production launches.

The Company expects power solutions net sales to increase approximately 5% from the prior year,
primarily due to growth in the aftermarket and the pass-through of higher lead prices.

Operating Margin  

The Company anticipates that the overall operating margin percentage in fiscal year 2007 will
increase from fiscal year 2006, excluding restructuring costs. The margin improvement reflects the
growth and synergy realization in the building efficiency business.

Except for volatility in lead prices, the Company expects other key commodity costs, such as
copper, steel, foam chemicals, resin and fuel to be stable in fiscal year 2007, with the
possibility of some softening during the year.

31 

Table of Contents   

The Company expects building efficiency operating margin percentage for fiscal year 2007 to improve
as compared to the prior year, primarily due to the realization of York integration cost synergies
and restructuring benefits, non-recurring acquisition accounting expenses taken in fiscal year 2006
and market growth initiatives in all operating segments.

The Company expects power solutions operating margin percentage to be level with the prior year,
primarily due to continued operational efficiency improvements and benefits from the Delphi battery
integration offset by advanced technology spending and a favorable environmental litigation
settlement in the prior year.

The Company expects automotive experience operating margin percentage for fiscal year 2007 to
decrease slightly compared to the prior year, primarily due to lower production volumes, vehicle
program rationalization, unfavorable product mix in North America and higher engineering and launch
costs, partially offset by continued strong performance in Europe. Automotive experience has supply
agreements with certain of its customers that provide for annual sales price reductions and, in
some instances, for the recovery of material cost increases. The business expects to continue its
historical trend of being able to significantly offset any sales price changes with cost reductions
from design changes and productivity improvements and through similar programs with its own
suppliers.

Other  

The Company expects the base effective income tax rate for fiscal year 2007 to be 23.0%, compared
to 21.0% in fiscal year 2006, primarily due to expected income mix changes between entities with
higher tax rates and entities with lower tax rates.

GOODWILL AND OTHER INVESTMENTS 

Goodwill at September 30, 2006 was $5.9 billion, $2.2 billion higher than the prior year. The
increase was primarily associated with the acquisition York (see Notes 2 and 6 to the consolidated
financial statements).

Investments in partially-owned affiliates at September 30, 2006 were $463 million, $18 million more
than the prior year. The increase was primarily due to equity income exceeding dividends in
building efficiency and automotive experience investments and new building efficiency investments
from the acquisition of York, offset by the sale of an automotive experience investment.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Working Capital 

32 

Table of Contents   

The increase in working capital, which excludes the net assets of discontinued operations of
$45 million at September 30, 2006, is primarily due to the York acquisition and the overall
sales and manufacturing growth experienced in fiscal year 2006. Acquired York-related
accounts receivable, inventories and other current assets were significantly higher than
acquired current liabilities. 

Days sales in accounts receivable for the year ended September 30, 2006, increased to 57
from 54 in the prior year, primarily due to the impact from the York acquisition. There has
been no significant deterioration in the credit quality of the Company s receivables or
material changes in revenue recognition methods. 

Inventory turnover for the year ended September 30, 2006, decreased to 11 from 18 the
prior year, primarily due to the York acquisition. York product inventories turn less
frequently than the Company s other businesses where just-in-time production methods are
generally used. 

Cash Flow 

The increase in cash provided by operating activities primarily reflects increased net
income ($119 million), gain from the sale of discontinued operations ($136 million) and
pension contributions in excess of expense ($138 million) in the prior year, and favorable
working capital changes in receivables and other current assets, partially offset by
changes in deferred income taxes ($379 million) and unfavorable working capital changes in
accounts payable and accrued liabilities. 

The increase in cash used in investing activities primarily relates to the York
acquisition ($2.5 billion) in the current fiscal year and cash provided by business
divestitures ($679 million) in the prior year. 

Cash provided by financing activities in fiscal year 2006 is primarily related to the
York acquisition financing. 

Consistent with the prior year, the majority of the fiscal year 2006 capital
expenditures were associated with the automotive experience business and are related to
investments in launches of new business and cost reduction projects. Management expects
fiscal year 2007 capital expenditures to increase slightly with a reinvestment ratio, which
is calculated as capital expenditures divided by depreciation expense, of 1.2 to 1,
reflecting expected investments in power solutions global capacity expansion and
automation. 

A significant portion of the Company s sales are to customers in the automotive industry
(See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for disclosure of major customers).
Future adverse developments in the automotive industry could impact the Company s liquidity
position and/or require additional restructuring of the Company s operations. 

Long-Lived Assets 

The Company has certain subsidiaries, mainly located in Germany Italy, the Netherlands and the
U.S., which have generated operating and capital losses and, in certain circumstances, have limited
loss carryforward periods. As a result, the Company has recorded valuation allowances against tax
assets for certain of these subsidiaries in accordance with SFAS No. 109. SFAS No. 109 requires the
Company to record a valuation allowance for each legal entity or consolidated group based on the
tax rules in the applicable jurisdiction and evaluate both positive and negative historical
evidences as well as expected future events.

The Company reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. The Company s long-lived asset impairment
analyses indicate that assets are not impaired based on SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  SFAS No. 144 requires the Company to group assets and
liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely

33 

Table of Contents   

independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities and evaluate the asset group against
the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows. At September 30, 2006, the Company does not have any
material assets whose recovery is at risk.

Capitalization 

In August 2006, the Company issued commercial paper to repay the $200 million York note
that matured. 

In February 2006, the Company executed additional euro cross currency swaps to hedge its
net investment position in foreign operations. Any fluctuation in exchange rates related to
hedging transactions is offset by the change in value of the underlying investment. 

In January 2006, the Company issued $2.5 billion in floating and fixed rate notes
consisting of the following four series: $500 million floating rate notes due in fiscal
year 2008, $800 million fixed rate notes due in fiscal year 2011, $800 million fixed rate
notes due in fiscal year 2016 and $400 million fixed rate notes due in fiscal year 2036.
The Company also entered into a 24 billion yen (approximately $206 million), three year,
floating rate loan. The net proceeds of the note offering and the bank loan were used to
repay the unsecured commercial paper obligations that were used to initially finance the
York acquisition. 

In October 2005, the Company entered into a five-year, $1.6 billion revolving credit
facility which expires in October 2010. This facility replaced the five-year $625 million
revolving credit facility, which would have expired in October 2008, and the 364-day $625
million facility, which expired in October 2005. There were no draws on any of the
committed credit lines through September 30, 2006. The revolving credit facility was
amended and restated effective December 5, 2006 (see Item 9B  Other Information  in this
report for further information). 

In October 2005, the Company entered into a $2.8 billion revolving credit facility. The
Company used the revolving credit facility to provide a liquidity backstop for commercial
paper that the Company issued to fund the acquisition of York. Subsequent to the repayment
of the commercial paper in January 2006, the Company terminated the revolving credit
facility. 

The Company also selectively makes use of short-term money market loans. The Company
estimates that it could borrow $200 million to $400 million at its current debt ratings in
money market loans. 

The Company is in compliance with all covenants and other requirements set forth in its
credit agreements and indentures. None of the Company s debt agreements require accelerated
repayment in the event of a decrease in credit ratings. Currently, the Company believes it
has ample liquidity and full access to the capital markets. The Company believes its
capital resources and liquidity position at September 30, 2006 were adequate to meet
projected needs. The Company believes requirements for working capital, capital
expenditures, dividends, debt maturities and any potential acquisitions in fiscal year 2007
will continue to be funded from operations, supplemented by short- and long-term
borrowings, if required. 

34 

Table of Contents   

A summary of the Company s significant contractual obligations as of September 30, 2006 is as
follows:

* 
       
     See  Capitalization  for additional information related to the Company s long-term debt. 

Unconditional purchase obligations include amounts committed under legally enforceable
contracts or purchase orders for goods and services with defined terms as to price, quantity, and
delivery. Pension and postretirement contributions include amounts expected to be paid by the
Company to the plans. Other noncurrent liabilities primarily consist of pension and postretirement
obligations included in the table and other amounts whose settlement dates cannot be reasonably
determined.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES 

The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). This requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. Actual results
could differ from those estimates. The following policies are considered by management to be the
most critical in understanding the judgments that are involved in the preparation of the Company s
consolidated financial statements and the uncertainties that could impact the Company s results of
operations, financial position and cash flows.

Revenue Recognition 

The Company recognizes revenue from long-term systems installation contracts of the building
efficiency business over the contractual period under the percentage-of-completion (POC) method of
accounting. Under this method, sales and gross profit are recognized as work is performed based on
the relationship between actual costs incurred and total estimated costs at the completion of the
contract. Recognized revenues that will not be billed under the terms of the contract until a later
date are recorded in accounts receivable. Likewise, contracts where billings to date have exceeded
recognized revenues are recorded in other current liabilities. Changes to the original estimates
may be required during the life of the contract and such estimates are reviewed monthly. Sales and
gross profit are adjusted prospectively for revisions in estimated total contract costs and
contract values. Estimated losses are recorded when identified. Claims against customers are
recognized as revenue upon settlement. The use of the POC method of accounting involves
considerable use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning the
amounts to accounting periods. The reviews have not resulted in adjustments that were significant
to the Company s results of operations. The Company continually evaluates all of the issues related
to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the POC method of
accounting.

The building efficiency business enters into extended warranties and long-term service and
maintenance agreements with certain customers. For these arrangements, revenue is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the respective contract term.

35 

Table of Contents   

The Company s building efficiency business also sells certain HVAC products and services in bundled
arrangements, where multiple products and/or services are involved. In accordance with Emerging
Issues Task Force Issue No. 00-21,  Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables,  the Company
divides bundled arrangements into separate deliverables and revenue is allocated to each
deliverable based on the relative fair value of all elements or the fair value of undelivered
elements.

In all other cases, the Company recognizes revenue at the time products are shipped and title
passes to the customer or as services are performed.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 

In conformity with U.S. GAAP, goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. The Company performs
impairment reviews for its reporting units, which have been determined to be the Company s
reportable segments, using a fair-value method based on management s judgments and assumptions. The
fair value represents the amount at which a reporting unit could be bought or sold in a current
transaction between willing parties on an arms-length basis. In estimating the fair value, the
Company uses multiples of earnings based on the average of historical, published multiples of
earnings of comparable entities with similar operations and economic characteristics. The estimated
fair value is then compared with the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including recorded
goodwill. The Company is subject to financial statement risk to the extent that the carrying amount
exceeds the estimated fair value. The impairment testing performed by the Company at September 30,
2006, indicated that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its corresponding
carrying amount, including recorded goodwill and, as such, no impairment existed at that time.
Other intangible assets with definite lives continue to be amortized over their estimated useful
lives and are subject to impairment testing if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
asset might be impaired. Indefinite lived intangible assets are also subject to impairment testing
on at least an annual basis. A considerable amount of management judgment and assumptions are
required in performing the impairment tests, principally in determining the fair value of each
reporting unit. While the Company believes its judgments and assumptions were reasonable, different
assumptions could change the estimated fair values and, therefore, impairment charges could be
required.

Employee Benefit Plans 

The Company provides a range of benefits to its employees and retired employees, including pensions
and postretirement health care. Plan assets and obligations are recorded annually based on the
Company s measurement date utilizing various actuarial assumptions such as discount rates, assumed
rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates as of that
date. Measurements of net periodic benefit cost are based on the assumptions used for the previous
year-end measurements of assets and obligations. The Company reviews its actuarial assumptions on
an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when
appropriate. As required by U.S. GAAP, the effects of the modifications are recorded currently or
amortized over future periods.

The discount rate used by the Company is based on the interest rate of noncallable high-quality
corporate bonds, with appropriate consideration of the Company s pension plans  participants 
demographics and benefit payment terms. At July 31, 2006, the Company increased its discount rate
on U.S. plans to 6.50% from 5.50% at July 31, 2005. The increase of 100 basis points was consistent
with the changes in published bond indices as adjusted for the pension plan liability profile. The
change decreased the Company s U.S. projected benefit obligation at September 30, 2006 by
approximately $300 million.

In estimating the expected return on plan assets, the Company considers the historical returns on
plan assets, adjusted for forward-looking considerations, inflation assumptions and the impact of
the active management of the plans  invested assets. Reflecting the relatively long-term nature of
the plans  obligations, approximately 60% of the plans  assets were invested in equities, with the
balance primarily invested in fixed income instruments. At July 31, 2006, the Company decreased its
expected long-term return on U.S. plan assets from 8.75% to 8.25%.

36 

Table of Contents   

The Company uses a market-related value of assets that recognizes the difference between the
expected return and the actual return on plan assets over a three-year period. As of September 30,
2006, the Company had approximately $22 million of unrecognized asset losses associated with its
U.S. pension plans, which will be recognized in the calculation of the market-related value of
assets and subject to amortization in future periods.

Based on information provided by its independent actuaries and other relevant sources, the Company
believes that the assumptions used are reasonable; however, changes in these assumptions could
impact the Company s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Primarily as a result of a $180 million voluntary cash contribution in fiscal year 2005, the
Company has recorded a prepaid benefit cost of $240 million for its U.S. pension plans as of
September 30, 2006 in accordance with SFAS No. 87  Employers  Accounting for Pensions.  SFAS No. 87
requires that an asset be recognized if the net periodic pension cost is less than the amounts the
employer has contributed to the plan and a liability be recognized if the net periodic pension cost
exceeds amounts the employer has contributed to the plan. The funded status of a retirement plan is
the difference between the projected benefit obligation and the fair value of its plan assets. The
projected benefit obligation is the actuarial present value of all benefits attributed by the
plan s benefit formula to employee service. At September 30, 2006, the Company s U.S. pension plans
were underfunded by $165 million since the projected benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of
its plan assets. Material differences may result between the funded status of a retirement plan and
the recorded asset or liability due to certain items that have an immediate impact on the projected
benefit obligation, but are recognized over a longer period of time in the net periodic pension
cost. For example, at September 30, 2006, the Company had an unrecognized net actuarial loss on its
U.S. pension plans of $282 million. This actuarial loss is included in the projected benefit
obligation at September 30, 2006, but in accordance with SFAS No. 87, in general, the amount of the
loss is amortized to net periodic pension expense over the average remaining service period of the
employees in the plan where the loss was generated.

Product Warranties 

The Company offers warranties to its customers depending upon the specific product and terms of the
customer purchase agreement. A typical warranty program requires that the Company replace defective
products within a specified time period from the date of sale. The Company records an estimate of
future warranty-related costs based on actual historical return rates. At September 30, 2006, the
Company had recorded $162 million of warranty reserves based on an analysis of return rates and
other factors .  While the Company s warranty costs have historically been within its calculated
estimates, it is possible that future warranty costs could differ significantly from those
estimates.

Income Taxes 

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between
financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases and operating loss and other loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those
temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The Company records a valuation
allowance that primarily represents foreign operating and other loss carryforwards for which
utilization is uncertain. Management judgment is required in determining the Company s provision
for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and the valuation allowance recorded against
the Company s net deferred tax assets. In calculating the provision for income taxes on an interim
basis, the Company uses an estimate of the annual effective tax rate based upon the facts and
circumstances known at each interim period. On a quarterly basis, the actual effective tax rate is
adjusted as appropriate based upon the actual results as compared to those forecasted at the
beginning of the fiscal year. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, the historical and
projected financial performance of the operation recording the net deferred tax asset is considered
along with any other pertinent information. Since future financial results may differ from previous
estimates, periodic adjustments to the Company s valuation allowance may be necessary. At September
30, 2006, the Company had a valuation allowance of $355 million, of which $215 million relates to
net operating loss carryforwards, primarily in Germany, Italy, and the Netherlands, for which
sustainable taxable income has not been demonstrated; $82 million relates to net capital loss
carryforwards, primarily in the U.S., for which future capital gains are not assured; and $58
million of other deferred tax assets. The Company does not provide additional U.S. income taxes on
undistributed

37 

Table of Contents   

earnings of consolidated foreign subsidiaries included in stockholders  equity. Such earnings could
become taxable upon the sale or liquidation of these foreign subsidiaries or upon dividend
repatriation. The Company s intent is for such earnings to be reinvested by the subsidiaries or to
be repatriated only when it would be tax effective through the utilization of foreign tax credits.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employer s Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132
(R).  SFAS No. 158 requires that the Company recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of its
defined benefit and retiree medical plans as an asset or liability in the fiscal year 2007
year-end balance sheet, with changes in the funded status recognized through other comprehensive
income in the year in which they occur. Additionally, SFAS No. 158 requires the Company to measure
the funded status of a plan as of the date of its fiscal year-end. The Company is assessing the
potential impact the adoption of SFAS No. 158 will have on its consolidated financial condition.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements.  SFAS No. 157 defines
fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair
value measurements. SFAS No. 157 also establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes
information used in developing assumptions when pricing an asset or liability. SFAS No. 157 will
be effective for the Company beginning in fiscal year 2008. The Company is assessing the potential
impact the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will have on its consolidated financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.

In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,  which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in
income taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
 Accounting for Income Taxes.  The interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and
measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position
taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 allows recognition of only those tax
benefits that satisfy a greater than 50% probability threshold. FIN 48 also provides guidance on
derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure,
and transition. FIN 48 is effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2007. The Company is
assessing the potential impact that the adoption of FIN 48 will have on its previously established
tax reserves, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, 
which clarifies that an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a
conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value can be reasonably estimated even though
uncertainty exists about the timing and/or method of settlement. Under FIN 47, companies must
accrue for costs related to legal obligations associated with the retirement, disposal, removal or
abandonment of tangible long-lived assets when the timing and/or method of settlement of the
obligation is conditional on a future event and if the liability s fair value can be reasonably
estimated. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company adopted FIN 47 and recorded a
non-cash, after-tax charge of $7 million, which is reported in the fiscal year 2006 consolidated
statement of income as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. The charge
primarily relates to legal obligations at owned properties in the power solutions business.

Effective October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R),  Share Based Payment  (SFAS No.
123(R)) using the modified prospective method. The modified prospective method requires
compensation cost to be recognized beginning on the effective date (a) based on the requirements of
SFAS No. 123(R) for all share-based payments granted after the effective date and (b) based on the
requirements of SFAS No. 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of
SFAS No. 123(R) that remain unvested on the effective date. As such, prior periods will not reflect
restated amounts. The cumulative impact of adopting SFAS 123(R) was not significant to the
Company s operating results since the Company had previously adopted the fair value recognition
provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  and adopted the disclosure
requirements of SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation   Transition and Disclosure
- - an amendment of SFAS 123. 

38 

Table of Contents   

RISK MANAGEMENT 

The Company selectively uses financial instruments to reduce market risk associated with changes in
foreign currency, interest rates and commodity prices. All hedging transactions are authorized and
executed pursuant to clearly defined policies and procedures, which strictly prohibit the use of
financial instruments for speculative purposes. At the inception of the hedge, the Company assesses
the effectiveness of the hedge instrument and designates the hedge instrument as either (1) a hedge
of a recognized asset or liability or of a recognized firm commitment (a fair value hedge), (2) a
hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid
related to an unrecognized asset or liability (a cash flow hedge) or (3) a hedge of a net
investment in a foreign operation (a net investment hedge). The Company performs hedge
effectiveness testing on an ongoing basis depending on the type of hedging instrument used.

For all foreign currency derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, retrospective
effectiveness is tested on a monthly basis using a cumulative dollar offset test. The fair value of
the hedged exposures and the fair value of the hedge instruments are revalued and the ratio of the
cumulative sum of the periodic changes in the value of the hedge instruments to the cumulative sum
of the periodic changes in the value of the hedge is calculated. The hedge is deemed as highly
effective if the ratio is between 80% and 125%. For commodity hedging contracts, the Company aligns
the critical terms of its derivative contracts with the terms of the supply contracts.

For net investment hedges, the Company assesses its net investment positions in the foreign
operations and compares it with the outstanding net investment hedges on a quarterly basis. The
hedge is deemed effective if the aggregate outstanding principal of the hedge instruments
designated as the net investment hedge in a foreign operation does not exceed the Company s net
investment positions in the respective foreign operation.

A discussion of the Company s accounting policies for derivative financial instruments is included
in Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,  in the notes to consolidated financial
statements, and further disclosure relating to financial instruments is included in Note 11 to the
consolidated financial statements.

Foreign Exchange 

The Company has manufacturing, sales and distribution facilities around the world and thus makes
investments and enters into transactions denominated in various foreign currencies. In order to
maintain strict control and achieve the benefits of the Company s global diversification, foreign
exchange exposures for each currency are netted internally so that only its net foreign exchange
exposures are, as appropriate, hedged with financial instruments.

The Company hedges 70% to 90% of the nominal amount of each of its known foreign exchange
transactional exposures. The Company primarily enters into foreign currency exchange contracts to
reduce the earnings and cash flow impact of the variation of non-functional currency denominated
receivables and payables. Gains and losses resulting from hedging instruments offset the foreign
exchange gains or losses on the underlying assets and liabilities being hedged. The maturities of
the forward exchange contracts generally coincide with the settlement dates of the related
transactions. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are recognized in the
same period as gains and losses on the hedged items. The Company also selectively hedges
anticipated transactions that are subject to foreign exchange exposure, primarily with foreign
currency exchange contracts, which are designated as cash flow hedges in accordance with SFAS No.
133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,  as amended by SFAS No. 137,
SFAS No. 138, and SFAS No. 149.

The Company selectively finances its foreign operations with local, non-U.S. dollar debt. In those
instances, the foreign currency denominated debt serves as a natural hedge of the foreign
operations  net asset positions. The Company has also entered into several foreign currency
denominated debt obligations and cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge portions of its net
investments in Europe and Japan. The currency effects of the debt obligations and swaps are
reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income account within shareholders  equity where
they offset gains and losses recorded on the net investments in Europe and Japan.

39 

Table of Contents   

Sensitivity Analysis 

The following table indicates the total U.S. dollar (USD) equivalents of net foreign exchange
contracts (hedging transactional exposure) and non-USD denominated cash, debt and cross-currency
interest rate swaps (hedging translation exposure) outstanding by currency and the corresponding
impact on the value of these instruments assuming a 10% appreciation/depreciation of the USD
relative to all other currencies on September 30, 2006.

As previously noted, the Company s policy prohibits the trading of financial instruments for
speculative purposes. It is important to note that gains and losses indicated in the sensitivity
analysis would be offset by gains and losses on the underlying receivables, payables and net
investments in foreign subsidiaries described above (in millions, in USD equivalent):

Interest Rates 

The Company s earnings exposure related to adverse movements in interest rates is primarily derived
from outstanding floating rate debt instruments that are indexed to short-term market rates. The
Company, as needed, uses interest rate swaps to modify its exposure to interest rate movements. In
accordance with SFAS No. 133, the swaps qualify and are designated as cash flow hedges or fair
value hedges. A 10% increase or decrease in the average cost of the Company s variable rate debt,
including outstanding swaps, would result in a change in pre-tax interest expense of approximately
$6 million.

In September 2005, following a definitive merger agreement unanimously approved by the Boards of
Directors of the Company and York, the Company entered into three forward treasury lock agreements
to reduce the market risk associated with changes in interest rates associated with the Company s
anticipated fixed-rate note issuance to finance the acquisition of York. The three forward treasury
lock agreements, which had a combined notional amount of $1.3 billion, fixed a portion of the
future interest cost for 5-year, 10-year and 30-year bonds. The treasury lock agreements were
designated as cash flow hedges. The agreements were unwound at the time the bonds were issued. The
fair value of each treasury lock agreement, or the difference between the treasury lock reference
rate and the fixed rate at time of note issuance, is amortized to interest expense over the life of
the respective note issuance.

40 

Table of Contents   

Commodities 

The Company uses commodity contracts in the financial derivatives market in cases where commodity
price risk cannot be naturally offset or hedged through supply base fixed price contracts.
Commodity risks are systematically managed pursuant to policy guidelines. As a cash flow hedge,
gains and losses resulting from the hedging instruments offset the gains or losses upon purchase of
the underlying commodities that will be used in the business. The maturities of the commodity
contracts coincide with the expected purchase of the commodities.

ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY AND OTHER MATTERS 

The Company s global operations are governed by laws addressing protection of the environment
(Environmental Laws) and worker safety and health (Worker Safety Laws). Under various
circumstances, these laws impose civil and criminal penalties and fines, as well as injunctive and
remedial relief, for noncompliance and require remediation at sites where Company-related
substances have been released into the environment.

The Company has expended substantial resources globally, both financial and managerial, to comply
with applicable Environmental Laws and Worker Safety Laws, and to protect the environment and
workers. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with such laws and maintains
procedures designed to foster and ensure compliance. However, the Company has been, and in the
future may become, the subject of formal or informal enforcement actions or proceedings regarding
noncompliance with such laws or the remediation of Company-related substances released into the
environment. Such matters typically are resolved by negotiation with regulatory authorities
resulting in commitments to compliance, abatement or remediation programs and in some cases payment
of penalties. Historically, neither such commitments nor penalties imposed on the Company have been
material.

Environmental considerations are a part of all significant capital expenditure decisions; however,
expenditures in 2006 related solely to environmental compliance were not material. At September 30,
2006, the Company had an accrued liability of $34 million relating to environmental matters
compared with $28 million one year ago. A charge to income is recorded when it is probable that a
liability has been incurred and the cost can be reasonably estimated. The Company s environmental
liabilities do not take into consideration any possible recoveries of future insurance proceeds.
Because of the uncertainties associated with environmental remediation activities at sites where
the Company may be potentially liable, future expenses to remediate identified sites could be
considerably higher than the accrued liability. However, while neither the timing nor the amount of
ultimate costs associated with known environmental remediation matters can be determined at this
time, the Company does not expect that these matters will have a material adverse effect on its
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Additionally, the Company is involved in a number of product liability and various other suits
incident to the operation of its businesses. Insurance coverages are maintained and estimated costs
are recorded for claims and suits of this nature. It is management s opinion that none of these
will have a materially adverse effect on the Company s financial position, results of operations or
cash flows (see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements). Costs related to such matters
were not material to the periods presented.

41 

Table of Contents   

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA 

* 
       
     Due to the use of the weighted-average shares outstanding for each quarter for computing
earnings per share, the sum of the quarterly per share amounts may not equal the per share
amount for the year. 

ITEM 7A     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   

See  Risk Management  included in Item 7   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.

42 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 8     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

Index to Consolidated Financial Statements  

43 

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Johnson Controls, Inc.

We have completed integrated audits of Johnson Controls, Inc. s 2006 and 2005 consolidated
financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006,
and an audit of its 2004 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are
presented below.

Consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule 

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Johnson Controls, Inc. and its
subsidiaries at September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2006 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our
opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are
the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our
audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Notes 1 and 12 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment,  effective October 1,
2005. In addition, as discussed in Notes 1 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for
Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143,  in the
fourth quarter of 2006.

Internal control over financial reporting 

Also, in our opinion, management s assessment, included in Management s Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that the Company maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 based on criteria established in
 Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria.
Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria established in
 Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the COSO. The Company s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility
is to express opinions on management s assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal
control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards

44 

Table of Contents   

require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of
internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design
and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for
our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
December 1, 2006

45 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 

Consolidated Statements of Income 

* 
       
     Products and systems consist of automotive experience and power solutions products and
systems and building efficiency installed systems. Services are building efficiency technical
and facility management services. 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 

46 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 

Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 

47 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 

48 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 

49 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

September 30, 2006 

1.  
       
      SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Principles of Consolidation  

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Johnson Controls, Inc. and its
domestic and foreign subsidiaries that are consolidated in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). All significant intercompany
transactions have been eliminated. Investments in partially-owned affiliates are accounted for by
the equity method when the Company s interest exceeds 20%. Under certain criteria as provided for
in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. (FIN) 46(R),  Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities,  the Company may consolidate a partially-owned affiliate when it has
less than a 50% ownership. Gains and losses from the translation of substantially all foreign
currency financial statements are recorded in the accumulated other comprehensive income account
within shareholders  equity. 

Use of Estimates  

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results could differ from those estimates. 

Fair Value of Financial Instruments  

The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, short-term debt and accounts
payable approximate their carrying values. The fair value of long-term debt, which was $4.6 billion
and $1.7 billion at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, was determined using market quotes.
See Note 11 for fair value of derivative instruments. 

Cash and Cash Equivalents  

The Company considers all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less when
purchased to be cash equivalents. 

Receivables  

Receivables consist of amounts billed and currently due from customers and unbilled costs and
accrued profits related to revenues on long-term contracts that have been recognized for accounting
purposes but not yet billed to customers. The Company extends credit to customers in the normal
course of business and maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts resulting from the inability or
unwillingness of customers to make required payments. The allowance for doubtful accounts is based
on historical experience, existing economic conditions and any specific customer collection issues
the Company has identified. 

Percentage-of-Completion Contracts  

The building efficiency business records certain long term contracts under the
percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Under this method, sales and gross profit are
recognized as work is performed based on the relationship between actual costs incurred and total
estimated costs at completion. The Company records costs and earnings in excess of billings on
uncompleted contracts within accounts receivable   net and billings in excess of costs and
earnings on uncompleted contracts within other current liabilities in the consolidated statements
of financial position. Amounts included within accounts receivable   net related to these
contracts were $455 million and $315 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Amounts
included within other current liabilities were $314 million and $226 million at September 30, 2006
and 2005, respectively. 

50 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Inventories  

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using either the last-in,
first-out (LIFO) method or the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Finished goods and
work-in-process inventories include material, labor and manufacturing overhead costs. 

Pre-Production Costs Related to Long-Term Supply Arrangements  

The Company s policy for engineering, research and development, and other design and development
costs related to products that will be sold under long-term supply arrangements requires such costs
to be expensed as incurred. Customer reimbursements are recorded as an increase in cash and a
reduction of selling, general and administrative expense when reimbursement from the customer is
received. Costs for molds, dies, and other tools used to make products that will be sold under
long-term supply arrangements are capitalized within property, plant and equipment if the Company
has title to the assets or has the non-cancelable right to use the assets during the term of the
supply arrangement. Capitalized items, if specifically designed for a supply arrangement, are
amortized over the term of the arrangement; otherwise, amounts are amortized over the estimated
useful lives of the assets. The carrying values of assets capitalized in accordance with the
foregoing policy are periodically reviewed for evidence of impairment. At September 30, 2006 and
2005, approximately $270 million and $268 million, respectively, of costs for molds, dies and other
tools were capitalized within property, plant and equipment which represented assets to which the
Company had title. In addition, at September 30, 2006 and 2005, the Company recorded within other
current assets approximately $136 million and $280 million, respectively, of costs for molds, dies
and other tools for which customer reimbursement is assured. 

Property, Plant and Equipment  

Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation is provided over the estimated
useful lives of the respective assets using the straight-line method for financial reporting
purposes and accelerated methods for income tax purposes. The estimated useful lives range from 10
to 40 years for buildings and improvements and from 3 to 20 years for machinery and equipment. 

The Company capitalizes interest on borrowings during the active construction period of major
capital projects. Capitalized interest is added to the cost of the underlying assets and is
amortized over the useful lives of the assets. 

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  

Goodwill reflects the cost of an acquisition in excess of the fair values assigned to identifiable
net assets acquired. The Company performs an annual goodwill impairment review of its operating
segments during the fourth fiscal quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the asset might be impaired, using a fair-value method based on management s
judgments and assumptions. The fair value represents the amount at which an operating segment could
be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties on an arms-length basis. In
estimating the fair value, the Company uses historical multiples of earnings and published
multiples of earnings of comparable entities with similar operations and economic characteristics.
The estimated fair value is then compared with the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including
recorded goodwill. The Company is subject to financial statement risk to the extent that the
carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value. The impairment testing performed by the Company
in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 indicated that the estimated fair value of each operating
segment exceeded its corresponding carrying amount, including recorded goodwill and, as such, no
impairment exists. 

Indefinite lived other intangible assets are also subject to at least annual impairment testing. A
considerable amount of management judgment and assumptions are required in performing the
impairment tests. The Company believes the judgments and assumptions used in the impairment tests
are reasonable and no impairment exists at September 30, 2006. 

51 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets  

The Company reviews long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and other intangible
assets with definite lives, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. At September 30, 2006, the Company does not have
any material long-lived assets whose recovery is at risk. 

Revenue Recognition  

The Company s building efficiency business recognizes revenue from long-term systems installation
contracts over the contractual period under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. This
method of accounting recognizes sales and gross profit as work is performed based on the
relationship between actual costs incurred and total estimated costs at completion. Sales and gross
profit are adjusted prospectively for revisions in estimated total contract costs and contract
values. Estimated losses are recorded when identified. Claims against customers are recognized as
revenue upon settlement. The amount of accounts receivable due after one year is not significant. 

The building efficiency business enters into extended warranties and long-term service and
maintenance agreements with certain customers. For these arrangements, revenue is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the respective contract term. 

The Company s building efficiency business also sells certain HVAC products and services in bundled
arrangements, where multiple products and/or services are involved. In accordance with Emerging
Issues Task Force Issue No. 00-21,  Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables,  the Company
divides bundled arrangements into separate deliverables and revenue is allocated to each
deliverable based on the relative fair value of all elements or the fair value of undelivered
elements. 

In all other cases, the Company recognizes revenue at the time products are shipped and title
passes to the customer or as services are performed. 

Research and Development Costs  

Expenditures for research activities relating to product development and improvement are charged
against income as incurred and included within selling, general and administrative expenses in the
consolidated statement of income. Such expenditures for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005
and 2004 were $743 million, $817 million and $844 million, respectively. 

A portion of the costs associated with these activities is reimbursed by customers and, for the
years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, were $323 million, $402 million and $352 million,
respectively. 

Earnings Per Share  

Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net income, after deducting dividend requirements
on the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding. Diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing net income, after deducting the
after-tax compensation expense that would arise from the assumed conversion of the Series D
Convertible Preferred Stock, by diluted weighted average shares outstanding. Diluted weighted
average shares assume the conversion of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, if dilutive, plus
the dilutive effect of common stock equivalents which would arise from the exercise of stock
options. Effective December 31, 2003, the Company converted all the outstanding Series D
Convertible Preferred Stock (see Note 13). 

Foreign Currency Translation  

Substantially all of the Company s international operations use the respective local currency as
the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of international entities have been translated at
period-end exchange rates, and income and expenses have been translated using average exchange
rates for the period. 

52 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  

Accumulated other comprehensive income is defined as the sum of net income and all other non-owner
changes in equity. The components of the non-owner changes in equity, or accumulated other
comprehensive income, were as follows (in millions, net of tax): 

Derivative Financial Instruments  

The Company has written policies and procedures that place all financial instruments under the
direction of corporate treasury and restrict all derivative transactions to those intended for
hedging purposes. The use of financial instruments for speculative purposes is strictly prohibited.
The Company uses financial instruments to manage the market risk from changes in foreign exchange
rates, commodity prices, compensation liabilities and interest rates. 

The fair values of all derivatives are recorded in the consolidated statement of financial
position. The change in a derivative s fair value is recorded each period in current earnings or
accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI), depending on whether the derivative is designated as
part of a hedge transaction and if so, the type of hedge transaction. 

The Company hedges 70% to 90% of the nominal amount of each of its known foreign exchange
transactional exposures. The Company primarily enters into forward exchange contracts to reduce the
earnings and cash flow impact of non-functional currency denominated receivables and payables.
Gains and losses resulting from these contracts offset the foreign exchange gains or losses on the
underlying assets and liabilities being hedged. The maturities of the forward exchange contracts
generally coincide with the settlement dates of the related transactions. Gains and losses on these
contracts are recorded in miscellaneous   net in the consolidated statement of income and are
recognized in the same period as gains and losses on the hedged items. 

Cash Flow Hedges  - The Company selectively hedges anticipated transactions that are subject to
foreign exchange exposure or commodity price exposure, primarily using foreign currency exchange
contracts and commodity contracts, respectively. These instruments are designated as cash flow
hedges in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133,  Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,  as amended by SFAS No. 137, No. 138 and No. 149
and are recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position at fair value. The effective
portion of the contracts  gains or losses due to changes in fair value are initially recorded as a
component of accumulated OCI and are subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged
transactions, typically sales or costs related to sales, occur and affect earnings. These contracts
are highly effective in hedging the variability in future cash flows attributable to changes in
currency exchange rates or commodity price changes. The Company also selectively uses interest rate
swaps to modify its exposure to interest rate movements. These swaps also qualify as cash flow
hedges, with changes in fair value recorded as a component of accumulated OCI. Interest expense is
recorded in earnings at the fixed rate set forth in the swap agreement. As of September 30, 2005,
the Company entered into three forward treasury lock agreements designated as cash flow hedges to
reduce the market risk associated with changes in interest rates related to the Company s
fixed-rate note issuance (see Notes 10 and 11). There were no interest rate swaps designated as
cash flow hedges outstanding at September 30, 2006. 

For the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004, the net amounts recognized in earnings
due to ineffectiveness and amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were not
material. The amount reported as realized and unrealized gains/losses on derivatives in the
accumulated OCI account within shareholders  equity represents the net gain/loss on derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges. 

53 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Fair Value Hedges    The Company had two interest rate swaps outstanding at September 30, 2006 and
2005 designated as a hedge of the fair value of a portion of fixed-rate bonds (see Note 11). Both
the swap and the hedged portion of the debt are recorded in the consolidated statement of financial
position. The change in fair value of the swaps exactly offsets the change in fair value of the
hedged debt, with no net impact on earnings. 

Net Investment Hedges  - The Company has cross-currency interest rate swaps and foreign
currency-denominated debt obligations that are designated as hedges of the foreign currency
exposure associated with its net investments in foreign operations. The currency effects of the
debt obligations are reflected in the accumulated OCI account where they offset translation gains
and losses recorded on the Company s net investments in Europe and Japan. The cross-currency
interest rate swaps are recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position at fair value,
with changes in value attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates recorded in the foreign
currency translation adjustments component of accumulated OCI. Net interest payments or receipts
from the interest rate swaps are recorded as adjustments to interest expense in earnings on a
current basis. A net loss of approximately $29 million associated with hedges of net investments in
foreign operations was recorded in the accumulated OCI account for the period ended September 30,
2006. A net gain of approximately $5 million associated with hedges of net investments in foreign
operations was recorded in the accumulated OCI account for the period ended September 30, 2005. 

New Accounting Pronouncements  

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employer s Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132
(R).  SFAS No. 158 requires that the Company recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of its
defined benefit and retiree medical plans as an asset or liability in the fiscal year 2007
year-end balance sheet, with changes in the funded status recognized through other comprehensive
income in the year in which they occur. Additionally, SFAS No. 158 requires the Company to measure
the funded status of a plan as of the date of its fiscal year-end. The Company is assessing the
potential impact that the adoption of SFAS No. 158 will have on its consolidated financial
condition. 

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements.  SFAS No. 157 defines
fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair
value measurements. SFAS No. 157 also establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes
information used in developing assumptions when pricing an asset or liability. SFAS No. 157 will
be effective for us beginning in fiscal year 2008. The Company is assessing the potential impact
that the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will have on its consolidated financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows. 

In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,  which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in
income taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
 Accounting for Income Taxes.  The interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and
measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position
taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 allows recognition of only those tax
benefits that satisfy a greater than 50% probability threshold. FIN 48 also provides guidance on
derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure,
and transition. FIN 48 is effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2007. The Company is
assessing the potential impact that the adoption of FIN 48 will have on its previously established
tax reserves, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 

Effective for the year ended September 30, 2006, the Company adopted FIN 47,  Accounting for
Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations,  which clarifies that an entity is required to recognize
a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value can
be reasonably estimated even though uncertainty exists about the timing and/or method of
settlement. See Note 5 for the impact of the Company s adoption of FIN 47 in the fourth quarter of
fiscal year 2006. 

Effective October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R),  Share Based Payment  (SFAS No.
123(R)), using the modified prospective method. See Note 12 for additional information regarding
stock-based compensation. 

54 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Reclassification  

Certain prior year amounts have been revised to conform to the current year s presentation.
Specifically, the Company has revised its consolidated statements of cash flows for the years
ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 to combine cash flows from discontinued operations with cash
flows from continuing operations. The Company had previously separated these amounts from
continuing operations and reported them as cash flows from discontinued operations. 

2.  
       
      ACQUISITIONS  

On December 9, 2005, the Company completed its acquisition of York International Corporation
(York). The Company paid $56.50 for each outstanding share of York common stock. The total cost of
the acquisition, excluding cash acquired, was approximately $3.1 billion, including the assumption
of $563 million of debt, change in control payments and direct costs of the transaction. The
Company initially financed the acquisition by issuing unsecured commercial paper, which was
refinanced with long-term debt on January 17, 2006. York s results of operations have been included
in the consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. 

The acquisition of York enabled the Company to become a single source supplier of integrated
products and services for building owners to optimize comfort and energy efficiency. The
acquisition enhanced the Company s heating, ventilating, and air conditioning equipment (HVAC),
controls, fire and security capabilities and positions the Company in a strategic leadership
position in the global building environment industry which offers significant growth potential. 

The following table summarizes the preliminary fair values of the York assets acquired and
liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition (in millions): 

In conjunction with the York acquisition, the Company recorded goodwill of approximately $2.0
billion, none of which is tax deductible, with allocation to the building efficiency business
reporting segments as follows: $422 million to North America systems; $594 million to North America
service; $473 million to North America unitary products group; $147 million to Europe; and $411
million to rest of world. In addition, intangible assets subject to amortization were valued at
$246 million with useful lives between 1.5 and 30 years, of which $194 million was assigned to
customer relationships with useful lives between 20 and 30 years. Intangible assets not subject to
amortization, primarily trademarks, were valued at $256 million. The York purchase price allocation
has been substantially completed as of September 30, 2006, and final adjustments, if any, are not
expected to be material. 

The Company has recorded restructuring reserves of approximately $158 million related to the York
acquisition, comprised of $80 million of severance costs, $62 million related to contract
terminations and facility closures and $16 million of other direct costs associated with exiting
certain activities of the acquired business. These restructuring reserves include workforce
reductions of approximately 3,000 employees and calls for two manufacturing plants to be closed
while other plants and branch offices will be merged into existing facilities of the Company. The
costs of these restructuring activities were recorded as costs of the acquisition and were provided
for in accordance with FASB Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 95-3,  Recognition of Liabilities
in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination.  The Company anticipates that the restructuring
actions will be completed by the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2007. As of September 30,
2006, $59 million of the restructuring reserves have been utilized, including 

55 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

severance ($30 million), contract termination and facility closure costs ($23 million) and other
costs associated with exiting certain activities of the acquired business ($6 million). 

Had the York acquisition been completed on October 1, 2004, the Company s unaudited pro forma
consolidated results of operations would have been as follows (in millions, except per share
amounts): 

The pro forma information for the year ended September 30, 2005 includes expense of approximately
$51 million for the amortization of the inventory write-up. The pro forma information for the year
ended September 30, 2006 includes the reversal of approximately $51 million related to the
amortization of the inventory write-up that was included in the Company s consolidated operating
results. The pro forma information does not purport to be indicative of the results that actually
would have been achieved if the operations were combined during the periods presented and is not
intended to be a projection of future results or trends. 

Also in fiscal year 2006, the Company completed six additional acquisitions for a combined purchase
price of $111 million, including the assumption of debt, none of which were material to the
Company s consolidated financial statements. In connection with these acquisitions, the Company
recorded goodwill of $57 million. 

In fiscal year 2005, the Company completed six acquisitions for a combined purchase price of
approximately $333 million, including the assumption of debt. The most significant of these
acquisitions are as follows: 

In July 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of Delphi Corporation s global
battery business. This acquisition enables the Company to participate in the rapidly
growing Asian automotive battery market, particularly in China. 

In June 2005, the Company completed its acquisition of USI Companies, Inc. This
acquisition provides clients with an expanded, integrated mix of global corporate real
estate services and enables the Company to further align new and existing customers  real
estate assets with their business objectives. 

56 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The following table summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at
the dates of acquisition in fiscal year 2005 (in millions). 

The operating results of these acquisitions have been included in the Company s consolidated
financial statements from the dates of acquisition. Pro forma information reflecting these
acquisitions has not been disclosed as the impact on consolidated net income was not material. 

In conjunction with the fiscal year 2005 acquisitions, the Company recorded goodwill of $155
million, with allocation to the reporting segments as follows: $11 million, all of which is tax
deductible, to building efficiency   North America service; $50 million, all of which is tax
deductible, to the building efficiency   global facilities management; $8 million, none of which is
tax deductible, to automotive experience   North America; and $86 million, $82 million of which is
tax deductible, to power solutions. In addition, intangible assets subject to amortization, all of
which were customer relationships, were valued at $61 million with useful lives between 10 and 50
years. 

The Company has recorded restructuring reserves of $67 million related to the Delphi battery
acquisition. These restructuring reserves included workforce reductions of approximately 1,500
employees and called for three plants to be closed or merged into existing facilities of the
Company. The Company anticipates that the restructuring actions will be completed by the end of the
first quarter of fiscal year 2007. As of September 30, 2006, $30 million of these restructuring
reserves have been utilized. 

In fiscal year 2004, the Company acquired 100% ownership of its power solutions joint venture with
Grupo IMSA, S.A. de C.V. (Latin American JV). The purchase price for the remaining 51% interest in
the joint venture was $525 million, including the assumption of debt. The acquisition was funded
initially with short-term debt. Management believed that the acquisition was in line with the
Company s growth strategies and would provide new opportunities to strengthen the Company s global
leadership position in the automotive battery industry. 

57 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The following table summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in
the Latin American JV acquisition, which was effective on August 1, 2004 (in millions). 

The operating results of the Latin American JV have been included in the Company s consolidated
financial statements from the date of acquisition. For periods prior to the acquisition, the
Company s investment was accounted for by the equity method. Pro forma information reflecting this
acquisition has not been disclosed as the impact on consolidated net income was not material. 

In conjunction with the Latin American JV acquisition, the Company recorded goodwill of $458
million, none of which is tax deductible, and assigned it to the power solutions reporting segment.
In addition, intangible assets subject to amortization, all of which were customer relationships,
were valued at $12 million with a weighted average useful life of approximately 39 years.
Intangible assets not subject to amortization, primarily trademarks, were valued at $25 million. 

3.  
       
      DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

In December 2005, the Company acquired York s Bristol Compressor business as part of its
acquisition of York (see Note 2) and engaged a firm to actively market the business. The Bristol
Compressor business included Scroll Technologies, Inc., an unconsolidated joint venture with
Carrier Corporation that was divested in September 2006. The Company continues to market the
remainder of the Bristol Compressor business. 

In March 2005, the Company completed the sale of its Johnson Controls World Services, Inc.
subsidiary, which had been included in the Company s former building efficiency segment, to IAP
Worldwide Services, Inc. for $260 million. The sale resulted in a gain of approximately $139
million ($85 million after-tax), net of related costs. 

In February 2005, the Company completed the sale of its engine electronics business, which had
been included in the automotive experience   Europe segment, to Valeo for    316 million. This
non-core business was acquired in fiscal year 2002 from Sagem SA. The sale of the engine
electronics business resulted in a gain of $81 million ($51 million after-tax), net of related
costs. 

58 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The following summarizes the net sales and income before income taxes and minority interests of
the discontinued operations for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004 (in millions): 

The consolidated statement of financial position at September 30, 2006 includes assets of
discontinued operations of $81 million within other current assets, which consisted of accounts
receivable   net ($27 million), inventories ($44 million), other current assets ($7 million) and
property, plant and equipment   net ($3 million). Liabilities of discontinued operations at
September 30, 2006 within other current liabilities totaled $36 million, which consisted of
accounts payable ($26 million) and other current liabilities ($10 million). At September 30, 2005
there were no assets or liabilities of discontinued operations recorded in the consolidated
statement of financial position. 

Assets of Johnson Controls World Services, Inc. as of the disposal date totaled $178 million,
which consisted of accounts receivable ($127 million), goodwill ($30 million), property, plant and
equipment   net ($10 million) and other miscellaneous assets ($11 million). Liabilities of Johnson
Controls World Services, Inc. as of the disposal date totaled $57 million, which consisted of
accounts payable ($40 million) and other miscellaneous liabilities ($17 million). 

Assets of the engine electronics business as of the disposal date totaled $427 million, which
consisted of goodwill ($154 million), accounts receivable ($100 million), property, plant and
equipment   net ($69 million), other intangible assets   net ($59 million) and other miscellaneous
assets ($45 million). Liabilities of the engine electronics business as of the disposal date
totaled $89 million, which consisted of accounts payable ($82 million) and other miscellaneous
liabilities ($7 million). 

4.  
       
      INVENTORIES  

Inventories consisted of the following (in millions): 

59 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

5.  
       
      PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT  

Property, plant and equipment consisted of the following (in millions): 

Interest costs capitalized during the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004 were $21
million, $11 million and $16 million, respectively. 

In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47, which clarifies that an entity is required to recognize a
liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation (ARO) if the fair value
can be reasonably estimated even though uncertainty exists about the timing and/or method of
settlement. Under FIN 47, companies must accrue for costs related to legal obligations associated
with the retirement, disposal, removal or abandonment of tangible long-lived assets when the timing
and/or method of settlement of the obligation is conditional on a future event and if the
liability s fair value can be reasonably estimated. FIN 47 requires that the ARO estimate be
recorded as a liability and as an increase to the related asset. The capitalized asset is
depreciated over the remaining useful life of the asset. 

We have identified certain legal and future environmental obligations at owned properties in the
power solutions business as conditional AROs. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, the
Company adopted FIN 47 and, using site-specific surveys and other historical information, recorded
an increase in net property, plant and equipment of $16 million, an ARO liability of $28 million
and a non-cash, after-tax charge of $7 million ($0.03 per share), which is reported in the fiscal
year 2006 consolidated statement of income as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle, net of income taxes. 

60 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

6.  
       
      GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS  

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill in each of the Company s reporting segments for the
years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): 

61 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The Company s other intangible assets, primarily from business acquisitions, are valued based on
independent appraisals and consisted of (in millions): 

Amortization of other intangible assets for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was
$44 million, $23 million and $19 million, respectively. Excluding the impact of any future
acquisitions, the Company anticipates amortization of other intangible assets will average
approximately $37 million per year over the next five years. 

7.  
       
      PRODUCT WARRANTIES  

The Company offers warranties to its customers depending upon the specific product and terms of the
customer purchase agreement. A typical warranty program requires that the Company replace defective
products within a specified time period from the date of sale. The Company records an estimate for
future warranty-related costs based on actual historical return rates. Based on analysis of return
rates and other factors, the adequacy of the Company s warranty provisions are adjusted as
necessary. While the Company s warranty costs have historically been within its calculated
estimates, it is possible that future warranty costs could exceed those estimates. The Company s
product warranty liability is included in other current liabilities in the consolidated statement
of financial position. 

The changes in the carrying amount of the Company s total product warranty liability for the years
ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions): 

62 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

8.  
       
      LEASES  

Certain administrative and production facilities and equipment are leased under long-term
agreements. Most leases contain renewal options for varying periods, and certain leases include
options to purchase the leased property during or at the end of the lease term. Leases generally
require the Company to pay for insurance, taxes and maintenance of the property. Leased capital
assets included in net property, plant and equipment, primarily buildings and improvements, were
$57 million and $71 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

Other facilities and equipment are leased under arrangements that are accounted for as operating
leases. Total rental expense for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $288
million, $242 million and $235 million, respectively. 

Future minimum capital and operating lease payments and the related present value of capital lease
payments at September 30, 2006 were as follows (in millions): 

9.  
       
      SHORT-TERM DEBT AND CREDIT AGREEMENTS  

Short-term debt consisted of the following (in millions): 

The Company has a $1.6 billion committed five-year credit facility to support its outstanding
commercial paper. The facility expires in October 2010. Average outstanding commercial paper for
the year ended September 30, 2006 was $1.1 billion. There were no draws against the $1.6 billion
facility during the year ended September 30, 2006. 

In addition, the Company had uncommitted lines of credit from banks totaling approximately $560
million at September 30, 2006 of which $350 million remained unused. The lines of credit are
subject to the usual terms and conditions applied by banks. 

63 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

10.  
       
      LONG-TERM DEBT  

Long-term debt consisted of the following (in millions; due dates by fiscal year): 

In January 2006, the Company issued $2.5 billion in floating and fixed rate notes consisting of
the following four series: $500 million floating rate notes due in fiscal year 2008 (interest rate
of 5.7% at September 30, 2006), $800 million fixed rate notes due in fiscal year 2011, $800
million fixed rate notes due in fiscal year 2016 and $400 million fixed rate notes due in fiscal
year 2036. The Company also entered into a 24 billion yen (approximately $210 million) three year
loan. The net proceeds of the note offering and the bank loan were used to repay the unsecured
commercial paper obligations that were used to initially finance the acquisition of York. 

At September 30, 2006, the Company s euro-denominated long-term debt was at fixed rates with a
weighted-average interest rate of 8.0% and the Company s yen-denominated debt was at floating rates
with a weighted average interest rate of 0.8%. 

The installments of long-term debt maturing in subsequent years are: 2007   $368 million; 2008  
$976 million; 2009   $331 million; 2010   $13 million; 2011   $817 million; 2012 and thereafter  
$2.0 billion. The Company s long-term debt includes various financial covenants, none of which are
expected to restrict future operations. 

Total interest paid on both short and long-term debt for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005
and 2004 was $234 million, $133 million and $137 million, respectively. The Company uses financial
instruments to manage its interest rate exposure (see Note 11). These instruments affect the
weighted average interest rate of the Company s debt and interest expense. 

64 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

11.  
       
      FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  

The Company selectively uses derivative instruments to reduce market risk associated with changes
in foreign currency, commodities, compensation expense and interest rates. Under Company policy,
the use of derivatives is restricted to those intended for hedging purposes; the use of any
derivative instrument for speculative purposes is strictly prohibited. See Note 1 for additional
information regarding the Company s objectives for holding certain derivative instruments, its
strategies for achieving those objectives, and its risk management and accounting policies
applicable to these instruments. 

The Company has global operations and participates in the foreign exchange markets to minimize its
risk of loss from fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The Company primarily uses foreign
currency exchange contracts to hedge certain of its foreign currency exposure. 

The Company selectively uses interest rate swaps to reduce market risk associated with changes in
interest rates (cash flow or fair value hedges). In May 2002, the Company entered into a
four-and-a-half-year interest rate swap to hedge a portion of the Company s 5% notes maturing in
November 2006. Under the swap, the Company receives interest based on a fixed U.S. dollar rate of
5% and pays interest based on a floating three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR rate plus 14.75 basis
points. Terms of the four-and-a-half-year swap were modified since inception of the swap resulting
in a decrease of the notional amount to $100 million from the original $250 million. In October
2003, the Company entered into a four-year and three-month interest rate swap to hedge the
Company s 6.3% notes maturing in February 2008. Under the swap, the Company receives interest
based on a fixed U.S. dollar rate of 6.3% and pays interest based on a floating three-month U.S.
dollar LIBOR rate plus 283.5 basis points. 

In September 2005, the Company entered into three forward treasury lock agreements to reduce the
market risk associated with changes in interest rates associated with the Company s anticipated
fixed-rate note issuance to finance the acquisition of York (cash flow hedge). The three forward
treasury lock agreements, which had a combined notional amount of $1.3 billion, fixed a portion of
the future interest cost for 5-year, 10-year and 30-year bonds. The fair value of each treasury
lock agreement, or the difference between the treasury lock reference rate and the fixed rate at
time of note issuance, was amortized to interest expense over the life of the respective note
issuance. In January 2006, in connection with the Company s debt refinancing, the three forward
lock treasury agreements were terminated. 

The Company also selectively uses cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge the foreign currency
exposure associated with its net investment in certain foreign operations (net investment hedges).
Under the swaps, the Company receives interest based on a variable U.S. dollar rate and pays
interest based on variable euro rates on the outstanding notional principal amounts in dollars and
euro, respectively. The Company did not renew the Yen cross-currency interest rate swap that
matured on June 30, 2006, and incurred an immaterial foreign exchange loss on the swap. The
Company continues to carry Yen debt as a hedge of its Yen exposure related to its net investment
in Japan. 

In addition, the Company selectively uses equity swaps to reduce market risk associated with its
stock-based compensation plans, such as its deferred compensation plans and stock appreciation
rights. These equity compensation liabilities increase as the Company s stock price increases and
decrease as the Company s stock price decreases. In contrast, the value of the swap agreement
moves in the opposite direction of these liabilities, allowing the Company to fix a portion of the
liabilities at a stated amount. In March 2004, the Company entered into an equity swap agreement.
In connection with the swap agreement, as amended, a third party may purchase shares of the
Company s stock in the market or in privately negotiated transactions up to an amount equal to
$200 million in aggregate market value at any given time. Although the swap agreement has a stated
expiration date, the Company s intention is to continually renew the swap agreement with Citibank,
N.A. s consent. The net effect of the change in the fair value of the swap agreement and the
change in equity compensation liabilities was not material to the Company s earnings for the years
ended September 30, 2006 or 2005. 

The Company uses commodity contracts in the financial derivatives market in cases where commodity
price risk cannot be naturally offset or hedged through supply base fixed price contracts.
Commodity risks are systematically managed pursuant to policy guidelines. As a cash flow hedge,
gains and losses resulting from the hedging instruments offset the gains or losses upon purchase of
the underlying commodities that will be used in the business. The maturities of the 

65 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

commodity contracts coincide with the expected purchase of the commodities. Realized and unrealized
gains and losses on these contracts are recognized in the same period as gains and losses on the
hedged items. 

The Company s derivative instruments are recorded at fair value in the consolidated statement of
financial position as follows (in millions at U.S. dollar equivalent): 

It is important to note that the Company s derivative instruments are hedges protecting against
underlying changes in foreign currency, interest rates, compensation liabilities and commodity
price changes. Accordingly, the implied gains/losses associated with the fair values of foreign
currency exchange contracts and cross-currency interest rate swaps would be offset by gains/losses
on underlying payables, receivables and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. Similarly,
implied gains/losses associated with interest rate swaps offset changes in interest rates and the
fair value of long-term debt. 

The fair values of interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps were determined using
dealer quotes and market interest rates. The fair values of foreign currency exchange contracts
were determined using market exchange rates. 

12.  
       
      STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION  

Effective October 1, 2002, the Company voluntarily adopted the fair value recognition provisions
of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  and adopted the disclosure requirements
of SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation   Transition and Disclosure   an
amendment of SFAS 123.  

Effective October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective
method. The modified prospective method requires compensation cost to be recognized beginning on
the effective date (a) based on the requirements of SFAS No. 123(R) for all share-based payments
granted after the effective date and (b) based on the requirements of SFAS No. 123 for all awards
granted to employees prior to the effective date of SFAS No. 123(R) that remain unvested on the
effective date. As such, prior periods will not reflect restated amounts. The cumulative impact of
adopting SFAS 123(R) was not significant to the Company s operating results since the Company had
previously adopted SFAS No. 123. Pro forma net income and basic and diluted earnings per share
have not been disclosed as the impact of applying the fair value based method to all outstanding
and unvested awards is not material to the Company s consolidated results of operations. 

The Company has two share-based compensation plans, which are described below. The compensation
cost charged against income for those plans was approximately $67 million, $38 million and $35
million for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The total income tax
benefit recognized in the income statement for 

66 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

share-based compensation arrangements was approximately $27 million, $15 million and $14 million
for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company applied a nominal vesting approach for
employee stock-based compensation awards with retirement eligible provisions. Under the nominal
vesting approach, the Company recognized compensation cost over the vesting period and, if the
employee retired before the end of the vesting period, the Company recognized any remaining
unrecognized compensation cost at the date of retirement. For stock-based payments issued after
the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company applies a non-substantive vesting period approach
whereby expense is accelerated for those employees that receive awards and are eligible to retire
prior to the award vesting. Had the Company applied the non-substantive vesting period approach
prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), an approximate $11 million and $5 million reduction of
pre-tax compensation cost would have been recognized for the years ended September 30, 2006 and
2005, respectively. For the year ended September 30, 2004, the impact of applying the
non-substantive vesting period approach is not significant. 

Stock Option Plan  

Stock Options  

The Company s 2000 Stock Option Plan, as amended (Plan), which is shareholder-approved, permits
the grant of stock options to its employees for up to approximately 13 million shares of new
common stock (approximately 5 million shares of common stock remained available to be granted at
September 30, 2006). Option awards are granted with an exercise price equal to the market price of
the Company s stock at the date of grant; those option awards vest between two and three years
after the grant date and expire 10 years from the grant date. 

The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option
valuation model that uses the assumptions noted in the following table. Expected volatilities are
based on the historical volatility of the Company s stock and other factors. The Company uses
historical data to estimate option exercises and employee terminations within the valuation model.
The expected term of options represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be
outstanding. The risk-free rate for periods during the contractual life of the option is based on
the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. 

A summary of stock option activity at September 30, 2006, and changes for the year then
ended, is presented below:

67 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the years ended September 30,
2006, 2005 and 2004 was $15.35, $13.92 and $10.99, respectively. 

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and
2004 was approximately $106 million, $57 million and $62 million, respectively. 

In conjunction with the exercise of stock options granted, the Company received cash payments for
the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004 of approximately $97 million, $66 million and
$59 million, respectively. 

In November 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123(R)-3,  Transition Election
Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards.  The Company has elected to
adopt the alternative transition method provided in the FASB Staff Position for calculating the tax
effects of stock-based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R). The alternative transition method
includes computational guidance to establish the beginning balance of the additional paid-in
capital pool (APIC Pool) related to the tax effects of employee stock-based compensation, and a
simplified method to determine the subsequent impact on the APIC Pool for employee stock-based
compensation awards that are vested and outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R). The tax benefit
from the exercise of stock options, which is recorded in additional paid-in-capital, was $33
million, $28 million and $19 million, respectively, for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005
and 2004. The Company does not settle equity instruments granted under share-based payment
arrangements for cash. 

At September 30, 2006, the Company had approximately $27 million of total unrecognized
compensation cost related to nonvested share-based compensation arrangements granted under the
Plan. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 0.9 years. 

Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs)  

The Plan also permits SARs to be separately granted to certain employees. SARs vest under the same
terms and conditions as option awards; however, they are settled in cash for the difference
between the market price on the date of exercise and the exercise price. As a result, SARs are
recorded in the Company s consolidated statements of financial position as a liability until the
date of exercise. 

The fair value of each SAR award is estimated using a similar method described for option awards.
In accordance with SFAS No. 123(R), the fair value of each SAR award is recalculated at the end of
each reporting period and the liability and expense adjusted based on the new fair value. Prior to
the effective date of SFAS No. 123(R), the SAR liability and expense was determined based on the
intrinsic value of each award at the end of each reporting period. The difference between the fair
value and intrinsic value of SAR awards on the date of adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) was not
material to the Company s consolidated results of operations. 

The assumptions used to determine the fair value of the SAR awards at September 30, 2006 were as
follows: 

68 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

A summary of SAR activity at September 30, 2006, and changes for the year then ended, is presented
below: 

In conjunction with the exercise of SARs granted, the Company made payments of $10 million and $6
million during the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

Restricted (Nonvested) Stock  

In fiscal year 2002, the Company adopted a restricted stock plan that provides for the award of
restricted shares of common stock or restricted share units to certain key employees. Awards under
the restricted stock plan vest 50% after two years from the grant date and 50% after four years
from the grant date. 

A summary of the status of the Company s nonvested restricted shares at September 30, 2006, and
changes for the year then ended, is presented below: 

At September 30, 2006, the Company had approximately $17 million of total unrecognized
compensation cost related to nonvested share-based compensation arrangements granted under the
restricted stock plan. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of
1.0 years. 

13.  
       
      SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY  

The Company originally issued 341.7969 shares of its 7.75% Series D Convertible Preferred Stock to
its ESOP. The preferred stock was issued in fractional amounts representing one ten-thousandth of
a share each or 3.4 million preferred stock units in total. Each preferred stock unit has a
liquidation value of $51.20. The ESOP financed its purchase of the preferred stock units by
issuing debt. An amount representing unearned employee compensation, equivalent in value to the
unpaid balance of the ESOP debt, was recorded as a deduction from shareholders  equity. 

69 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Effective December 31, 2003, the Company s Board of Directors authorized the redemption of all the
outstanding Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, held in the ESOP, and the ESOP trustee converted
the preferred stock into common shares in accordance with the terms of the preferred stock
certificate. The conversion resulted in the issuance of approximately 7.5 million common shares
(on a post-split basis) and was accounted for through a transfer from preferred stock to common
stock and capital in excess of par value. The conversion of $96 million of preferred shares held
by the ESOP has been reflected within Shareholders  Equity in the consolidated statement of
financial position. The conversion of these shares resulted in their inclusion in the basic
weighted average common shares outstanding amount used to compute basic earnings per share (EPS).
The conversion of preferred shares has always been assumed in the determination of diluted EPS.
The Company s ESOP was financed with debt issued by the ESOP, and the final ESOP debt payment was
paid by the Company in December 2003. 

On November 19, 2003, the Company s Board of Directors declared a two-for-one split of the
Company s common stock payable January 2, 2004 to shareholders of record on December 12, 2003. The
stock split resulted in the issuance of approximately 90.5 million additional shares of common
stock. In connection with the stock split, the par value of the common stock was changed from $.16
2/3 per share to $.04 1/6 per share. 

14.  
       
      EARNINGS PER SHARE  

The Company presents both basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) amounts. Basic EPS is
calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during the year. Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of
common shares and common equivalent shares outstanding during the year that are calculated using
the treasury-stock method for stock options. The treasury stock method assumes that the Company
uses the proceeds from the exercise of awards to repurchase common stock at the average market
price during the period. The assumed proceeds under the treasury stock method include the purchase
price that the grantee will pay in the future, compensation cost for future service that the
Company has not yet recognized and any windfall tax benefits that would be credited to additional
paid-in capital when the award generates a tax deduction. If there would be a shortfall resulting
in a charge to additional paid-in capital, such an amount would be a reduction of the assumed
proceeds. 

The following table reconciles the numerators and denominators used to calculate basic and diluted
earnings per share for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (in millions): 

70 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

15.  
       
      RETIREMENT PLANS  

Pension Benefits  

The Company has non-contributory defined benefit pension plans covering most U.S. and certain
non-U.S. employees. The benefits provided are primarily based on years of service and average
compensation or a monthly retirement benefit amount. Effective January 1, 2006, certain of the
Company s U.S. pension plans were amended to prohibit new participants from entering the plans.
Active participants will continue to accrue benefits under the amended plans. Funding for U.S.
pension plans equals or exceeds the minimum requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974. Funding for non-US plans observes the local legal and regulatory limits. Also, the
Company makes contributions to union-trusteed pension funds for construction and service personnel. 

The Company s investment policies employ an approach whereby a mix of equities and fixed income
investments are used to maximize the long-term return of plan assets for a prudent level of risk.
The investment portfolio primarily contains a diversified blend of equity and fixed-income
investments. Equity investments are diversified across domestic and non-domestic stocks, as well as
growth, value, and small to large capitalizations. Fixed income investments include corporate and
government issues, with short-, mid- and long-term maturities, with a focus on investment grade
when purchased. Investment and market risks are measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through
regular investment portfolio reviews, annual liability measurements, and periodic asset/liability
studies. 

The Company s actual asset allocations are in line with target allocations. The Company rebalances
asset allocations monthly, or as appropriate, in order to stay within a range of allocation for
each asset category. 

The Company s pension plan asset allocations by asset category are shown below. 

The expected return on plan assets is based on the Company s expectation of the long-term average
rate of return of the capital markets in which the plans invest. The average market returns are
adjusted, where appropriate, for active asset management returns. The expected return reflects the
investment policy target asset mix and considers the historical returns earned for each asset
category. 

For pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations (ABO) that exceed plan assets, the projected
benefit obligation (PBO), ABO and fair value of plan assets of those plans were $1,360 million,
$1,263 million and $802 million, respectively, as of September 30, 2006 and $769 million, $695
million and $296 million, respectively, as of September 30, 2005. 

71 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The Company expects to contribute approximately $103 million in cash to its defined benefit pension
plans in fiscal year 2007. Projected benefit payments from the plans as of September 30, 2006 are
estimated as follows (in millions): 

Savings and Investment Plans  

The Company sponsors various defined contribution savings plans primarily in the U.S. that allow
employees to contribute a portion of their pre-tax and/or after-tax income in accordance with plan
specified guidelines. Under specified conditions, the Company will contribute to certain savings
plans based on the employees  eligible pay and/or will match a percentage of the employee
contributions up to certain limits. Excluding the ESOP, matching contributions charged to expense
amounted to $60 million, $42 million and $23 million for the fiscal years ended 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. 

The Company established an ESOP as part of its savings and investment plans. The Company s annual
contributions to the ESOP, when combined with the preferred stock dividends, were of an amount
which allowed the ESOP to meet its debt service requirements. This contribution amount was $17
million in 2004. The Company s final ESOP debt payment was made in December 2003 (see Note 13).
Compensation expense recorded by the Company related to the ESOP was $26 million in 2004. No
compensation expense was recorded by the Company related to the ESOP in 2006 or 2005. 

Postretirement Health and Other Benefits  

The Company provides certain health care and life insurance benefits for eligible retirees and
their dependents primarily in the U.S. Most non-U.S. employees are covered by government sponsored
programs, and the cost to the Company is not significant. The U.S. benefits are paid as incurred.
No change in the Company s practice of funding these benefits on a pay-as-you-go basis is
anticipated. 

Eligibility for coverage is based on meeting certain years of service and retirement age
qualifications. These benefits may be subject to deductibles, co-payment provisions and other
limitations, and the Company has reserved the right to modify these benefits. Effective January 31,
1994, the Company modified certain salaried plans to place a limit on the Company s cost of future
annual retiree medical benefits at no more than 150% of the 1993 cost. 

The September 30, 2006 accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) for both pre-65 and
post-65 years of age employees was determined using assumed medical care cost trend rates of 9.5%
decreasing one half percent each year to an ultimate rate of 5% and prescription drug trend rates
of 11.5% decreasing one half percent each year to an ultimate rate of 6%. The September 30, 2005
APBO for both pre-65 and post-65 years of age employees was determined using assumed health care
cost trend rates for both medical and prescription drug costs of 10% decreasing 1% each year to an
ultimate rate of 5%. The health care cost trend assumption has a significant effect on the amounts
reported. To illustrate, a one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rate
would have increased the accumulated benefit obligation by $19 million at September 30, 2006 and
the sum of the service and interest costs in fiscal year 2006 by $2 million. A one percentage point
decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rate would have decreased the accumulated benefit
obligation by $11 million at September 30, 2006 and the sum of the service and interest costs by $1
million. 

72 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The Company expects to contribute approximately $24 million in cash to its postretirement health
and other benefit plans in fiscal year 2007. Projected benefit payments from the plans as of
September 30, 2006 are estimated as follows (in millions): 

In December 2003, the U.S. Congress enacted the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003 (Act) for employers sponsoring postretirement health care plans that
provide prescription drug benefits. The Act introduces a prescription drug benefit under Medicare
as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans providing a benefit
that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D.1. Under the Act, the Medicare subsidy
amount is received directly by the plan sponsor and not the related plan. Further, the plan sponsor
is not required to use the subsidy amount to fund postretirement benefits and may use the subsidy
for any valid business purpose. Projected subsidy receipts are estimated to be approximately $4
million per year over the next ten years. 

The table that follows contains the accumulated benefit obligation and reconciliations of the
changes in the PBO, the changes in plan assets and the funded status (in millions): 

73 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

74 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

(1)  
       
     The acquisitions for the U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans for the year ended
September 30, 2006 include $617 million projected benefit obligations, $440 million of plan
assets and $177 million of accumulated postretirement benefit obligations primarily related to
the York acquisition. 

(2)  
       
     Plan assets and obligations are determined based on a July 31 measurement date at
September 30, 2006 and 2005 for U.S. plans and a September 30 measurement date at September
30, 2006 and 2005 for non-U.S. plans, utilizing assumptions as of those dates. 

The table that follows contains the components of net periodic benefit cost (in millions).

Japanese Pension Settlement Gain  

During fiscal year 2004, the Company recorded a pension gain related to certain of the Company s
Japanese pension plans established under the Japanese Welfare Pension Insurance Law. In accordance
with amendments to this law, the Company completed the transfer of certain pension obligations and
related plan assets to the Japanese government which resulted in a non-cash settlement gain of $84
million, net of $1 million associated with the recognition of unrecognized actuarial losses,
recorded within SG A expenses in the consolidated statement of income. The excess of benefit
obligations over plan assets (funded status) of the Company s non-U.S. pension plans decreased $85
million as a result of the transfer. 

16.  
       
      RESTRUCTURING COSTS  

As part of its continuing efforts to reduce costs and improve the efficiency of its global
operations, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (2006 Plan) in the third quarter of
fiscal year 2006 and recorded a $197 million restructuring charge. The 2006 Plan, which primarily
includes workforce reductions and plant consolidations in the automotive experience and building
efficiency businesses, is expected to be substantially completed by the end of the third quarter
of fiscal year 2007. The automotive experience business related restructuring is focused on
improving the profitability associated with the manufacturing and supply of instrument panels,
headliners and other interior components in North America and increasing the efficiency of seating
component operations in Europe. The charges associated with the building efficiency business
mostly relate to Europe where the Company has launched a systems 

75 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

redesign initiative. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, automotive experience   North
America increased its 2006 Plan restructuring charge by $8 million for additional employee
severance and termination benefits. The Company expects to incur other related and ancillary costs
associated with some of these restructuring activities in future periods. These costs are not
expected to be material and will be expensed as incurred. 

The 2006 Plan includes workforce reductions of approximately 4,700 employees (2,200 for automotive
experience   North America, 1,400 for automotive experience   Europe, 200 for building efficiency
- - North America, 600 for building efficiency   Europe, 280 for building efficiency   Rest of World
and 20 for power solutions). Restructuring charges associated with employee severance and
termination benefits will be paid over the severance period granted to each employee and on a lump
sum basis when required in accordance with individual severance agreements. As of September 30,
2006, approximately 350 employees have been separated from the Company. In addition, the 2006 Plan
includes 15 plant closures (10 in automotive experience   North America, 3 in automotive
experience   Europe, 1 in building efficiency   Europe and 1 in building efficiency   Rest of
World). The restructuring charge for the impairment of the long-lived assets associated with the
plant closures was determined using an undiscounted cash flow analysis. 

The following table summarizes the Company s 2006 Plan reserve, included within other current
liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position (in millions): 

Included within the  other  category are the write down of long-lived assets, exit costs for
terminating supply contracts associated with changes in the Company s manufacturing footprint and
strategies, lease termination costs and other direct costs. The write down of long-lived assets
includes $47 million related to automotive experience and $4 million related to building
efficiency. 

In the second quarter of fiscal year 2005, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (2005
Plan) involving cost reduction actions and recorded a $210 million restructuring charge. This
restructuring charge included workforce reductions of approximately 3,900 employees. During the
fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, automotive experience   Europe reversed $6 million of
restructuring reserves from the 2005 Plan that were not expected to be utilized. Restructuring
charges associated with employee severance and termination benefits are paid over the severance
period granted to each employee and on a lump sum basis when required in accordance with
individual severance agreements. As of September 30, 2006, approximately 2,900 employees have
separated from the Company pursuant to the 2005 Plan. In addition, the 2005 Plan included 12 plant
closures. The charge for the impairment of the long-lived assets associated with the plant
closures was determined using an undiscounted cash flow analysis. The closures/restructuring
activities are primarily concentrated in Europe and North America. 

76 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The following table summarizes the 2005 Plan reserve, included within other current liabilities in
the consolidated statement of financial position (in millions): 

Included within the  other  category were exit costs related to terminating supply contracts
associated with changes in the Company s manufacturing footprint and strategies, lease termination
costs and other direct costs. The majority of the restructuring activities under the 2005 Plan are
expected to be completed by December 2006. 

In the second quarter of fiscal year 2004, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (2004
Plan), of which substantially all of the reserves have been utilized. During the fourth quarter of
fiscal year 2006, automotive experience   Europe released $2 million in remaining reserves not
expected to be utilized. 

Company management closely monitors its overall cost structure and continually analyzes each of
its businesses for opportunities to consolidate current operations, improve operating efficiencies
and locate facilities in low cost countries in close proximity to customers. This ongoing analysis
includes a review of its manufacturing, engineering, and purchasing operations, as well as the
overall global footprint for all its businesses. Because of the importance of new vehicle sales by
major automotive manufacturers to operations, the Company is affected by the general business
conditions in this industry. Future adverse developments in the automotive industry could impact
the Company s liquidity position and/or require additional restructuring of its operations. 

17.  
       
      INCOME TAXES  

An analysis of effective income tax rates for continuing operations is shown below: 

The Company s base effective income tax rate for continuing operations for fiscal year 2006
declined to 21.0% from 25.7% in fiscal year 2005 and 26.0% in fiscal year 2004, primarily due to
continuing global tax planning initiatives, increased income in certain foreign jurisdictions with
a rate of tax lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate and decreased income in higher tax
jurisdictions. The Company s effective tax rates were further reduced as a result of the following
discrete items: 

77 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Restructuring Charge   

In the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company recorded a $19 million discrete period tax
benefit related to the third quarter 2006 restructuring charge using a blended statutory tax rate
of 30.6%. 

Valuation Allowance Adjustments   

Based on the Company s cumulative operating results through the six months ended March 31, 2006
and an assessment of expected future profitability in Mexico, the Company concluded that it was
more likely than not that the tax benefits of its operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in
Mexico would be utilized in the future. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company
completed a tax reorganization in Mexico which will allow operating loss and tax credit
carryforwards to be offset against the future taxable income of the reorganized entities. As such,
in the second quarter of fiscal year 2006 the Company reversed a valuation allowance of $32
million attributable to these operating loss and tax credit carryforwards as a credit to income
tax expense. 

In the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company completed an analysis of its German
operations and, based on cumulative income over a 36-month period, an assessment of expected
future profitability in Germany and finalization of the 2006 Plan, determined that it was more
likely than not that the tax benefits of certain operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in
Germany would be utilized in the future. As such, the Company reversed $131 million attributable
to these operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in the third quarter as a credit to income
tax expense, net of remaining valuation allowances at certain German subsidiaries and tax reserve
requirements. 

Uncertain Tax Positions   

The Company s effective tax rate was reduced in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006 by a $10
million tax benefit related to a favorable tax audit resolution in a foreign jurisdiction. In
fiscal year 2004, the Company s effective tax rate was reduced by a $27 million favorable tax
settlement. 

The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant
judgment is required in determining its worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the
related assets and liabilities. In the ordinary course of the Company s business, there are many
transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Company is
regularly under audit by tax authorities. Accruals for tax contingencies are provided for in
accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 5  Accounting for Contingencies.  The Company s
federal income tax returns and certain foreign income tax returns for fiscal years 1997 through
2003 are currently under various stages of audit by the Internal Revenue Service and respective
foreign tax authorities. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, management
believes that it has appropriate support for the positions taken on its tax returns and that its
annual tax provisions included amounts sufficient to pay assessments, if any, which may be
proposed by the taxing authorities. At September 30, 2006, the Company has recorded a liability
for its best estimate of the probable loss on certain of its tax positions, the majority of which
is included in other noncurrent liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial position.
Nonetheless, the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the
taxing authorities may differ. 

78 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Foreign Dividend Repatriation   

In October 2004, the President signed the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA). The AJCA
created a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad
by providing an 85% dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign
operations. The deduction is subject to a number of limitations. During the quarter ended March
31, 2006, the Company completed its evaluation of its repatriation plans and $674 million of
foreign earnings were repatriated to the U.S. pursuant to the provisions of the AJCA. The increase
in income tax liability related to the Company s AJCA initiatives totaled $42 million. The Company
recorded $31 million of net income tax expense in the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, as $11
million had been previously recorded by York prior to it becoming a subsidiary of the Company in
accordance with York s approved repatriation plan. 

Other Discrete Period Items   

The Company s effective tax rate was reduced in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 by a $4
million tax benefit related to a $9 million gain resulting from the disposition of the Company s
interest in a German joint venture. 

The Company s effective tax rate was also reduced in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 by $11
million due to a change in tax status for subsidiaries in Hungary and the Netherlands. In fiscal
year 2005, the tax provision decreased as a result of a $12 million and $69 million tax benefit
from a change in tax status of subsidiaries in France and Germany, respectively, partially offset
by an increase in the tax valuation allowance of $28 million related to restructuring charges for
which no tax benefit was received in certain countries (primarily Germany and the U.K.) given the
uncertainty of its realization due to restrictive tax loss rules or a lack of sustained
profitability in the country at that time. The changes in tax status in each respective period
resulted from a voluntary tax election that produced deemed liquidations for U.S. federal income
tax purposes. The Company received these tax benefits in the U.S. for the losses from the decrease
in value from the original tax bases of these investments. These elections changed the tax status
of the respective subsidiaries from controlled foreign corporations (i.e., taxable entities) to
branches (i.e., flow through entities similar to a partnership) for U.S. federal income tax
purposes and are thereby reported as discrete period tax benefits in accordance with the
provisions of SFAS No. 109. 

Discontinued Operations   

The Company utilized an effective tax rate for discontinued operations of approximately 38%, 39%
and 35% for Bristol Compressors, World Services and its engine electronic business, respectively.
These effective tax rates approximate the local statutory rate adjusted for permanent differences. 

Components of the provision for income taxes on continuing operations were as follows (in
millions): 

79 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Consolidated domestic income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interests
for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $754 million, $826 million and $759
million, respectively. Consolidated foreign income from continuing operations before income taxes
and minority interests for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $384 million,
$177 million and $311 million, respectively. 

Income taxes paid for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $156 million, $177
million, and $107 million, respectively. 

The Company has not provided additional U.S. income taxes on approximately $960 million of
undistributed earnings of consolidated foreign subsidiaries included in stockholders  equity. Such
earnings could become taxable upon the sale or liquidation of these foreign subsidiaries or upon
dividend repatriation. The Company s intent is for such earnings to be reinvested by the
subsidiaries or to be repatriated only when it would be tax effective through the utilization of
foreign tax credits. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of unrecognized withholding
taxes and deferred tax liability on such earnings. 

Deferred taxes were classified in the consolidated statements of financial position as follows (in
millions): 

Temporary differences and carryforwards which gave rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities
included (in millions): 

At September 30, 2006, the Company had available foreign net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $2.0 billion, of which $589 million will expire at various dates between 2007 and
2021, and the remainder have an indefinite carryforward period. The valuation allowance,
generally, represents loss carryforwards for which utilization is uncertain because it is unlikely
that the losses will be utilized given the lack of sustained profitability and/or limited
carryforward periods in certain countries. 

80 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

18. SEGMENT INFORMATION 

SFAS No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,  establishes
the standards for reporting information about operating segments in financial statements. In
applying the criteria set forth in SFAS No. 131, the Company has determined that it has ten
reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. Certain operating segments are aggregated or
combined based on materiality within building efficiency   rest of world and power solutions in
accordance with the standard. The Company s ten reportable segments are presented in the context of
its three primary businesses   building efficiency, automotive experience and power solutions. 

Building efficiency   

North America Systems designs, produces, markets and installs heating, ventilating, and air
conditioning equipment (HVAC) and control systems that monitor, automate and integrate critical
building operating equipment and conditions including HVAC, fire-safety and security in commercial
buildings and in various industrial applications in North America. 

North America systems designs, produces, markets and installs mechanical equipment that
provides heating and cooling in North American non-residential buildings and industrial
applications as well as control systems that integrate the operation of this equipment
with other critical building systems. 

North America service provides technical services including inspection, scheduled
maintenance, repair and replacement of mechanical and control systems in North America, as
well as the retrofit and service components of performance contracts and other solutions. 

North America unitary products designs and produces heating and air conditioning
solutions for residential and light commercial applications and markets products to the
replacement and new construction markets. 

Workplace solutions provides on-site staff for complete real estate services, facility
operation and management to improve the comfort, productivity, energy efficiency and cost
effectiveness of building systems around the globe. 

Europe provides HVAC and refrigeration systems and technical services to the European
marketplace. 

Rest of world provides HVAC and refrigeration systems and technical services to markets
in Asia, the Middle East and Latin America. 

Automotive experience   

Automotive experience designs and manufactures interior systems and products for passenger cars
and light trucks, including vans, pick-up trucks and sport/crossover vehicles in North America,
Europe and Asia. Automotive experience systems and products include complete seating systems and
components; cockpit systems, including instrument clusters, information displays and body
controllers; overhead systems, including headliners and electronic convenience features; floor
consoles; and door systems. 

Power solutions    

Power solutions services both automotive original equipment manufacturers and the battery
aftermarket by providing advanced battery technology, coupled with systems engineering, marketing
and service expertise.  

The accounting policies applicable to the reportable segments are the same as those described
in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Management evaluates the performance of the
segments based primarily on operating income, excluding significant restructuring costs and other
significant non-recurring gains and losses. Operating revenues and expenses are allocated to
business segments in determining segment operating income. Items excluded
from the determination of segment operating income include interest income and expense, equity in
earnings of partially-owned affiliates, gains and losses from sales of businesses and long-term
assets, foreign currency gains and 

81 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

losses, and other miscellaneous income and expense. Unallocated
assets are corporate cash and cash equivalents, investments in partially-owned affiliates and
other non-operating assets. Financial information relating to the Company s reportable segments is
as follows (in millions): 

82 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

83 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

In fiscal year 2006, the Company recorded income related to a favorable legal settlement
associated with the recovery of previously incurred environmental costs in the power solutions
segment ($33 million). The Company also recorded income related to this legal settlement in
building efficiency   North America systems ($7 million) and other segments ($6 million), which
was offset by other unfavorable commercial and legal settlements. 

84 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The Company has significant sales to the automotive industry. The following is a summary of the
percentages of net sales from major customers: 

Approximately 40% of the Company s 2006 net sales to these customers were in the United States,
43% were European sales and 17% were attributable to sales in other foreign markets. As of
September 30, 2006, the Company had accounts receivable totaling approximately $1.4 billion from
these customers. 

Geographic Segments   

Financial information relating to the Company s operations by geographic area is as follows (in
millions): 

Net sales attributed to geographic locations are based on the location of the assets producing the
sales. Long-lived assets by geographic location consist of net property, plant and equipment. 

85 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

19.  
       
      COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  

In 1989, Johnson Controls initiated an action in the Milwaukee County, Wisconsin Circuit Court,
 Johnson Controls, Inc. v. Employers Insurance of Wausau , which sought reimbursement under
comprehensive general liability insurance policies dating from 1954 through 1985 for costs relating
to certain environmental matters. In 1995, the Circuit Court dismissed the action based on the
Wisconsin Supreme Court s decision in  City of Edgerton v. General Casualty Co. of Wisconsin . The
Company twice appealed the case to the Court of Appeals and then petitioned the Wisconsin Supreme
Court to review the lower courts  judgments. The Supreme Court granted the petition and on July 11,
2003, overruled its decision in the Edgerton case, and found that the comprehensive general
liability insurance policies may provide coverage for environmental damages. The Supreme Court s
decision remanded the case to the Circuit Court for further consideration. In fiscal years 2005 and
2006, the Company filed motions for declaratory judgment, in which it seeks a ruling that some of
its insurers breached their respective duties to defend, thus waiving defenses against the
Company s environmental claims. The Company is currently in settlement negotiations with certain of
the insurance company defendants and, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, reached agreement
with one of the defendants. The ultimate outcome of claims against the other defendants cannot be
determined at this time; however, the Company expects a decision on its motion during fiscal year
2007. 

Following allegations in a U.N. Oil-For-Food Inquiry Report that, prior to the Company s
acquisition of York, York had made improper payments to the Iraqi regime, York and the Company
jointly undertook to investigate the allegations and offered the companies  cooperation to the
Department of Justice (DOJ) and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). After completing the York
acquisition, the Company continued the internal inquiry and expanded its scope to include other
aspects of York s Middle East operations, including a review of York s use of agents, consultants
and other third parties, York s compliance with the Office of Foreign Assets Control licensing
requirements, and York s compliance with other potentially applicable trade laws. The Company has
also reviewed certain of York s sales practices in selected Asian markets. The factual inquiry is
now substantially complete and indicates that in a number of instances, York engaged in conduct
that may lead to enforcement actions against the Company under applicable U.S. laws, which give
authorities the right to pursue administrative, civil and criminal sanctions, including monetary
penalties. The Company has been voluntarily disclosing this information and offering continued
cooperation with the DOJ and SEC, as well as to other relevant authorities in the U.S. Departments
of Treasury, Commerce and Defense. The Company has begun preliminary discussions with the relevant
authorities to explore how these matters may be resolved. The Company is in the process of
evaluating and implementing various remedial measures with respect to the York operations. Based on
our understanding of the scope of the potential violations, a review of the statutory penalty
amounts articulated in the relevant statutes, our expectation that mitigating factors will be
applied to reduce the amount of the penalties and our review of past settlements made by public
companies in similar circumstances, the Company has determined a range of potential exposure and
accrued for its best estimate in the York opening balance sheet. The Company expects resolution of
this matter in fiscal year 2007. 

Prior to the Company s acquisition of York, York had been named as one of many defendants in
lawsuits alleging personal injury to one or more individuals from exposure to asbestos or
asbestos-containing products previously manufactured by York or by companies from which York
purchased product lines. As of September 30, 2006, the Company has recorded in the York opening
balance sheet a liability of $39 million for the estimated loss of known open asbestos-related
claims and a receivable of $8 million for estimated recoveries from our insurance carriers. The
Company estimates losses based upon York s historical experience of actual losses incurred. The
Company s estimate of asbestos-related liabilities for pending and expected future asbestos claims
is subject to considerable uncertainty because such liabilities are influenced by numerous
variables that are inherently difficult to predict, including but not limited to: the variable rate
at which new claims are filed; the impact of bankruptcies of other companies currently or
historically defending asbestos claims; the uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from
jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case; and unknown detail of each individual claim
such as the plaintiff s employment history, severity and type of injury, age, and other key
factors. The Company estimates recoveries based upon the terms of the proposed interim cost-sharing
arrangement and availability of other insurance and indemnification coverage. Costs related to
asbestos-related matters were not material to the Company s consolidated financial position,
results of operations or cash flows for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. 

86 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The Company is involved in a number of proceedings relating to environmental matters. At September
30, 2006 and 2005, the Company recorded a liability of approximately $34 million and $28 million,
respectively, relating to environmental matters. The decrease in environmental liabilities from the
prior year disclosure is primarily due to the adoption of FIN 47 in fiscal year 2006. The Company s
environmental liabilities do not take into consideration any possible recoveries of future
insurance proceeds. Because of the uncertainties associated with environmental remediation
activities, the Company s future expenses to remediate the currently identified sites could be
considerably higher than the accrued liability. Although it is difficult to estimate the liability
of the Company related to these environmental matters, the Company believes that these matters will
not have a materially adverse effect upon its capital expenditures, consolidated net income or
competitive position. Costs related to such matters were not material to the Company s consolidated
financial position, results of operations or cash flows for the periods presented. 

The Company is also involved in a number of product liability and various other suits incident to
the operation of its businesses. Insurance coverages are maintained and estimated costs are
recorded for claims and suits of this nature. It is management s opinion that none of these will
have a materially adverse effect on the Company s financial position, results of operations or cash
flows. Costs related to such matters were not material to the Company s consolidated financial
position, results of operations or cash flows for the periods presented. 

The Company has entered into supply contracts with certain vendors that include minimum volume
requirements which, if not met, could subject the Company to potential liabilities. As of September
30, 2006, there were no known volume shortfalls that would materially impact the Company s
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

A significant portion of the Company s sales are to customers in the automotive industry. Future
adverse developments in the automotive industry could impact the Company s liquidity position
and/or require additional restructuring of the Company s operations. In addition, a downturn in the
North America automotive market may also impact certain vendors  financial solvency, including the
ability to meet restrictive debt covenants, resulting in potential liabilities or additional costs
to the Company to ensure uninterrupted supply to its customers. 

87 

Table of Contents   

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

(In millions) 

ITEM 9   
       
       CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   

None.

ITEM 9A     CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal
executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure
controls and procedures, as such term is defined under Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ). Based upon their evaluation of
these disclosure controls and procedures, the principal executive officer and principal financial
officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 30,
2006 to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or
submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time
period specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the
Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company s management, including its principal
executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding
disclosure.

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

The Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control
over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s internal control over financial reporting is
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.

88 

Table of Contents   

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Company s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 using the criteria set forth in  Internal Control -
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO).

A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results
in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial
statements will not be prevented or detected. The Company concluded that it maintained effective
internal controls over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 based on criteria in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the COSO.

Management s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as
of September 30, 2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

There have been no significant changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting
during the quarter ended September 30, 2006, that have materially affected, or are reasonably
likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B     OTHER INFORMATION  

On December 5, 2006, the Company entered into an amended and restated Credit Agreement, dated that
day, among the Company, the financial institutions party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
administrative agent for the lenders (Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement replaced the
Company s existing $1.6 billion five-year revolving credit facility that was scheduled to expire on
October 5, 2010. There were no amounts outstanding under the facility on the date of its
termination, and the Company did not incur any early termination penalties. The Company intends to
use the revolving credit facility to provide a liquidity backstop for the Company s commercial
paper. The facility is available for general corporate purposes.

The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving credit facility that matures in December 2011. The
initial maximum aggregate amount of availability under the revolving credit facility is $2.0
billion, of which the entire amount is currently undrawn and available. The Credit Agreement
expressly contemplates that the Company may seek to increase the maximum aggregate amount of
availability under the revolving credit facility by $500 million. An increase is subject to the
satisfaction of certain conditions, including the identification of lenders (which may include
existing lenders or new lenders) willing to provide the additional commitments.

The description of the Credit Agreement set forth above is qualified by reference to the Credit
Agreement filed herewith as Exhibit 4.E and incorporated herein by reference. 

89 

Table of Contents   

PART III  

The information required by Part III, Items 10, 11, 12 and 14, is incorporated herein by reference
to the Company s Proxy Statement for its 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (fiscal year 2006
Proxy Statement), dated and to be filed with the SEC on December 6, 2006, as follows:

ITEM 10     DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

Incorporated by reference to sections entitled  Proposal One: Election of Directors,   Board
Information,   Board Compensation,   Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,   Q: Where can I
find Corporate Governance materials for Johnson Controls?  and  Audit Committee Report  of the
fiscal year 2006 Proxy Statement. Required information on executive officers of the Company appears
at Part I, Item 4 of this report.

ITEM 11     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  

Incorporated by reference to sections entitled  Executive Compensation,   Compensation Committee
Report,   Performance Graph,   Board Information  and  Employment Agreements  of the fiscal year
2006 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12   
       
       SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   

Incorporated by reference to sections entitled  Johnson Controls Share Ownership  and  Equity
Compensation Plan Information  (located in the body of Proposal Three) of the fiscal year 2006
Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS  

None.

ITEM 14     PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

Incorporated by reference to the section entitled  Relationship with Independent Auditors  of the
fiscal year 2006 Proxy Statement.

90 

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

ITEM 15     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or the required information is
shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.

Financial statements of 50% or less-owned companies have been omitted because the proportionate
share of their profit before income taxes and total assets are less than 20% of the respective
consolidated amounts, and investments in such companies are less than 20% of consolidated total
assets.

Other Matters 

For the purposes of complying with the amendments to the rules governing Form S-8 under the
Securities Act of 1933, the undersigned registrant hereby undertakes as follows, which undertaking
shall be incorporated by reference into registrant s Registration Statements on Form S-8 Nos.
33-30309, 33-31271, 33-58092, 33-58094, 333-10707, 333-66073, 333-41564 and 333-117898.

Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act of 1933 may be
permitted to directors, officers and controlling persons of the registrant pursuant to the
foregoing provisions, or otherwise, the registrant has been advised that in the opinion of the SEC
such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act of 1933 and is,
therefore, unenforceable. In the event that a claim for indemnification against such liabilities
(other than the payment by the registrant of expenses incurred or paid by a director, officer or
controlling person of the registrant in the successful defense of any action, suit or proceeding)
is asserted by such director, officer or controlling person in connection with the securities being
registered, the registrant will, unless in the opinion of its counsel the matter has been settled
by controlling precedent, submit to a court of appropriate jurisdiction the question whether such
indemnification by it is against public policy as expressed in the Act and will be governed by the
final adjudication of such issue.

91 

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 

By /s/ R. Bruce McDonald

R. Bruce McDonald  

Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer  

Date: December 5, 2006

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below as of December 5, 2006, by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities indicated:

/s/ John M. Barth

/s/ Stephen A. Roell 

John M. Barth

Stephen A. Roell 

Chief Executive Officer

Vice Chairman and 

and Director (Chairman)

Executive Vice President 

/s/ R. Bruce McDonald

/s/ Jeffrey G. Augustin 

R. Bruce McDonald

Jeffrey G. Augustin 

Executive Vice President and

Vice President and Corporate 

Chief Financial Officer

Controller (Principal Accounting 
Officer) 

/s/ Dennis W. Archer

/s/ Robert L. Barnett 

Dennis W. Archer

Robert L. Barnett 

Director

Director 

/s/ Natalie A. Black

/s/ Paul A. Brunner 

Natalie A. Black

Paul A. Brunner 

Director

Director 

/s/ Robert A. Cornog

/s/ Jeffrey A. Joerres 

Robert A. Cornog

Jeffrey A. Joerres 

Director

Director 

/s/ William H. Lacy

/s/ Southwood J. Morcott 

William H. Lacy

Southwood J. Morcott 

Director

Director 

/s/ Eugenio Clariond Reyes-Ratana

/s/ Richard F. Teerlink 

Eugenio Clariond Reyes-Ratana

Richard F. Teerlink 

Director

Director 

92 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 

Index to Exhibits 

Exhibit  
       
      Title  

3.(i)

Composite of Restated Articles of Incorporation of Johnson Controls, Inc., as amended
through December 12, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.(ii) to Johnson Controls,
Inc. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2003) (Commission
File No. 1-5097). 

3.(ii)

By-laws of Johnson Controls, Inc., as amended November 15, 2006 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3 to Johnson Controls, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K dated November
17, 2006) (Commission File No. 1-5097). 

4.A

Miscellaneous long-term debt agreements and financing leases with banks and other
creditors and debenture indentures.* 

4.B

Miscellaneous industrial development bond long-term debt issues and related loan
agreements and leases.* 

4.C

Letter of agreement dated December 6, 1990 between Johnson Controls, Inc., LaSalle
National Trust, N.A. and Fidelity Management Trust Company which replaces LaSalle National
Trust, N.A. as Trustee of the Johnson Controls, Inc. Employee Stock Ownership Plan Trust
with Fidelity Management Trust Company as Successor Trustee, effective January 1, 1991
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.F to Johnson Controls, Inc. Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended September 30, 1991) (Commission File No. 1-5097). 

4.D

Indenture for debt securities dated January 17, 2006 between Johnson Controls, Inc. and
The Bank of New York, as successor trustee to JP Morgan Chase Bank, National Association
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Johnson Controls, Inc. Registration Statement
on Form S-3ASR  Reg. No. 333-130714 ). 

4.E

Amended and restated Credit Agreement, dated December 5, 2006, among Johnson Controls,
Inc., the financial institutions party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
administrative agent for the lenders, filed herewith. 

10.A

Johnson Controls, Inc. 1992 Stock Option Plan, as amended on September 16, 2006, filed
herewith.** 

10.B

Johnson Controls, Inc. Common Stock Purchase Plan for Executives as amended November 17,
2004 and effective December 1, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.B to Johnson
Controls, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2004)
(Commission File No. 1-5097).** 

10.D

Johnson Controls, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for Certain Directors as amended on
November 15, 2006, filed herewith.** 

10.H

Johnson Controls, Inc. Executive Survivor Benefits Plan amended through October 1, 2001
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.I to Johnson Controls, Inc. Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended September 30, 2001) (Commission File No. 1-5097).** 

10.K

Form of employment agreement effective May 23, 2005, between Johnson Controls, Inc. and
all elected officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99 to Johnson Controls, Inc.
Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 23, 2005) (Commission File No. 1-5097).** 

10.L

Form of indemnity agreement effective September 21, 2005, between Johnson Controls, Inc.
and each of the directors and elected officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
to Johnson Controls, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 21, 2005) (Commission
File No. 1-5097). ** 

10.M

Johnson Controls, Inc. Director Share Unit Plan, as amended on November 15, 2006, filed
herewith.** 

93 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 

Index to Exhibits 

Exhibit  
       
      Title  

10.N

Johnson Controls, Inc. 2000 Stock Option Plan, as last amended on September 16, 2006,
filed herewith.** 

10.O

Form of stock option award agreement for Johnson Controls, Inc. 2000 Stock Option Plan,
as amended through October 1, 2001, as in use through March 20, 2006 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Johnson Controls, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K dated
November 17, 2004) (Commission File No. 1-5097).** 

10.P

Johnson Controls, Inc. 2001 Restricted Stock Plan, as amended March 21, 2006
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Johnson Controls, Inc. Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006) (Commission File No. 1-5097).** 

10.Q

Form of restricted stock award agreement for Johnson Controls, Inc. 2001 Restricted
Stock Plan, as amended and restated effective October 1, 2003, as in use through January
2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.Q to Johnson Controls, Inc. Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2005) (Commission File No. 1-5097).** 

10.R

Form of restricted stock award agreement for Johnson Controls, Inc. 2001 Restricted
Stock Plan, as amended March 21, 2006, as approved for use for future grants, filed
herewith.** 

10.S

Johnson Controls, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended on November 14,
2006, filed herewith.** 

10.T

Johnson Controls, Inc. 2003 Stock Plan for Outside Directors, as amended and restated
effective October 1, 2006, filed herewith.** 

10.U

Letter agreement as accepted by the Company on November 6, 2006 between Johnson
Controls, Inc. and Giovanni Fiori relating to Mr. Fiori s retirement date, filed herewith,
in accordance with the terms of the letter agreement dated November 29, 2004 amending
Giovanni Fiori s Executive Employment Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.S
to Johnson Controls, Inc. Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2005), relating to the letter agreement dated November 21, 2002 amending Giovanni Fiori s
Executive Employment Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.R to Johnson
Controls, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003), and to
the Johnson Controls, Inc. Executive Survivor Benefits Plan (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.I to Johnson Controls, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
September 30, 2001) (Commission File No. 1-5097).** 

10.V

Agreement and Plan of Merger between Johnson Controls, Inc., YJC Acquisition Corp., and
York International Corp. effective August 24, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2
to Johnson Controls, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K/A dated August 24, 2005) (Commission
File No. 1-5097). 

10.Y

Johnson Controls, Inc. Annual and Long-Term Incentive Performance Plan, effective
October 1, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the Definitive Proxy Statement
of Johnson Controls, Inc. filed on Schedule 14A on December 12, 2005) (Commission File No.
1-5097).** 

10.Z

Johnson Controls, Inc. Retirement Restoration Plan, approved on September 16, 2006,
filed herewith.** 

10.AA

Summary of Non-Employee Director Compensation approved on November 15, 2006, filed
herewith.** 

10.BB

Form of restricted stock award agreement for Johnson Controls, Inc. 2001 Restricted
Stock Plan, for grants made on January 3, 2006, filed herewith.** 

94 

Table of Contents   

Johnson Controls, Inc. 

Index to Exhibits 

Exhibit  
       
      Title  

10.CC

Form of stock option award agreement for Johnson Controls, Inc. 2000 Stock Option Plan,
as amended September 16, 2006, as approved for use for future grants, filed herewith.** 

21

Subsidiaries of the Registrant, filed herewith. 

23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm dated December 1, 2006, filed
herewith. 

31.1

Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, filed herewith. 

31.2

Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, filed herewith. 

32

Certification of Periodic Financial Report by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, filed
herewith. 

* 
       
     These instruments are not being filed as exhibits herewith because none of the long-term debt
instruments authorizes the issuance of debt in excess of 10% of the total assets of Johnson
Controls, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Johnson Controls, Inc. agrees to
furnish a copy of each such agreement to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request. 

** 
       
     Denotes a management contract or compensatory plan. 

95 

<EX-4.E>
 2
 c08525exv4we.htm
 AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT

exv4we 

Exhibit 4.E 

$2,000,000,000 

AMENDED AND RESTATED 
CREDIT AGREEMENT 

dated as of

December 5, 2006 

among

Johnson Controls, Inc., 

as Borrower and Guarantor,

The Eligible Subsidiaries Referred to Herein, 

as Borrowers,

The Lenders Parties Hereto 

and

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 

as Administrative Agent

J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., 

Sole Lead Arranger and Bookrunner

Bank of America, N.A. 

Barclays Bank PLC 

and 

Citibank, N.A., 

Co-Syndication Agents

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

COMMITMENT SCHEDULE  
PRICING SCHEDULE  
SCHEDULE I 

EXHIBIT A - 

Form of Note

EXHIBIT B -

Opinion of General Counsel of the Company 

EXHIBIT C -

Opinion of Special Counsel of the Administrative Agent 

EXHIBIT D -

Form of Election to Participate 

EXHIBIT E -

Form of Election to Terminate 

EXHIBIT F -

Opinion of Counsel of the Borrower (Borrowings by Eligible
Subsidiaries) 

EXHIBIT G -

Assignment and Assumption Agreement 

EXHIBIT H -

Mandatory Costs Rate 

EXHIBIT I -

Extension Agreement 

vi 

AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of December 5, 2006 among JOHNSON CONTROLS,
INC., the ELIGIBLE SUBSIDIARIES referred to herein, the LENDERS from time to time parties hereto
and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent.

WHEREAS,  certain of  the parties hereto have heretofore entered into a Five-Year Credit
Agreement dated as of October 5, 2005 (the   Existing Agreement  

WHEREAS, at the date hereof, there are no Loans outstanding under the Existing Agreement; and

WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend the Existing Agreement as set forth herein and to
restate the Existing Agreement in its entirety to read as set forth below;

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:

ARTICLE 1

Definitions 

Section 1.01 . Definitions.  The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:

Additional Lender   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.20(b).

Administrative Agent   means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. in its capacity as agent for the
Lenders hereunder, and its successors in such capacity.

Administrative Questionnaire   means, with respect to each Lender, an administrative
questionnaire in the form prepared by the Administrative Agent and submitted to the Administrative
Agent (with a copy to the Company) duly completed by such Lender.

Agreement   means the Existing Agreement, as amended by this Amended Agreement, and as the
same may be further amended from time to time after the date hereof.

Amended Agreement   means this Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of December 5,
2006.

Alternative Currency   means Euro or Sterling.

I-1

Alternative Currency Loan   means a Loan that is made in an Alternative Currency pursuant to
the applicable Notice of Borrowing.

Applicable Lending Office   means, with respect to any Lender, (i) in the case of its Base
Rate Loans, its Domestic Lending Office and (ii) in the case of its Euro-Currency Loans, its
Euro-Currency Lending Office.

Assignee   has the meaning set forth in Section 11.06(c).

Base Rate   means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the higher of (i) the Prime Rate for
such day and (ii) the sum of  1 / 2  of 1% plus the Federal Funds Rate for such day.

Base Rate Loan   means a Loan which bears interest at the Base Rate pursuant to the applicable
Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Interest Rate Election or the provisions of Section 2.06(a) or
Article 8.

Benefit Arrangement   means at any time an employee benefit plan within the meaning of Section
3(3) of ERISA which is not a Plan or a Multiemployer Plan and which is maintained or otherwise
contributed to by any member of the ERISA Group.

Borrower   means the Company or any Eligible Subsidiary, as the context may require, and their
respective successors, and   Borrowers   means all of the foregoing. When used in relation to any
Loan or Letter of Credit, references to   the Borrower   are to the particular Borrower to which such
Loan is or is to be made or at whose request such Letter of Credit is or is to be issued.

Borrowing   has the meaning set forth in Section 1.03.

Cash Collateralize   means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Issuing Lender, as
collateral for the applicable outstanding Letter of Credit, cash or deposit account balances
pursuant to documentation in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Issuing Lender in an
amount equal to 105% of the face amount of such Letter of Credit. Each Borrower hereby grants to
the Issuing Lender, for the benefit of the Issuing Lender and the Lenders, a security interest in
all of its right, title and interest (if any) in such cash, deposit accounts and all balances
therein and all proceeds of the foregoing. Cash collateral shall be maintained in blocked interest
bearing (to the extent available) deposit accounts at the Issuing Lender.

Commitment   means (i) with respect to each Lender, the amount of such Lender s Commitment, as
such amount is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on the Commitment Schedule, (ii) with
respect to any Additional Lender, the amount of the Commitment assumed by it pursuant to Section
2.20 and (iii)

2 

with respect to any Assignee, the amount of the transferor Lender s Commitment assigned to it
pursuant to Section 11.06(c), in each case as such amount may be changed from time to time pursuant
to Section 2.09, 2.20 or 11.06(c);  provided  that, if the context so requires, the term   Commitment  
means the obligation of a Lender to extend credit up to such amount to the Borrowers hereunder.

Commitment Schedule   means the Schedule attached hereto identified as such.

Company   means Johnson Controls, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation (  JCI  ), and its successors
 provided  that upon consummation of a Holding Company Reorganization in compliance with Section
5.09, the Holding Company shall thereafter be the Company for purposes hereof, except that any
reference made to the Company as of a specific date prior to any such Holding Company
Reorganization shall continue to refer to JCI.

Company s 2005 Form 10-K   means the Company s annual report on Form 10-K for 2005, as
amended, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.

Conduit   means a special purpose corporation which is engaged in making, purchasing or
otherwise investing in commercial loans in the ordinary course of its business.

Conduit Designation   has the meaning set forth in Section 11.06(f).

Consolidated Stockholders  Equity   means at any date the stockholders  or members  equity of
the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis as of such date in
accordance with GAAP;  provided  that, for purposes hereof, the consolidated stockholders  or
members  equity of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries shall be calculated without giving
effect to (i) the application of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 106 or (ii) the
cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment.

Consolidated Subsidiary   shall mean, as to any Person, each Subsidiary of such Person
(whether now existing or hereafter created or acquired) the financial statements of which shall be
(or should have been) consolidated with the financial statements of such Person in accordance with
GAAP.

Co-Syndication Agents   means Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank plc and Citibank, N.A. in
their respective capacities as Co-Syndication Agents in connection with the credit facility
provided hereunder.

3 

Credit Exposure   means, with respect to any Lender at any time, (i) the amount of its
Commitment (whether used or unused) at such time or (ii) if the Commitments have terminated in
their entirety, the sum of the aggregate Dollar Amount of its Loans at such time plus the aggregate
Dollar Amount of its Letter of Credit Liabilities at such time.

Debt   of any Person means at any date, without duplication, (i) all obligations of such
Person for borrowed money, (ii) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures,
notes or other similar instruments, (iii) all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred
purchase price of property, except trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of
business, (iv) all obligations of such Person as lessee which are capitalized in accordance with
GAAP, (v) all Debt (as defined in one of the other clauses of this definition) of others secured by
a Lien on any asset of such Person, whether or not such Debt is assumed by such Person;  provided 
that, for purposes of determining the amount of any Debt of the type described in this clause (v),
if recourse with respect to such Debt is limited to such asset, the amount of such Debt shall be
limited to the lesser of (A) the greater of (x) the book value of such asset or (y) the fair market
value of such asset or (B) the amount of such Debt and (vi) all Debt of others Guaranteed by such
Person (each such Guarantee to constitute Debt in an amount equal to the lesser of (A) the stated
maximum amount of such Guarantee, if any, or (B) the amount of such other Person s Debt Guaranteed
thereby);  provided  that Debt shall not include obligations in respect of letters of credit to
secure the performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for Debt), operating leases, statutory
obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature
incurred in the ordinary course of business and letters of credit issued in connection with the
Company s self-insurance programs for workman s compensation, product liability and general
liability.

Default   means any condition or event which constitutes an Event of Default or which with the
giving of notice or lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of
Default.

Dollar Amount   means, at any time:

(i) with respect to any Dollar-Denominated Loan, the principal amount thereof then
outstanding;

(ii) with respect to any Alternative Currency Loan, the principal amount thereof then
outstanding in the relevant Alternative Currency, converted to Dollars in accordance with
Section 2.16(a); and

(iii) with respect to any Letter of Credit Liabilities, (A) if denominated in
Dollars, the amount thereof and (B) if denominated in an

4 

Alternative Currency, the amount thereof converted to Dollars in accordance with
Section 2.16(b).

Dollar-Denominated Loan   means a Loan that is made in Dollars pursuant to the applicable
Notice of Borrowing.

Dollars   and the sign   $   mean lawful currency of the United States.

Domestic Business Day   means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which
commercial banks in New York City are authorized by law to close.

Domestic Lending Office   means, as to each Lender, its office located at its address set
forth in its Administrative Questionnaire (or identified in its Administrative Questionnaire as its
Domestic Lending Office) or such other office as such Lender may hereafter designate as its
Domestic Lending Office by notice to the Company and the Administrative Agent.

Effective Date   means the date on which this Amended Agreement becomes effective pursuant to
Section 3.01.

Election to Participate   means an Election to Participate substantially in the form of
Exhibit D hereto.

Election to Terminate   means an Election to Terminate substantially in the form of Exhibit E
hereto.

Eligible Subsidiary   means any Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiary of the Company as to
which an Election to Participate shall have been delivered to the Administrative Agent and as to
which an Election to Terminate shall not have been delivered to the Administrative Agent. Each
such Election to Participate and Election to Terminate shall be duly executed on behalf of such
Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiary and the Company in such number of copies as the Administrative
Agent may request. The delivery of an Election to Terminate shall not affect any obligation of an
Eligible Subsidiary theretofore incurred. The Administrative Agent shall promptly give notice to
the Lenders of the receipt of any Election to Participate or Election to Terminate.

Environmental Laws   means any and all federal, state, local and foreign statutes, laws,
regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants,
franchises, licenses, agreements or other governmental restrictions relating to the environment or
to emissions, discharges or releases of pollutants, contaminants, petroleum or petroleum products,
chemicals or industrial, toxic or hazardous substances or wastes into the environment including,
without limitation, ambient air, surface water, ground water, or land, or otherwise

5 

relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal,
transport or handling of pollutants, contaminants, petroleum or petroleum products, chemicals or
industrial, toxic or hazardous substances or wastes or the clean-up or other remediation thereof.

ERISA   means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any
successor statute.

ERISA Group   means the Company, any Consolidated Subsidiary and all members of a controlled
group of corporations or other entities and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated)
under common control which, together with the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary, are treated
as a single employer under Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code.

Euro   means the single currency of the Participating Member States.

Euro-Currency Business Day   means a Euro-Dollar Business Day, unless such term is used in
connection with an Alternative Currency Borrowing or Alternative Currency Loan, in which case such
day shall only be a Euro-Currency Business Day if (i) commercial banks are open for international
business (including dealings in deposits in such Alternative Currency) in London and (ii) if such
Alternative Currency is Euro, the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross settlement Express
Transfer (or  TARGET ) payment system is open for the settlement of payment in Euro.

Euro-Currency Lending Office   means, as to each Lender, its office, branch or affiliate
located at its address set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire (or identified in its
Administrative Questionnaire as its Euro-Currency Lending Office) or such other office, branch or
affiliate of such Lender as it may hereafter designate as its Euro-Currency Lending Office by
notice to the Company and the Administrative Agent;  provided  that any Lender may from time to time
by notice to the Company and the Administrative Agent designate separate Euro-Currency Lending
Offices for its Loans in different currencies, in which case all references herein to the
Euro-Currency Lending Office of such Lender shall be deemed to refer to any or all of such offices,
as the context may require.

Euro-Currency Loan   means either a Euro-Dollar Loan or an Alternative Currency Loan.

Euro-Currency Margin   means, at any date, the applicable rate per annum determined in
accordance with the Pricing Schedule.

Euro-Currency Rate   means a rate of interest determined pursuant to Section 2.06(b) on the
basis of a London Interbank Offered Rate.

6 

Euro-Currency Reserve Percentage   means, for any day, that percentage (expressed as a
decimal) which is in effect on such day, as prescribed by the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement for a member bank
of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with deposits exceeding five billion dollars in
respect of   Eurocurrency liabilities   (or in respect of any other category of liabilities which
includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate on Euro-Currency Loans is determined or
any category of extensions of credit or other assets which includes loans by a non-United States
office of any Lender to United States residents).

Euro-Dollar Business Day   means any Domestic Business Day on which commercial banks are open
for international business (including dealings in Dollar deposits) in London.

Euro-Dollar Loan   means a Dollar-Denominated Loan that bears interest at a Euro-Currency Rate
pursuant to the applicable Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Interest Rate Election.

Event of Default   has the meaning set forth in Section 6.01.

Existing Agreement   means the $1,600,000,000 Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of October
5, 2005 among the Company, the Eligible Subsidiaries referred to therein, the banks parties
thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent.

Facility Fee Rate   means, at any date, the applicable rate per annum determined in accordance
with the Pricing Schedule.

Federal Funds Rate   means, for any day, the rate per annum (rounded upward, if necessary, to
the nearest 1/100th of 1%) equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds
transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such
day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Domestic Business Day next
succeeding such day;  provided  that (i) if such day is not a Domestic Business Day, the Federal
Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Domestic
Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Domestic Business Day, and (ii) if no such rate
is so published on such next succeeding Domestic Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day
shall be the average rate quoted to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. on such day on such transactions as
determined by the Administrative Agent.

GAAP   shall mean generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time.

7 

Group of Loans   means, at any time, a group of Loans consisting of (i) all Loans to the same
Borrower which are Base Rate Loans at such time or (ii) all Loans which are Euro-Currency Loans in
the same currency to the same Borrower having the same Interest Period at such time,  provided  that,
if a Loan of any particular Lender is converted to or made as a Base Rate Loan pursuant to Article
8, such Loan shall be included in the same Group or Groups of Loans from time to time as it would
have been in if it had not been so converted or made.

Guarantee   by any Person means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person
directly or indirectly guaranteeing any Debt of any other Person and, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, any obligation, direct or indirect, contingent or otherwise, of such
Person (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Debt
(whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, by agreement to keep-well, to purchase
assets, goods, securities or services, to take-or-pay, or to maintain financial statement
conditions or otherwise) or (ii) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the
holder of such Debt of the payment thereof or to protect such holder against loss in respect
thereof (in whole or in part);  provided  that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for
collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. The term   Guarantee   used as a verb has
a corresponding meaning.

Holding Company   means a corporation or other legal entity organized under the laws of a
State of the United States which becomes the direct or indirect owner of equity interests of the
Company and its Subsidiaries pursuant to a Holding Company Reorganization.

Holding Company Reorganization   means a transaction or series of transactions pursuant to
which the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Holding Company.

Increased Commitments   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.20(a).

Indemnitee   has the meaning set forth in Section 11.03(b).

Interest Period   means, with respect to each Euro-Currency Loan, the period commencing on the
date of borrowing specified in the applicable Notice of Borrowing or on the date specified in an
applicable Notice of Interest Rate Election and ending one, two, three or six months thereafter (or
such other period of time as may at the time be mutually agreed by the Borrower and the Lenders),
as the Borrower may elect in such notice;  provided  that:

(a) any Interest Period which would otherwise end on a day which is not a
Euro-Currency Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Euro-Currency Business
Day unless such Euro-Currency

8 

Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period
shall end on the next preceding Euro-Currency Business Day; and

(b) any Interest Period which begins on the last Euro-Currency Business Day of a
calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the
calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Euro-Currency
Business Day of a calendar month; and

(c) any Interest Period applicable to any Loan of any Lender which would otherwise
end after the Termination Date for such Lender shall end on the Termination Date for such
Lender.

Internal Revenue Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor
statute.

Issuing Lender   means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and any other Lender that may agree to issue
letters of credit hereunder pursuant to an instrument in form satisfactory to the Company, such
Lender and the Administrative Agent, in its capacity as issuer of a Letter of Credit hereunder.
Unless the contest otherwise requires, any reference herein to a   Lender   includes each Issuing
Lender.

LC Termination Date   means, at any time, the fifth Business Day prior to the earliest
Termination Date then in effect as to any Lender.

Lender   means each Person listed in the Commitment Schedule, each Additional Lender or
Assignee which becomes a Lender pursuant to Section 2.20 or 11.06(c), and their respective
successors.

Lender Affiliate   means, (a) with respect to any Lender, (i) an Affiliate of such Lender or
(ii) any entity (whether a corporation, partnership, trust or otherwise) that is engaged in making,
purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the
ordinary course of its business and is administered or managed by such Lender or an Affiliate of
such Lender and (b) with respect to any Lender that is a fund which invests in bank loans and
similar extensions of credit, any other fund that invests in bank loans and similar extensions of
credit and is managed by the same investment advisor as such Lender or by an Affiliate of such
investment advisor. As used in this definition, (x)   Affiliate   means, with respect to a specified
Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or
is Controlled by or is under common Control with such specified Person and (y)   Control   means
possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management
or policies of a Person, whether through the

9 

ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise (and  Controlled  has a meaning
correlative thereto).

Letter of Credit   means a letter of credit to be issued hereunder by the Issuing Lender in
accordance with Section 2.19.

Letter of Credit Liabilities   means, for any Lender and at any time, such Lender s ratable
participation in the sum of (x) the amounts then owing by the Borrowers in respect of amounts drawn
under Letters of Credit and (y) the aggregate amount then available for drawing under all Letters
of Credit.

Lien   means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest
or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset. For the purposes of this Agreement, the
Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary shall be deemed to own subject to a Lien any asset which it
has acquired or holds subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale
agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such asset (other than an
operating lease).

Loan   means a loan made by a Lender pursuant to Section 2.01;  provided  that, if any such loan
or loans (or portions thereof) are combined or subdivided pursuant to a Notice of Interest Rate
Election, the term   Loan   shall refer to the combined principal amount resulting from such
combination or to each of the separate principal amounts resulting from such subdivision, as the
case may be.

London Interbank Offered Rate   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.06(b).

London Office   means the office of the Administrative Agent identified on the signature pages
hereof as its London office, or such other office of the Administrative Agent as it may specify for
such purpose by notice to the other parties hereto.

Material Debt   means Debt (other than the Loans) of the Company and/or one or more of its
Consolidated Subsidiaries, arising in one or more related or unrelated transactions, in an
aggregate principal amount exceeding $100,000,000.

Material Plan   means at any time a Plan or Plans having aggregate Unfunded Liabilities in
excess of $100,000,000.

Multiemployer Plan   means at any time an employee pension benefit plan within the meaning of
Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA to which any member of the ERISA Group is then making or accruing an
obligation to make contributions

10 

or has within the preceding five plan years made contributions, including for these purposes
any Person which ceased to be a member of the ERISA Group during such five year period.

New York Office   means the office of the Administrative Agent identified on the signature
pages hereof as its New York office, or such other office of the Administrative Agent as it may
specify for such purpose by notice to the other parties hereto.

Notes   means promissory notes of a Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto,
evidencing the obligation of such Borrower to repay the Loans made to it, and   Note   means any one
of such promissory notes issued hereunder.

Notice of Borrowing   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.02.

Notice of Interest Rate Election   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.15.

Notice of Issuance   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.19(b).

Outstanding Amount   means, as to any Lender at any time, the sum of (i) the aggregate Dollar
Amount of Loans made by it outstanding at such time plus (ii) the aggregate Dollar Amount of its
Letter of Credit Liabilities at such time.

Parent   means, with respect to any Lender, any Person controlling such Lender.

Participant   has the meaning set forth in Section 11.06(b).

Participating Member States   means those members of the European Union from time to time
which adopt a single, shared currency.

PBGC   means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any entity succeeding to any or all
of its functions under ERISA.

Person   means an individual, a corporation, a limited liability company, a partnership, an
association, a trust, a limited liability company or any other entity or organization, including a
government or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof.

Plan   means at any time an employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan)
which is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412
of the Internal Revenue Code and either (i) is maintained, or contributed to, by any member of the
ERISA Group for

11 

employees of any member of the ERISA Group or (ii) has at any time within the preceding five
years been maintained, or contributed to, by any Person which was at such time a member of the
ERISA Group for employees of any Person which was at such time a member of the ERISA Group.

Pricing Schedule   means the Schedule attached hereto identified as such.

Prime Rate   means the rate of interest publicly announced by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. in New
York City from time to time as its Prime Rate.

Quarterly Payment Date   means each March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31.

Regulation U   means Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as
in effect from time to time.

Reimbursement Obligation   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.19(d).

Required Lenders   means at any time Lenders having more than 50% of the aggregate amount of
the Credit Exposures at such time.

Spot Rate   means, for any Alternative Currency on any day, the average of the Administrative
Agent s spot buying and selling rates for the exchange of such Alternative Currency and Dollars as
of approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) on such day.

Sterling   means the lawful currency of the United Kingdom.

Sterling Loan   means a Loan that is made in Sterling pursuant to the applicable Notice of
Borrowing.

Stop Issuance Notice   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.19(g).

Subsidiary   means, with respect to any Person, any corporation, association or other business
entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of stock (or comparable ownership
interests) entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election
of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by that Person or one or more of the other Subsidiaries of the Person or a combination
thereof.

Termination Date   means, as to each Lender, December 5 , 2011 or, in the case of any
Lender, such later date to which the Commitment of such Lender shall have been extended pursuant to
Section 2.01(b) (or, if any of the foregoing

12 

days is not a Euro-Dollar Business Day, the next preceding Euro-Dollar Business Day).

Total Outstanding Amount   means, at any time, the aggregate Dollar Amount of all Loans
outstanding at such time plus the aggregate Dollar Amount of the Letter of Credit Liabilities of
all Lenders at such time.

Type   refers to the determination whether a loan is a Base Rate Loan or a Euro-Dollar Loan.

Unfunded Liabilities   means, with respect to any Plan at any time, the amount (if any) by
which (i) the present value of all benefits under such Plan exceeds (ii) the fair market value of
all Plan assets allocable to such benefits (excluding any accrued but unpaid contributions), all
determined as of the then most recent valuation date for such Plan, but only to the extent that
such excess represents a potential liability of a member of the ERISA Group to the PBGC or any
other Person under Title IV of ERISA.

United States   means the United States of America, including the States and the District of
Columbia, but excluding its territories and possessions.

Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiary   means any Consolidated Subsidiary all of the shares of
capital stock or other ownership interests of which (except directors  qualifying shares) are at
the time directly or indirectly owned by the Company.

Section 1.02 . Accounting Terms and Determinations.  Unless otherwise specified herein, all
accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted, all accounting determinations hereunder shall be
made, and all financial statements required to be delivered hereunder shall be prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time, applied on
a basis consistent (except for changes concurred in by the Company s independent public
accountants) with the most recent audited consolidated financial statements of the Company and its
Consolidated Subsidiaries delivered to the Lenders;  provided  that, if the Company notifies the
Administrative Agent that the Company wishes to amend any covenant in Article 5 to eliminate the
effect of any change in generally accepted accounting principles on the operation of such covenant
(or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Company that the Required Lenders wish to amend
Article 5 for such purpose), then the Company s compliance with such covenant shall be determined
on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles in effect immediately before the relevant
change in generally accepted accounting principles became effective, until either such notice is
withdrawn or such covenant is amended in a manner satisfactory to the Company and the Required
Lenders.

13 

Section 1.03 . Types of Loans and Borrowings.  The term   Borrowing   denotes the aggregation of
Loans of one or more Lenders to be made to a single Borrower pursuant to Article 2 on the same
date, all of which Loans are of the same Type and currency and, in the case of Euro-Currency Loans,
have the same initial Interest Period. Identification of a Borrowing by Type ( e.g. , a
 Euro-Currency Borrowing ) indicates that such Borrowing is comprised of Loans of such Type.

ARTICLE 2

The Credits 

Section 2.01 . Commitments to Lend. 

(a)  Committed Loans . Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions set forth in
this Agreement, to make loans (which may be denominated in Dollars or an Alternative Currency as
the Borrower elects pursuant to Section 2.02) to the Borrowers pursuant to this Section 2.01(a)
from time to time prior to its Termination Date in amounts such that (i) the Outstanding Amount of
such Lender shall at no time exceed the amount of such Lender s Commitment and (ii) the Total
Outstanding Amount shall at no time exceed the aggregate amount of the Commitments. Within the
foregoing limits, any Borrower may borrow under this Section, repay or, to the extent permitted by
Section 2.10, prepay Loans and reborrow at any time prior to the Termination Date for any Lender
under this Section 2.01.

(b)  Minimum Borrowings . Each Borrowing under this Section 2.01 shall be in an aggregate
Dollar Amount of not less than $10,000,000 (except that any such Borrowing may be in the aggregate
Dollar Amount of the available Commitments) and shall be made from the several Lenders ratably in
proportion to their respective Commitments.

(c)  Extension of Commitments.  (i) Each Lender s Commitment may be extended, if at the time no
Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, in the manner set forth in this subsection (c), on
a single occasion on any anniversary of the date hereof (the   Extension Date  ) for a period of one
year after the date on which the Commitment of such Lender would have been terminated. If the
Company wishes to request an extension of each Lender s Commitment, it shall give notice to that
effect to the Administrative Agent not less than 45 days and not more than 90 days prior to the
Extension Date then in effect, whereupon the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each of the
Lenders of such request. Each Lender will use its best efforts to respond to such request, whether
affirmatively or negatively, as it may elect in its discretion, within 30 days of such request to
the Administrative Agent. If any Lender shall not have responded affirmatively within such 30-day
period, such Lender shall be deemed to have

14 

rejected the Company s proposal to extend its Commitment, and only the Commitments of those
Lenders which have responded affirmatively shall be extended, subject to receipt by the
Administrative Agent of counterparts of an Extension Agreement in substantially the form of Exhibit
I hereto (the   Extension Agreement  ) duly completed and signed by the Company, the Administrative
Agent and all of the Lenders which have responded affirmatively. The Administrative Agent shall
provide to the Company, no later than 10 days prior to the Extension Date for any such request, a
list of the Lenders which have responded affirmatively. The Extension Agreement shall be executed
and delivered no later than five days prior to the Extension Date, and no extension of the
Commitments pursuant to this subsection (c) shall be legally binding on any party hereto unless and
until such Extension Agreement is so executed and delivered by Lenders having at least 51% of the
aggregate amount of the Commitments.

(ii) If any Lender rejects, or is deemed to have rejected, the Borrower s proposal to extend
its Commitment (A) this Agreement shall terminate on the Termination Date with respect to such
Lender, (B) the Borrower shall pay to such Lender on the Termination Date any amounts due and
payable to such Lender on such date and (C) the Borrower may, if it so elects, designate a Person
not theretofore a Lender and acceptable to the Administrative Agent to become a Lender, or agree
with an existing Lender that such Lender s Commitment shall be increased,  provided  that the
aggregate amount of the Commitments following any designation or agreement may not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Commitments as in effect immediately prior to the relevant request. Upon
execution and delivery by the Borrower and such replacement Lender or other Person of an instrument
of assumption in form and amount satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and execution and
delivery of the Extension Agreement pursuant to subsection (c)(i), such existing Lender shall have
a Commitment as therein set forth or such other Person shall become a Lender with a Commitment as
therein set forth and all the rights and obligations of a Lender with such a Commitment hereunder.

(iii) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of the effectiveness of each
extension of the Commitments pursuant to this subsection (c).

Section 2.02 . Notice of Borrowing.  The Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent notice
(a   Notice of Borrowing  ) (1) at its New York Office not later than 10:30 A.M. (New York City
time) on (y) the date of each Base Rate Borrowing and (z) the third Euro-Dollar Business Day before
each Euro-Dollar Borrowing and (2) at its New York Office and its London Office not later than
10:30 A.M. (London time) on the third Euro-Currency Business Day before each Borrowing of
Alternative Currency Loans, specifying:

15 

(i) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Domestic Business Day in the case of
a Base Rate Borrowing or a Euro-Currency Business Day in the case of a Euro-Currency
Borrowing;

(ii) the currency and aggregate amount (in such currency) of such Borrowing;

(iii) in the case of a Borrowing of Dollar-Denominated Loans, whether such Loans are
to be Base Rate Loans or Euro-Dollar Loans; and

(iv) in the case of a Euro-Currency Borrowing, the duration of the initial Interest
Period applicable thereto, subject to the provisions of the definition of Interest Period.

Section 2.03 . Notice to Lenders; Funding of Loans. 

(a) Upon receipt of a Notice of Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each
Lender of the contents thereof and of such Lender s share of such Borrowing and such Notice of
Borrowing shall not thereafter be revocable by the Borrower.

(b) On the date of each Borrowing, each Lender participating therein shall make available its
ratable share of such Borrowing:

(A) if such Borrowing is to be made in Dollars, not later than 2:00 P.M. (New York
City time), in Federal or other funds immediately available in New York City, to the
Administrative Agent at its New York Office; or

(B) if such Borrowing is to be made in an Alternative Currency, in such Alternative
Currency (in such funds as may then be customary for the settlement of international
transactions in such Alternative Currency) to the account of the Administrative Agent at
its London Office.

Unless the Administrative Agent determines that any applicable condition specified in Article 3 has
not been satisfied or waived in accordance with Section 11.05, the Administrative Agent will make
the funds so received from the Lenders available to the Borrower as directed by the Borrower.

(c) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received at its New York Office notice from a
Lender prior to the date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the
Administrative Agent such Lender s share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume
that such Lender has made such share available to the Administrative Agent on the date of such

16 

Borrowing in accordance with subsection (b) of this Section 2.03 and the Administrative Agent
may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding
amount. If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such share available to the
Administrative Agent, such Lender and, if such Lender shall not have paid such amount to the
Administrative Agent within two Domestic Business Days of the Administrative Agent s demand
therefor, the Borrower severally agree to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand
such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is
made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Administrative Agent, at
the Federal Funds Rate (if such Borrowing is in Dollars) or the applicable London Interbank Offered
Rate (if such Borrowing is in an Alternative Currency). If such Lender shall repay to the
Administrative Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such
Lender s Loan included in such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.

(d) The failure of any Lender to make any Loan to be made by it on the date specified therefor
shall not relieve any other Lender of any obligation to make a Loan on such date.

Section 2.04 . Notes. 

(a) Each Lender may, by notice to the Company and the Agent, request (i) that its Loans to any
Borrower be evidenced by a single Note of such Borrower payable to the order of such Lender for the
account of its Applicable Lending Office in an amount equal to the aggregate unpaid principal
amount of such Lender s Loans to such Borrower or (ii) that its Loans of a particular Type or
currency to any Borrower be evidenced by a separate Note of such Borrower in an amount equal to the
aggregate unpaid principal amount of such Loans. Each such Note shall be in substantially the form
of Exhibit A hereto with appropriate modifications to reflect the fact that it evidences solely
Loans of the relevant Type or currency. Each reference in this Agreement to the  Notes  of such
Lender shall be deemed to refer to and include any or all of such Notes, as the context may
require.

(b) Each Lender shall record the date, amount, Type, currency and maturity of each Loan made
by it and the date and amount of each payment of principal made with respect thereto, and may, if
such Lender so elects in connection with any transfer or enforcement of its Note, endorse on the
schedule forming a part thereof appropriate notations to evidence the foregoing information with
respect to each such Loan then outstanding;  provided  that the failure of any Lender to make any
such recordation or endorsement shall not affect the obligations of any Borrower hereunder or under
the Notes. Each Lender is hereby irrevocably authorized by the Borrowers so to endorse its Notes
and to attach to

17 

and make a part of any Note a continuation of any such schedule as and when required.

Section 2.05.  Maturity of Loans.  Each Loan of each Lender shall mature, and the principal
amount thereof shall be due and payable (together with interest accrued thereon), on the
Termination Date of such Lender.

Section 2.06 . Interest Rates. 

(a) Each Base Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof, for
each day from the date such Loan is made until it becomes due, at a rate per annum equal to the
Base Rate for each such day. Such interest shall be payable at maturity, quarterly in arrears on
each Quarterly Payment Date prior to maturity and, with respect to the principal amount of any Base
Rate Loan converted to a Euro-Dollar Loan, on the date such amount is so converted. Any overdue
principal of or interest on any Base Rate Loan shall bear interest, payable on demand, for each day
from and including the date payment thereof was due to but excluding the date of actual payment, at
a rate per annum equal to the sum of 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to Base Rate Loans for
each such day.

(b) Each Euro-Currency Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof,
for each day during each Interest Period applicable thereto, at a rate per annum equal to the sum
of the Euro-Currency Margin for such day plus the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate for such
Interest Period. Such interest shall be payable for each Interest Period on the last day thereof
and, if such Interest Period is longer than three months, at intervals of three months after the
first day thereof.

The   London Interbank Offered Rate   applicable to any Euro-Currency Loan for any Interest
Period means the rate appearing on the Screen at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Rate
Fixing Date as the rate for deposits in Dollars or the relevant Alternative Currency with a
maturity comparable to such Interest Period. If no rate appears on the Screen for the necessary
currency and period, then the  London Interbank Offered Rate  with respect to such Euro-Currency
Loan for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which deposits in that currency for value on the
first day of such Interest Period with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by
the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in the London interbank market at
approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Rate Fixing Date.

The   Screen   means (i) with respect to Dollar-Denominated Loans, Telerate Page 3750 and (ii)
with respect to Alternative Currency Loans, the Telerate page selected by the Administrative Agent
that displays rates for inter-bank deposits in the appropriate Alternative Currency. The
Administrative Agent may nominate an alternative source of screen rates if these pages are replaced
by

18 

others which display rates for interbank deposits offered by leading banks in London.

Rate Fixing Date   means the second Euro-Currency Business Day before the first day of such
Interest Period.

(c) Any overdue principal of or interest on any Euro-Currency Loan shall bear interest,
payable on demand, for each day from and including the date payment thereof was due to but
excluding the date of actual payment, at a rate per annum equal to the sum of 2% plus the higher of
(i) the sum of the Euro-Currency Margin for such day plus the London Interbank Offered Rate
applicable to such Loan on the day before such payment was due and (ii) the Euro-Currency Margin
for such day plus the quotient obtained (rounded upward, if necessary, to the next higher 1/100 of
1%) by dividing (x) the average (rounded upward, if necessary, to the next higher 1/16 of 1%) of
the respective rates per annum at which one day (or, if such amount due remains unpaid more than
three Euro-Currency Business Days, then for such other period of time not longer than six months as
the Administrative Agent may select) deposits in the relevant currency in an amount approximately
equal to such overdue payment are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative
Agent in the London interbank market for the applicable period determined as provided above by (y)
1.00 minus the Euro-Currency Reserve Percentage.

(d) The Administrative Agent shall determine each interest rate applicable to the Loans
hereunder. The Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the Lenders of
each rate of interest so determined, and its determination thereof shall be conclusive in the
absence of manifest error.

Section 2.07 . Fees.  (a) The Company shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of
the Lenders ratably a facility fee in Dollars at the Facility Fee Rate (determined daily in
accordance with the Pricing Schedule) on the daily aggregate amount of the Credit Exposures. Such
facility fee shall accrue from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the date on which
the Credit Exposures are reduced to zero.

(b) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent (i) for the account of the Lenders
ratably a letter of credit fee in Dollars accruing daily on the aggregate Dollar Amount of all
outstanding Letters of Credit at the Letter of Credit Fee Rate (determined daily in accordance with
the Pricing Schedule) and (ii) for the account of each Issuing Lender a letter of credit fronting
fee accruing daily on the aggregate Dollar Amount of all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing
Lender at a rate per annum mutually agreed from time to time by the Company and such Issuing
Lender.

19 

(c) Accrued fees under this Section shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Quarterly
Date and on the date of termination of the Commitments in their entirety (and, if later, the date
the Credit Exposures are reduced to zero).

Section 2.08.  Optional Termination or Reduction of Commitments.  The Company may, upon at
least three Domestic Business Days  notice to the Administrative Agent at its New York Office, (i)
terminate the Commitments at any time, if no Loans or Letter of Credit Liabilities are outstanding
at such time or (ii) ratably reduce from time to time by an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any
larger multiple thereof, the aggregate amount of the Commitments in excess of the Total Outstanding
Amount. Promptly after receiving a notice pursuant to this Section, the Administrative Agent shall
notify each Lender of the contents thereof.

Section 2.09.  Mandatory Termination of Commitments.  The Commitment of each Lender shall
terminate on its Termination Date.

Section 2.10.  Optional Prepayments. 

(a) Subject in the case of Euro-Currency Loans to Section 2.12, the Borrower may upon notice
to the Administrative Agent (i) at its New York Office not later than 10:30 A.M. (New York City
time) on the Domestic Business Day preceding the date of prepayment of any Group of Base Rate Loans
or the third Euro-Dollar Business Day before the date of prepayment of any Group of Euro-Dollar
Loans, prepay any such Group or (ii) at its London Office not later than 11:00 A.M. (London time)
on the third Euro-Currency Business Day before the date of prepayment, prepay any Group of
Alternative Currency Loans, in each case in whole at any time, or from time to time in part in
Dollar Amounts aggregating not less than $10,000,000, by paying the principal amount to be prepaid
together with accrued interest thereon to but not including the date of prepayment. Each such
optional prepayment shall be applied to prepay ratably the Loans of the several Lenders included in
such Group of Loans.

(b) Upon receipt of a notice of prepayment pursuant to this Section, the Administrative Agent
shall promptly notify each Lender of the contents thereof and of such Lender s ratable share of
such prepayment and once notice is so given to the Lenders, the Borrower s notice of prepayment
shall not thereafter be revocable by the Borrower.

Section 2.11.  General Provisions as to Payments. 

(a) The Borrowers shall make each payment of principal of, and interest on, the
Dollar-Denominated Loans, of Letter of Credit Liabilities denominated in Dollars and of fees
hereunder not later than 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date when due, in Federal or other
funds immediately available in New York

20 

City, without set-off, counterclaim or other deduction, to the Administrative Agent at its New
York Office. The Borrowers shall make each payment of principal of, and interest on, the
Alternative Currency Loans and of Letter of Credit Liabilities denominated in an Alternative
Currency in the relevant Alternative Currency in such funds as may then be customary for the
settlement of international transactions in such Alternative Currency, without set-off,
counterclaim or other deduction, to the Administrative Agent at its London Office. The
Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its ratable share of each such payment
received by the Administrative Agent for the respective accounts of the Lenders. Whenever any
payment of principal of, or interest on, the Base Rate Loans or of fees shall be due on a day which
is not a Domestic Business Day, the date for payment thereof shall be extended to the next
succeeding Domestic Business Day. Whenever any payment of principal of, or interest on, the
Euro-Currency Loans shall be due on a day which is not a Euro-Currency Business Day, the date for
payment thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding Euro-Currency Business Day unless such
Euro-Currency Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case the date for payment
thereof shall be the next preceding Euro-Currency Business Day. If the date for any payment of
principal is extended by operation of law or otherwise, interest thereon shall be payable for such
extended time.

(b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the
date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such
payment in full, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in
full to the Administrative Agent on such date and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon
such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the
amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent that the Borrower shall not have so made such
payment, each Lender shall repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such amount
distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount
is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Administrative
Agent, at (i) the Federal Funds Rate (if such amount was distributed in Dollars) or (ii) the rate
per annum at which one-day deposits in the relevant currency are offered by the principal London
office of the Administrative Agent in the London interbank market for such day (if such amount was
distributed in an Alternative Currency).

Section 2.12 . Funding Losses.  If the Borrower makes any payment of principal with respect to
any Euro-Currency Loan or any Euro-Dollar Loan is converted to a Base Rate Loan (pursuant to
Article 2, 6 or 8 or otherwise) on any day other than the last day of an Interest Period applicable
thereto, or the last day of an applicable period fixed pursuant to Section 2.06(c), or if the
Borrower fails to borrow, prepay, convert or continue any Euro-Currency Loans after notice has

21 

been given to any Lender in accordance with Section 2.03(a), 2.10(b), or 2.15, the Borrower
shall reimburse each Lender within 15 days after demand for any resulting loss or expense
reasonably incurred by it (or by an existing or prospective Participant in the related Loan) in
obtaining, liquidating or employing deposits or other funds from third parties, but excluding loss
of margin for the period after any such payment or conversion or failure to borrow, prepay, convert
or continue;  provided  that such Lender shall have delivered to the Borrower a certificate
specifying in reasonable detail the calculation of, and the reasons for, the amount of such loss or
expense, which certificate shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.

Section 2.13.  Computation of Interest and Fees.  Interest on Euro-Currency Loans denominated
in Sterling and interest calculated on the basis of the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis
of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year) and paid for the actual number of days elapsed
(including the first day but excluding the last day). All other interest and fees shall be computed
on the basis of a year of 360 days and paid for the actual number of days elapsed (including the
first day but excluding the last day).

Section 2.14.  Regulation D Compensation.  Each Lender may require the Borrower to pay,
contemporaneously with each payment of interest on the Euro-Currency Loans, additional interest on
the related Euro-Currency Loan of such Lender at a rate per annum determined by such Lender up to
but not exceeding the excess of (i) (A) the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate divided by (B)
one  minus  the Euro-Currency Reserve Percentage over (ii) the applicable London Interbank Offered
Rate. Any Lender wishing to require payment of such additional interest (x) shall so notify the
Borrower and the Administrative Agent, in which case such additional interest on the Euro-Currency
Loans of such Lender shall be payable to such Lender at the place indicated in such notice with
respect to each Interest Period commencing at least three Euro-Currency Business Days after the
giving of such notice, and (y) shall notify the Borrower at least five Euro-Currency Business Days
prior to each date on which interest is payable on the Euro-Currency Loans of the amount then due
it under this Section.

Section 2.15.  Method of Electing Interest Rates. 

(a) The Dollar-Denominated Loans included in each Borrowing shall initially be of the Type
specified by the Borrower in the applicable Notice of Borrowing. Thereafter, the Borrower may from
time to time elect to change or continue the Type of each such Group of Loans (subject to
subsection 2.15(d) of this Section and the provisions of Article 8), as follows:

(i) if such Loans are Base Rate Loans, the Borrower may elect to convert such Loans
to Euro-Dollar Loans as of any Euro-Dollar Business Day; and

22 

(ii) if such Loans are Euro-Dollar Loans, the Borrower may elect to convert such
Loans to Base Rate Loans or elect to continue such Loans as Euro-Dollar Loans for an
additional Interest Period, subject to Section 2.12 if any such conversion is effective on
any day other than the last day of an Interest Period applicable to such Loans.

Each such election shall be made by delivering a notice (a   Notice of Interest Rate Election  )
to the Administrative Agent at its New York Office not later than 10:30 A.M. (New York City time)
on the third Euro-Dollar Business Day before the conversion or continuation selected in such notice
is to be effective. A Notice of Interest Rate Election may, if it so specifies, apply to only a
portion of the aggregate principal amount of the relevant Group of Loans;  provided  that (i) such
portion is allocated ratably among the Loans comprising such Group and (ii) the portion to which
such Notice applies, and the remaining portion to which it does not apply, are each at least
$10,000,000 (unless such portion is comprised of Base Rate Loans). If no such notice is timely
received before the end of an Interest Period for any Group of Euro-Dollar Loans, the Borrower
shall be deemed to have elected that such Group of Loans be converted to Base Rate Loans at the end
of such Interest Period.

(b) Each Notice of Interest Rate Election shall specify:

(i) the Group of Loans (or portion thereof) to which such notice applies;

(ii) the date on which the conversion or continuation selected in such notice is to
be effective, which shall comply with the applicable clause of Section 2.15(a) above;

(iii) if the Loans comprising such Group are to be converted, the new Type of Loans
and, if the Loans resulting from such conversion are to be Euro-Dollar Loans, the duration
of the next succeeding Interest Period applicable thereto; and

(iv) if such Loans are to be continued as Euro-Dollar Loans for an additional
Interest Period, the duration of such additional Interest Period.

Each Interest Period specified in a Notice of Interest Rate Election shall comply with the
provisions of the definition of Interest Period.

(c) Promptly after receiving a Notice of Interest Rate Election from the Borrower pursuant to
subsection (a) above, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the contents thereof and
such notice shall not thereafter be revocable by the Borrower.

23 

(d) The Borrower shall not be entitled to elect to convert any Loans to, or continue any Loans
for an additional Interest Period as, Euro-Dollar Loans if (i) the aggregate Dollar Amount of any
Group of Euro-Dollar Loans created or continued as a result of such election would be less than
$10,000,000 or (ii) a Default shall have occurred and be continuing when the Borrower delivers
notice of such election to the Administrative Agent.

(e) The initial Interest Period for each Borrowing of Alternative Currency Loans shall be
specified by the Borrower in the applicable Notice of Borrowing. The Borrower may specify the
duration of each subsequent Interest Period applicable to such Group of Loans by delivering to the
Administrative Agent at its London Office not later than 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the third
Euro-Currency Business Day before the end of the immediately preceding Interest Period, a notice
specifying the Group of Loans to which such notice applies and the duration of such subsequent
Interest Period (which shall comply with the provisions of the definition of Interest Period).
Such notice may, if it so specifies, apply to only a portion of the aggregate principal amount of
the relevant Group of Loans;  provided  that (i) such portion is allocated ratably among the Loans
comprising such Group and (ii) the Dollar Amounts of the portion to which such notice applies, and
the remaining portion to which it does not apply, are each at least $10,000,000. If no such notice
is timely received by the Administrative Agent before the end of any applicable Interest Period,
the Borrower shall be deemed to have elected that the subsequent Interest Period for such Group of
Loans shall have a duration of one month (subject to the provisions of the definition of Interest
Period).

Section 2.16 . Determining Dollar Amounts; Related Mandatory Prepayments. 

(a) The Administrative Agent shall determine the Dollar Amount of each Alternative Currency
Loan as of the first day of each Interest Period applicable thereto and, in the case of any such
Interest Period of more than three months, at three-month intervals after the first day thereof,
and shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of each Dollar Amount so determined by it.
Each such determination shall be based on the Spot Rate (i) on the date of the related Notice of
Borrowing for purposes of the initial such determination for any Alternative Currency Loan and (ii)
on the fourth Euro-Currency Business Day prior to the date as of which such Dollar Amount is to be
determined, for purposes of any subsequent determination.

(b) The Administrative Agent shall determine the Dollar Amount of the Letter of Credit
Liabilities related to each Letter of Credit as of the date of issuance thereof and at three-month
intervals after the date of issuance thereof. Each such determination shall be based on the Spot
Rate (i) on the date of the related Notice of Issuance, in the case of the initial determination in
respect of any

24 

Letter of Credit and (ii) on the fourth Euro-Currency Business Day prior to the date as of
which such Dollar Amount is to be determined, in the case of any subsequent determination with
respect to an outstanding Letter of Credit.

(c) Each determination of a Dollar Amount pursuant to this Section shall be conclusive in the
absence of manifest error. If after giving effect to any such determination of a Dollar Amount,
the Total Outstanding Amount exceeds the aggregate amount of the Commitments, the Borrowers shall
within five Euro-Currency Business Days prepay outstanding Loans (as selected by the Company and
notified to the Lenders through the Administrative Agent not less than three Euro-Currency Business
Days prior to the date of prepayment) or take other action to the extent necessary to eliminate any
such excess.

Section 2.17 . Additional Reserve Costs. 

(a) If and so long as any Lender is required to make special deposits with the Bank of
England, to maintain reserve asset ratios or to pay fees, in each case in respect of such Lender s
Euro-Currency Loans in any Alternative Currency, such Lender may require the Borrower to pay,
contemporaneously with each payment of interest on each of such Loans, additional interest on such
Loan at a rate per annum equal to the Mandatory Costs Rate calculated in accordance with the
formula and in the manner set forth in Exhibit H hereto.

(b) If and so long as any Lender is required to comply with reserve assets, liquidity, cash
margin or other requirements of any monetary or other authority (including any such requirement
imposed by the European Central Bank or the European System of Central Banks, but excluding
requirements reflected in an applicable Euro-Currency Reserve Percentage or Mandatory Costs Rate)
in respect of any of such Lender s Euro-Currency Loans in any Alternative Currency, such Lender may
require the Borrower to pay, contemporaneously with each payment of interest on each of such
Lender s Euro-Currency Loans subject to such requirements, additional interest on such Loan at a
rate per annum specified by such Lender to be the cost to such Lender of complying with such
requirements in relation to such Loan.

(c) Any additional interest owed pursuant to subsection (a) or (b) above shall be determined
by the relevant Lender, which determination shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error,
and notified to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) at least five Euro-Currency
Business Days before each date on which interest is payable for the relevant Loan, and such
additional interest so notified to the Borrower by such Lender shall be payable to the
Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender on each date on which interest is payable for
such Loan.

25 

Section 2.18.  Judgment Currency.  If, under any applicable law and whether pursuant to a
judgment being made or registered against any Borrower or for any other reason, any payment under
or in connection with this Agreement is made or satisfied in a currency (the   Other Currency  )
other than that in which the relevant payment is due (the   Required Currency  ) then, to the extent
that the payment (when converted into the Required Currency at the rate of exchange on the date of
payment or, if it is not practicable for the party entitled thereto (the   Payee  ) to purchase the
Required Currency with the Other Currency on the date of payment, at the rate of exchange as soon
thereafter as it is practicable for it to do so) actually received by the Payee falls short of the
amount due under the terms of this Agreement, such Borrower shall, to the extent permitted by law,
as a separate and independent obligation, indemnify and hold harmless the Payee against the amount
of such short-fall. For the purpose of this Section,   rate of exchange   means the rate at which
the Payee is able on the relevant date to purchase the Required Currency with the Other Currency
and shall take into account any premium and other costs of exchange.

Section 2.19 . Letters of Credit.  (a) Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each
Issuing Lender agrees to issue Letters of Credit hereunder denominated in Dollars or in an
Alternative Currency from time to time upon the request of any Borrower;  provided  that, immediately
after each Letter of Credit is issued (i) the Total Outstanding Amount shall not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Commitments and (ii) the aggregate Dollar Amount of Letter of Credit
Liabilities shall not exceed $200,000,000. Upon the date of issuance by the Issuing Lender of a
Letter of Credit, the Issuing Lender shall be deemed, without further action by any party hereto,
to have sold to each Lender, and each Lender shall be deemed, without further action by any party
hereto, to have purchased from the Issuing Lender, a participation in such Letter of Credit and the
related Letter of Credit Liabilities in the proportion their respective Commitments bear to the
aggregate Commitments.

(b) The Borrower shall give the Issuing Lender notice at least five Euro-Currency Business
Days prior to the requested issuance of a Letter of Credit specifying the date such Letter of
Credit is to be issued, and describing the terms of such Letter of Credit and the nature of the
transactions to be supported thereby (such notice, including any such notice given in connection
with the extension , renewal or amendment of a Letter of Credit, a   Notice of Issuance  ). Upon
receipt of a Notice of Issuance, the Issuing Lender shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent,
and the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the contents thereof and of the
amount of such Lender s participation in such Letter of Credit. The issuance by the Issuing Lender
of each Letter of Credit shall, in addition to the conditions precedent set forth in Article 3, be
subject to the conditions precedent that (i) such Letter of Credit shall be in such form and
contain such terms as shall be satisfactory to the Issuing Lender and the Borrower

26 

shall have executed and delivered such other instruments and agreements relating to such
Letter of Credit as the Issuing Lender shall have reasonably requested and (ii) no Stop Issuance
Notice shall be in effect. The Borrower shall also pay to the Issuing Lender for its own account
issuance, drawing, amendment and extension charges in the amounts and at the times as agreed
between the Borrower and the Issuing Lender.

(c) The extension, renewal or amendment of any Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be an
issuance of such Letter of Credit, and if any Letter of Credit contains a provision pursuant to
which it is deemed to be extended unless notice of termination is given by the Issuing Lender, the
Issuing Lender shall timely give such notice of termination unless it has theretofore timely
received a Notice of Issuance and the other conditions to issuance of a Letter of Credit have also
theretofore been met with respect to such extension. Each Letter of Credit shall expire at or
before the close of business on the date that is one year after such Letter of Credit is issued
(or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof, one year after such renewal or extension);
 provided  that (i) a Letter of Credit may contain a provision pursuant to which it is deemed to be
extended on an annual basis unless notice of termination is given by the Issuing Bank and (ii) in
no event will a Letter of Credit expire (including pursuant to a renewal or extension thereof) on a
date later than the LC Termination Date.

(d) Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit of any notice of a drawing under
such Letter of Credit, the Issuing Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent and the
Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and each other Lender as to the amount to
be paid as a result of such demand or drawing and the payment date. The Borrower shall be
irrevocably and unconditionally obligated forthwith to reimburse the Issuing Lender for any amounts
paid by the Issuing Lender upon any drawing under any Letter of Credit in the currency of such
payment (a   Reimbursement Obligation  ) without presentment, demand, protest or other formalities of
any kind. All such amounts paid by the Issuing Lender and remaining unpaid by the Borrower shall
bear interest, payable on demand, for each day from the date of payment under the Letter of Credit
until paid at a rate per annum equal to the sum of 2% plus (i) if such amount is denominated in
Dollars, the Base Rate for such day and (ii) if such amount is denominated in an Alternative
Currency, the sum of the Euro-Currency Margin plus the rate per annum at which one-day deposits in
the relevant currency are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in the
London interbank market for such day. In addition, each Lender will pay to the Administrative
Agent, for the account of the Issuing Lender, immediately upon the Issuing Lender s demand at any
time during the period commencing after such drawing until reimbursement therefor in full by the
Borrower, an amount equal to such Lender s ratable share of such drawing (in proportion to its
participation therein), together with interest on such amount for each day from the date of the

27 

Issuing Lender s demand for such payment (or, if such demand is made after 12:00 Noon (New
York City time) on such date, from the next succeeding Domestic Business Day) to the date of
payment by such Lender of such amount at a rate of interest per annum equal to the (i) if such
amount is denominated in Dollars, the Federal Funds Rate and (ii) if such amount is denominated in
an Alternative Currency, the rate per annum at which one-day deposits in the relevant currency are
offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in the London interbank market
for such day. The Issuing Lender will pay to each Lender ratably all amounts received from the
Borrower for application in payment of its reimbursement obligations in respect of any Letter of
Credit, but only to the extent such Lender has made payment to the Issuing Lender in respect of
such Letter of Credit pursuant hereto.

(e) The obligations of the Borrower and each Lender under subsection 2.19(d) above shall be
absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the
terms of this Agreement, under all circumstances whatsoever, including without limitation the
following circumstances:

(i) any lack of validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Letter of Credit
or any document related hereto or thereto;

(ii) any amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from all or any of the
provisions of this Agreement or any Letter of Credit or any document related hereto or
thereto, provided by any party affected thereby;

(iii) the use which may be made of the Letter of Credit by, or any acts or omission
of, a beneficiary of a Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom the beneficiary may be
acting);

(iv) the existence of any claim, set-off, defense or other rights that the Borrower
may have at any time against a beneficiary of a Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom
the beneficiary may be acting), the Lenders (including the Issuing Lender) or any other
Person, whether in connection with this Agreement or the Letter of Credit or any document
related hereto or thereto or any unrelated transaction;

(v) any statement or any other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to
be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or
inaccurate in any respect whatsoever;

28 

(vi) payment under a Letter of Credit to the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit
against presentation to the Issuing Lender of a draft or certificate that does not comply
with the terms of the Letter of Credit;

(vii) any termination of the Commitments prior to, on or after the Payment Date for
any Letter of Credit, whether at the scheduled termination thereof, by operation of
Article 6 or otherwise; or

(viii) any other act or omission to act or delay of any kind by any Lender (including
the Issuing Lender), the Administrative Agent or any other Person or any other event or
circumstance whatsoever that might, but for the provisions of this subsection (viii),
constitute a legal or equitable discharge of the Borrower s or the Lender s obligations
hereunder.

(f) The Borrower hereby indemnifies and holds harmless each Lender (including the Issuing
Lender) and the Administrative Agent from and against any and all claims, damages, losses,
liabilities, costs or expenses which such Lender or the Administrative Agent may incur (including,
without limitation, any claims, damages, losses, liabilities, costs or expenses which the Issuing
Lender may incur by reason of or in connection with the failure of any other Lender to fulfill or
comply with its obligations to such Issuing Lender hereunder (but nothing herein contained shall
affect any rights the Borrower may have against such defaulting Lender)), and none of the Lenders
(including the Issuing Lender) nor the Administrative Agent nor any of their officers or directors
or employees or agents shall be liable or responsible, by reason of or in connection with the
execution and delivery or transfer of or payment or failure to pay under any Letter of Credit,
including without limitation any of the circumstances enumerated in subsection 2.19(e) above, as
well as (i) any error, omission, interruption or delay in transmission or delivery of any messages,
by mail, cable, telegraph, telex or otherwise, (ii) any loss or delay in the transmission of any
document required in order to make a drawing under a Letter of Credit, and (iii) any consequences
arising from causes beyond the control of the Issuing Lender, including without limitation any
government acts, or any other circumstances whatsoever in making or failing to make payment under
such Letter of Credit;  provided  that the Borrower shall not be required to indemnify the Issuing
Lender for any claims, damages, losses, liabilities, costs or expenses, and the Borrower shall have
a claim for direct (but not consequential) damage suffered by it, to the extent found by a court of
competent jurisdiction to have been caused by (x) the willful misconduct or gross negligence of the
Issuing Lender in determining whether a request presented under any Letter of Credit complied with
the terms of such Letter of Credit or (y) the Issuing Lender s failure to pay under any Letter of
Credit after the presentation to it of a request strictly complying with the terms and conditions
of the Letter of Credit. Nothing in this subsection 2.19(f) is intended to limit the obligations of
the Borrower under any other provision of this Agreement. To the

29 

extent the Borrower does not indemnify the Issuing Lender as required by this subsection, the
Lenders agree to do so ratably in accordance with their Commitments.

(g) If the Required Lenders reasonably determine at any time that the conditions set forth in
Section 3.02 would not be satisfied in respect of a Borrowing at such time, then the Required
Lenders may request that the Administrative Agent issue a   Stop Issuance Notice  , and the
Administrative Agent shall issue such notice to each Issuing Lender. Such Stop Issuance Notice
shall be withdrawn upon a determination by the Required Lenders that the circumstances giving rise
thereto no longer exist. No Letter of Credit shall be issued while a Stop Issuance Notice is in
effect. The Required Lenders may request issuance of a Stop Issuance Notice only if there is a
reasonable basis therefor, and shall consider reasonably and in good faith a request from the
Company for withdrawal of the same on the basis that the conditions in Section 3.02 are satisfied;
 provided  that the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Lenders may and shall conclusively rely upon
any Stop Issuance Notice while it remains in effect.

Section 2.20 . Increased Commitments, Additional Lenders.  (a) From time to time the Company
may, upon at least five days  notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly provide a
copy of such notice to the Lenders), increase the aggregate amount of the Commitments by an amount
not less than $10,000,000 (the amount of any such increase, the   Increased Commitments  ).

(b) To effect such an increase, the Company may designate one or more of the existing Lenders
or other financial institutions acceptable to the Administrative Agent and each Issuing Lender
which at the time agree to (i) in the case of any such Person that is an existing Lender, increase
its Commitment and (ii) in the case of any other such Person (an   Additional Lender  ), become a
party to this Agreement with a Commitment of not less than $10,000,000.

(c) Any increase in the Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.20 shall be subject to
satisfaction of the following conditions:

(i) before and after giving effect to such increase, all representations and
warranties contained in Article 4 shall be true;

(ii) at the time of such increase, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing
or would result from such increase; and

(iii) after giving effect to such increase, the aggregate amount of all increases in
Commitments made pursuant to this Section 2.20 shall not exceed $500,000,000.

30 

(d) An increase in the aggregate amount of the Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.20 shall
become effective upon the receipt by the Administrative Agent of (i) an agreement in form and
substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent signed by the Company, by each Additional Lender
and by each other Lender whose Commitment is to be increased, setting forth the new Commitments of
such Lenders and setting forth the agreement of each Additional Lender to become a party to this
Agreement and to be bound by all the terms and provisions hereof, (ii) such evidence of appropriate
legal authorization on the part of the Company with respect to the Increased Commitments and such
opinions of counsel for the Company with respect to the Increased Commitments as the Administrative
Agent may reasonably request and (iii) such evidence of the satisfaction of the conditions set
forth in subsection (c) above as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.

(e) Upon any increase in the aggregate amount of the Commitments pursuant to this Section
2.20, (i) the respective Letter of Credit Liabilities of the Lenders shall be redetermined as of
the effective date of such increase in proportion to their respective Commitments after giving
effect to such increase and (ii) within five Domestic Business Days, in the case of Base Rate Loans
then outstanding, and at the end of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto, in the
case of Euro-Currency Loans then outstanding, the Borrower shall prepay or repay such Loans in
their entirety and, to the extent the Borrower elects to do so and subject to the conditions
specified in Article 3, the Borrower shall reborrow Loans from the Lenders in proportion to their
respective Commitments after giving effect to such increase, until such time as all outstanding
Loans are held by the Lenders in such proportion.

ARTICLE 3

Conditions 

Section 3.01 . Effectiveness.  This Amended Agreement shall become effective on the date that
each of the following conditions shall have been satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section
11.05):

(a) receipt by the Administrative Agent of counterparts hereof signed by each of the parties
hereto (or, in the case of any party as to which an executed counterpart shall not have been
received, receipt by the Administrative Agent in form satisfactory to it of telegraphic or other
written confirmation from such party of execution of a counterpart hereof by such party);

(b) receipt by the Administrative Agent of an opinion of  Jerome D. Okarma , general counsel
for the Company, substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto and covering such additional matters
relating to the transactions contemplated hereby as the Required Lenders may reasonably request;

31 

(c) receipt by the Administrative Agent of an opinion of Davis Polk   Wardwell, special
counsel for the Administrative Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto and covering
such additional matters relating to the transactions contemplated hereby as the Required Lenders
may reasonably request;

(d) receipt by the Administrative Agent of all documents the Administrative Agent may
reasonably request relating to the existence of the Company, the legal authority for and the
validity of this Amended Agreement and the Notes, and any other matters relevant hereto, all in
form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent; and

(e) arrangements satisfactory to the Administrative Agent shall have been made for the payment
of all principal of any loans outstanding under, and all accrued interest and fees under, the
Existing Agreements;

provided  that this Amended Agreement shall not become effective or be binding on any party hereto
unless all of the foregoing conditions are satisfied not later than December 8, 2006. On the
Effective Date, (i) the Existing Agreement shall be automatically amended and restated in its
entirety to read as this Amended Agreement, (ii) each Person listed on the signature pages hereof
which is not a party to the Existing Agreement shall become a Lender party to this Agreement, (iii)
the Commitment of each Lender shall be the amount set forth opposite the name of such Lender in the
Commitment Schedule and (iv) any Lender party to the Existing Agreement but not listed in the
Commitment Schedule (a   Departing Lender  ) shall cease to be a Lender party to this Agreement and
all accrued fees and other amounts payable under the Existing Agreement for the account of such
Departing Lender shall be due and payable on the Effective Date;  provided  that the provisions of
Sections 8.03, 8.04 and 11.03 of the Existing Agreement shall continue to inure to the benefit of
such Departing Lender. If any Letters of Credit are outstanding on the Effective Date, the
participations therein of the Departing Lenders shall terminate and the participations of the
Lenders therein shall be redetermined on the basis of their Commitments under this Amended
Agreement as if issued on the Effective Date. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the
Company, each Lender and each other party to the Existing Agreements of the Effective Date, and
such notice shall be conclusive and binding on all parties.

Section 3.02 . Borrowings and Issuances of Letters of Credit.  The obligation of any Lender to
make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing and the obligation of the Issuing Lender to issue (or
amend, renew or extend the term of) any Letter of Credit is subject to the satisfaction of the
following conditions:

32 

(a) receipt by the Administrative Agent of a Notice of Borrowing as required by Section 2.02
or receipt by the Issuing Lender of a Notice of Issuance as required by Section 2.19(b), as the
case may be;

(b) the fact that, immediately after such Borrowing or issuance of such Letter of Credit (i)
the Total Outstanding Amount will not exceed the aggregate amount of the Commitments and (ii) the
aggregate Dollar Amount of all Letter of Credit Liabilities will not exceed $200,000,000;

(c) the fact that, immediately before and after such Borrowing or issuance of such Letter of
Credit, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and

(d) the fact that the representations and warranties of the Company and, if other than the
Company, the Borrower contained in this Agreement (except the representations and warranties set
forth in Sections 4.04(c), 4.05 and 4.07, in each case as to any matter which has theretofore been
disclosed in writing by the Company to the Lenders) shall be true on and as of the date of such
Borrowing or issuance.

Each Borrowing and issuance of a Letter of Credit hereunder shall be deemed to be a representation
and warranty by the Borrower (and by the Company if it is not the Borrower) on the date of such
Borrowing as to the facts specified in clauses 3.02(b), 3.02(c) and 3.02(d).

Section 3.03 . First Borrowing by Each Eligible Subsidiary. 

(a) The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan, and the obligation of an Issuing Lender to
issue a Letter of Credit, on the occasion of the first Borrowing by or issuance of a Letter of
Credit for the account of each Eligible Subsidiary is subject to the receipt by the Administrative
Agent of the following documents:

(i) an opinion of counsel for such Eligible Subsidiary acceptable to the
Administrative Agent, which may be in-house counsel unless the Administrative Agent
otherwise reasonably determines, substantially in the form of Exhibit F hereto and
covering such additional matters relating to the transactions contemplated hereby as the
Required Lenders may reasonably request; and

(ii) all documents which it may reasonably request relating to the existence of such
Eligible Subsidiary, the legal authority for and the validity of the Election to
Participate of such Eligible Subsidiary, this Agreement and the Notes of such Eligible
Subsidiary, and any other

33 

matters relevant thereto, all in form and substance satisfactory to the
Administrative Agent.

(b) Following the giving of any Election to Participate, if the designation of such Eligible
Subsidiary obligates the Administrative Agent or any Lender to comply with  know your customer  or
similar identification procedures in circumstances where the necessary information is not already
available to it, the Company shall, promptly upon the request of the Administrative Agent or any
Lender, supply such documentation and other evidence as is reasonably requested by the
Administrative Agent or any Lender in order for the Administrative Agent or such Lender to carry
out and be satisfied it has complied with all necessary  know your customer  or other similar
checks under all applicable laws and regulations.

ARTICLE 4

Representations and Warranties of the Company 

The Company represents and warrants that:

Section 4.01 . Legal Existence and Power.  The Company is an entity duly organized, validly
existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, and has all
corporate powers and all material governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals
required to carry on its business as now conducted.

Section 4.02.  Legal and Governmental Authorization; No Contravention.  The execution,
delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement and its Notes are within the Company s
legal powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary legal action, require no action by or in
respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency or official and do not contravene, or
constitute a default under, any provision of applicable law or regulation or of the organizational
documents or by-laws of the Company or of any agreement, judgment, injunction, order, decree or
other instrument binding upon the Company or result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on
any asset of the Company or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries.

Section 4.03.  Binding Effect.  This Agreement constitutes a valid and binding agreement of
the Company, and its Notes, if and when executed and delivered in accordance with this Agreement,
will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company.

34 

Section 4.04.  Financial Information. 

(a) The consolidated statement of financial position of the Company and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries as of September 30, 2005 and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows
and shareholders  equity for the fiscal year then ended, reported on by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
and set forth in the Company s 2005 Form 10-K, a copy of which has been delivered to each of the
Lenders, fairly present, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, the
consolidated financial position of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of such date
and their consolidated results of operations and cash flows for such fiscal year.

(b) The unaudited consolidated statement of financial position of the Company and its
Consolidated Subsidiaries as of June 30, 2006 and the related unaudited consolidated statements of
income, cash flows and shareholders  equity for the nine months then ended, set forth in the
Company s quarterly report for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2006 as filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on Form 10-Q, a copy of which has been delivered to each of the Lenders,
fairly present, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis
consistent with the financial statements referred to in subsection (a) of this Section 4.04, the
consolidated financial position of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of such date
and their consolidated results of operations and cash flows for such nine month period (subject to
normal year-end adjustments).

(c) Since September 30, 2005 there has been no material adverse change in the business,
financial position, results of operations or prospects of the Company and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries, considered as a whole.

Section 4.05.  Litigation.  Except as set forth in the Company s reports on Form 8-K, Form
10-K and Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, copies of which have been provided to the Lenders, there is no action, suit
or proceeding pending against, or to the knowledge of the Company threatened against or affecting,
the Company or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries before any court or arbitrator or any
governmental body, agency or official in which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse
decision which could materially adversely affect the business, consolidated financial position or
consolidated results of operations of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, considered as
a whole, or which in any manner draws into question the validity of this Agreement or the Notes.

Section 4.06.  Compliance with ERISA.  Each member of the ERISA Group has fulfilled its
obligations under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code with respect
to each Plan and is in compliance in all material respects with the presently applicable provisions
of

35 

ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code with respect to each Plan. No member of the ERISA Group
has (i) sought a waiver of the minimum funding standard under Section 412 of the Internal Revenue
Code in respect of any Plan, (ii) failed to make any contribution or payment to any Plan or
Multiemployer Plan or in respect of any Benefit Arrangement, or made any amendment to any Plan or
Benefit Arrangement, which has resulted or could result in the imposition of a Lien or the posting
of a bond or other security under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code or (iii) incurred any
liability under Title IV of ERISA other than a liability to the PBGC for premiums under Section
4007 of ERISA.

Section 4.07.  Environmental Matters.  In the course of its business, the Company reviews the
effect of Environmental Laws on the business, operations and properties of the Company and its
Subsidiaries, in the course of which it attempts to identify and evaluate associated liabilities
and costs (  Environmental Liabilities  ) (including, without limitation, any capital or operating
expenditures required for clean-up or closure of properties presently owned, any capital or
operating expenditures required to achieve or maintain compliance with environmental protection
standards imposed by law or as a condition of any license, permit or contract, any related
constraints on operating activities, including any periodic or permanent shutdown of any facility
or reduction in the level of or change in the nature of operations conducted thereat and any actual
or potential liabilities to third parties, including employees, and any related costs and
expenses). Except as set forth in Schedule I hereto, on the basis of this review, the Company has
reasonably concluded that its Environmental Liabilities are unlikely to have a material adverse
effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of the Company and
its Consolidated Subsidiaries, considered as a whole.

Section 4.08.  Taxes.  United States Federal income tax returns of the Company and its
Consolidated Subsidiaries have been examined and closed through the fiscal year ended September 30,
2001. The Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries have filed all United States Federal income
tax returns and all other material tax returns which are required to be filed by them and have paid
all taxes due pursuant to such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by the Company or any
Consolidated Subsidiary. The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Company and its
Consolidated Subsidiaries in respect of taxes or other governmental charges are, in the opinion of
the Company, adequate.

Section 4.09.  Subsidiaries.  Each of the Company s Consolidated Subsidiaries is duly
organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of
organization, and has all legal powers and all material governmental licenses, authorizations,
consents and approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted, except those instances
where failure to hold

36 

such powers, licenses, authorizations, consents or approvals would not be expected to have a
material adverse effect on the Company.

Section 4.10.  Not an Investment Company.  The Company is not an  investment company  within
the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.

Section 4.11.  Full Disclosure.  All information heretofore furnished in writing by the
Company to the Administrative Agent or any Lender for purposes of or in connection with this
Agreement or any transaction contemplated hereby is, and all such information hereafter furnished
in writing by the Company to the Administrative Agent or any Lender will be, true and accurate in
all material respects on the date as of which such information is stated or certified. The Company
has disclosed to the Lenders in writing any and all facts which materially and adversely affect the
business, operations or financial condition of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, taken
as a whole, or the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under this Agreement.

ARTICLE 5

Covenants 

The Company agrees that, so long as any Lender has any Commitment hereunder or any principal,
interest or fees payable hereunder remain unpaid:

Section 5.01.  Information.  The Company will deliver to each of the Lenders:

(a) as soon as available and in any event within 95 days after the end of each fiscal year of
the Company, a consolidated statement of financial position of the Company and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and the related consolidated statements of income,
cash flow and shareholders  or members  equity for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in
comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all set forth in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and reported on in a manner acceptable to the Securities
and Exchange Commission by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP or other independent public accountants of
nationally recognized standing;

(b) as soon as available and in any event within 50 days after the end of each of the first
three quarters of each fiscal year of the Company, a consolidated statement of financial position
of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and the related
consolidated statements of income, cash flow and shareholders  or members  equity for such quarter
and for the portion of the Company s fiscal year ended at the end of such quarter, setting forth in
each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding quarter

37 

and the corresponding portion of the Company s previous fiscal year, all certified (subject to
normal year-end adjustments) as to fairness of presentation, generally accepted accounting
principles and consistency by the chief financial officer or the chief accounting officer of the
Company;

(c) simultaneously with the delivery of each set of financial statements referred to in
clauses (a) and (b) above, a certificate of the chief financial officer or the chief accounting
officer of the Company (i) stating whether any Default exists on the date of such certificate and,
if any Default then exists, setting forth the details thereof and the action which the Company is
taking or proposes to take with respect thereto and (ii) setting forth in reasonable detail the
calculations required to establish whether the Company was in compliance with the requirements of
Sections 5.07 to 5.08, inclusive, on the date of such financial statements;

(d) as soon as practicable under the circumstances, after any officer of the Company obtains
knowledge of any Default, if such Default is then continuing, a certificate of the chief financial
officer or the chief accounting officer of the Company setting forth the details thereof and the
action which the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto;

(e) promptly upon the mailing thereof to the shareholders of the Company generally, copies of
all financial statements, reports and proxy statements so mailed;

(f) promptly upon the filing thereof, copies of all registration statements (other than the
exhibits thereto and any registration statements on Form S-8 or its equivalent) and reports on
Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K (or their equivalents) which the Company shall have filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission;

(g) if and when any member of the ERISA Group (i) gives or is required to give notice to the
PBGC of any  reportable event  (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA) with respect to any Plan which
might constitute grounds for a termination of such Plan under Title IV of ERISA, or knows that the
plan administrator of any Plan has given or is required to give notice of any such reportable
event, a copy of the notice of such reportable event given or required to be given to the PBGC;
(ii) receives notice of complete or partial withdrawal liability under Title IV of ERISA or notice
that any Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization, is insolvent or has been terminated, a copy of
such notice; (iii) receives notice from the PBGC under Title IV of ERISA of an intent to terminate,
impose liability (other than for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA) in respect of, or appoint a
trustee to administer any Plan, a copy of such notice; (iv) applies for a waiver of the minimum
funding standard under Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code, a copy of such application; (v)
gives notice of intent to terminate any Plan under Section 4041(c) of ERISA, a copy of such notice
and

38 

other information filed with the PBGC; (vi) gives notice of withdrawal from any Plan pursuant
to Section 4063 of ERISA, a copy of such notice; or (vii) fails to make any payment or contribution
to any Plan or Multiemployer Plan or in respect of any Benefit Arrangement or makes any amendment
to any Plan or Benefit Arrangement which has resulted or could result in the imposition of a Lien
or the posting of a bond or other security, a certificate of the chief financial officer or the
chief accounting officer of the Company setting forth details as to such occurrence and action, if
any, which the Company or applicable member of the ERISA Group is required or proposes to take; and

(h) from time to time such additional information regarding the financial position or business
of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as the Administrative Agent, at the request of any
Lender, may reasonably request.

Information required to be delivered pursuant to subsections (a), (b), (e) or (f) above shall
be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which the Company provides notice to the Lenders
that such information has been posted on the Company s website on the Internet at the website
address www.jci.com, at sec.gov/edaux/searches.htm or at another website identified in such notice
and accessible by the Lenders without charge;  provided  that (i) such notice may be included in a
certificate delivered pursuant to subsection 5.01(c) and (ii) the Company shall deliver paper
copies of the information referred to in subsections (a), (b), (e) or (f) to any Lender which
requests such delivery.

Section 5.02.  Payment of Obligations.  Each Borrower will pay and discharge, and will cause
each of its Consolidated Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, at or before maturity, all their
respective material obligations and liabilities including, without limitation, tax liabilities,
except where the same may be contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, and will maintain,
and will cause each of its Consolidated Subsidiaries to maintain, in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, appropriate reserves for the accrual of any of the same.

Section 5.03.  Maintenance of Property; Insurance. 

(a) Each Borrower will, to the best of its ability, keep, and will cause each of its
Consolidated Subsidiaries to keep, all material property useful and necessary in its business in
good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.

(b) Each Borrower will, and will cause each of its Consolidated Subsidiaries to, maintain
(either in the name of such Borrower or in such Consolidated Subsidiary s own name) with
financially sound and responsible insurance companies, insurance on all their respective properties
in at least such

39 

amounts, and with such reasonable amounts of self-insurance, and against at least such risks
(and with such risk retention) as are usually insured against in the same general area by companies
of established repute engaged in the same or a similar business; and will furnish to the Lenders,
upon request from the Administrative Agent, information presented in reasonable detail as to the
insurance so carried.

Section 5.04.  Conduct of Business and Maintenance of Existence.  Each Borrower will preserve,
renew and keep in full force and effect, and will cause each of its Consolidated Subsidiaries to
preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect their respective legal existence and their
respective rights, privileges and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of
business;  provided  that nothing in this Section 5.04 shall prohibit (i) the merger of a
Consolidated Subsidiary into the Company or the merger or consolidation of a Consolidated
Subsidiary with or into another Person if the entity surviving such consolidation or merger is a
Consolidated Subsidiary and if, in each case, after giving effect thereto, no Default shall have
occurred and be continuing or (ii) the termination of the legal existence of any Consolidated
Subsidiary if the Company in good faith determines that such termination (x) is in the best
interest of the Company and (y) is not materially disadvantageous to the Lenders.

Section 5.05.  Compliance with Laws.  Each Borrower will comply, and cause each of its
Consolidated Subsidiaries to comply, in all material respects with all applicable laws, ordinances,
rules, regulations, and requirements of governmental authorities (including, without limitation,
Environmental Laws and ERISA and the rules and regulations thereunder) except where the necessity
of compliance therewith is contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings.

Section 5.06.  Inspection of Property, Books and Records.  Each Borrower will keep, and will
cause each of its Consolidated Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account in which
full, true and correct entries shall be made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its
business and activities; and will permit, and will cause each of its Consolidated Subsidiaries to
permit, representatives of any Lender at such Lender s expense to visit and inspect any of their
respective properties, to examine any of their respective books and records and to discuss their
respective affairs, finances and accounts with their respective officers and independent public
accountants in the presence of such officers, all at such reasonable times and as often as may
reasonably be desired.

Section 5.07.  Minimum Consolidated Stockholder s Equity.  Consolidated Stockholders  Equity
will at no time be less than $1,310,000,000.

Section 5.08.  Negative Pledge.  Neither the Company nor any Consolidated Subsidiary will
create, assume or suffer to exist any Lien on any asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it,
except:

40 

(a) Liens existing on the date of this Amended Agreement securing Debt outstanding on the date
of this Amended Agreement in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding $100,000,000;

(b) any Lien existing on any asset of any entity at the time such entity becomes a
Consolidated Subsidiary and not created in contemplation of such event;

(c) any Lien on any asset securing Debt incurred or assumed for the purpose of financing an
amount not to exceed all or any part of the cost of acquiring such asset, provided that such Lien
attaches to such asset concurrently with or within 90 days after the acquisition thereof;

(d) any Lien on any asset of any entity existing at the time such entity is merged or
consolidated with or into the Company or a Consolidated Subsidiary and not created in contemplation
of such event;

(e) any Lien existing on any asset prior to the acquisition thereof by the Company or a
Consolidated Subsidiary and not created in contemplation of such acquisition;

(f) any Lien arising out of the refinancing, extension, renewal or refunding of any Debt
secured by any Lien permitted by any of the foregoing clauses of this Section 5.08, provided that
such Debt is not increased and is not secured by any additional assets;

(g) Liens arising in the ordinary course of its business which (i) do not secure Debt or any
obligations of the type referred to in the proviso to the definition of Debt, (ii) do not secure
any obligation in an amount exceeding $75,000,000 and (iii) do not in the aggregate materially
detract from the value of its assets or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of its
business; and

(h) Liens not otherwise permitted by the foregoing clauses of this Section 5.08 securing Debt
in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed 10% of Consolidated
Stockholders  Equity.

Section 5.09.  Consolidation, Mergers and Sales of Assets.  Neither the Company nor any
Consolidated Subsidiary will (i) consolidate or merge with or into any other Person or (ii) sell,
lease or otherwise transfer, directly or indirectly, all or any substantial part of the assets of
the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any other Person;  provided  that
(A) the Company and any Consolidated Subsidiary may merge with another Person (other than a merger
of a Consolidated Subsidiary with the Company) if the Company or such Consolidated Subsidiary is
the entity surviving such merger and if, immediately after giving effect to such merger, no Default
shall have occurred

41 

and be continuing, (B) the Company and any Consolidated Subsidiary may merge with each other
if immediately after giving effect to such merger, no Default shall have occurred and be
continuing;  provided  that, if the Company is not the Person surviving such merger, such Person (1)
is a entity organized under the laws of any State of the United States of America and (2) shall
have assumed all obligations of the Company under this Agreement and any Note pursuant to an
instrument satisfactory in form and substance to the Administrative Agent, (C) any Consolidated
Subsidiary may merge with or into any other Consolidated Subsidiary, so long as a Consolidated
Subsidiary is the Person surviving such merger and (D) the Company may consummate a Holding Company
Reorganization so long as after giving effect thereto, (w) no Default shall have occurred and be
continuing, (x) the Holding Company shall have assumed, pursuant to an instrument in form and
substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, the obligations of the Company under
this Agreement and its Notes, (y) the Administrative Agent shall have received an opinion of
counsel with respect to the Holding Company substantially to the effect of Exhibit B hereto and
such other evidence of compliance herewith as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request, all
in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and (z) the senior
unsecured long-term debt ratings assigned by S P, Moody s and Fitch, respectively, to the Holding
Company are no lower than those assigned to the Company immediately prior to the Holding Company
Reorganization.

Section 5.10.  Use of Proceeds.  The proceeds of the Loans made under this Agreement will be
used by the Borrowers for general business purposes. None of such proceeds will be used, directly
or indirectly, for the purpose, whether immediate, incidental or ultimate, of buying or carrying
any  margin stock  within the meaning of Regulation U.

ARTICLE 6

Defaults 

Section 6.01.  Events of Default.  If one or more of the following events (  Events of
Default  ) shall have occurred and be continuing:

(a) any principal of any Loan or any Reimbursement Obligation shall not be paid when due, or
any interest, any fees or any other amount payable hereunder, shall not be paid within five days of
the due date therefor;

(b) the Company shall fail to observe or perform any covenant contained in Sections 5.07 to
5.10, inclusive;

(c) any Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant or agreement contained in this
Agreement (other than those covered by clause (a) or

42 

(b) above) for 30 days after written notice thereof has been given to the Company by the
Administrative Agent at the request of any Lender;

(d) the guaranty provided by the Company under Section 10.01 of this Agreement shall cease to
be in full force and effect;

(e) any representation, warranty, certification or statement made by any Borrower in this
Agreement or in any certificate, financial statement or other document delivered pursuant to this
Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made (or deemed made);

(f) the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment in respect of
any Material Debt when due or within any applicable grace period;

(g) any event or condition shall occur which results in the acceleration of the maturity of
any Material Debt or enables (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would enable)
the holder of such Debt or any Person acting on such holder s behalf to accelerate the maturity
thereof;

(h) the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary shall commence a voluntary case or other
proceeding seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to itself or its debts
under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect or seeking the
appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official of it or any
substantial part of its property, or shall consent to any such relief or to the appointment of or
taking possession by any such official in an involuntary case or other proceeding commenced against
it, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall fail generally to pay
its debts as they become due, or shall take any legal action to authorize any of the foregoing;

(i) an involuntary case or other proceeding shall be commenced against the Company or any
Consolidated Subsidiary seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to it or
its debts under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect or
seeking the appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official of
it or any substantial part of its property, and such involuntary case or other proceeding shall
remain undismissed and unstayed for a period of 60 days; or an order for relief shall be entered
against the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary under the federal bankruptcy laws as now or
hereafter in effect;

(j) any member of the ERISA Group shall fail to pay when due an amount or amounts aggregating
in excess of $75,000,000 which it shall have become liable to pay under Title IV of ERISA; or
notice of intent to terminate a Material Plan shall be filed under Title IV of ERISA by any member
of the

43 

ERISA Group, any plan administrator or any combination of the foregoing; or the PBGC shall
institute proceedings under Title IV of ERISA to terminate, to impose liability (other than for
premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA) in respect of, or to cause a trustee to be appointed to
administer any Material Plan; or a condition shall exist by reason of which the PBGC would be
entitled to obtain a decree adjudicating that any Material Plan must be terminated; or there shall
occur a complete or partial withdrawal from, or a default, within the meaning of Section 4219(c)(5)
of ERISA, with respect to, one or more Multiemployer Plans which could cause one or more members of
the ERISA Group to incur a current payment obligation in excess of $75,000,000;

(k) a judgment or order for the payment of money in excess of $100,000,000 shall be rendered
against the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary and such judgment or order shall continue
unsatisfied and unstayed for the shorter of (x) a period of 30 days and (y) the period during which
a request or proceeding for stay of enforcement of such judgment or order is permitted under the
rules of the relevant jurisdiction; or

(l) (i) any person or group of persons (within the meaning of Section 13 or 14 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the
meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under said Act) of 20%
or more of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company; or, (ii) during any period of 18
consecutive calendar months, individuals who were directors of the Company on the first day of such
period shall cease to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the Company;  provided  that
if a Holding Company Reorganization is consummated in compliance with Section 5.09, (x) neither the
Holding Company Reorganization nor any of the transactions giving rise to the Holding Company
Reorganization shall give rise to a Default pursuant to clause (i), and (y) clause (ii) shall apply
as if the Company prior thereto and the Company subsequent thereto were the same Person;

then, and in every such event, the Administrative Agent shall (i) if requested by Lenders having
more than 50% in aggregate amount of the Commitments, by notice to the Company terminate the
Commitments and they shall thereupon terminate, and (ii) if requested by Lenders holding more than
50% in aggregate principal amount of the Loans, by notice to the Company declare the Loans
(together with accrued interest thereon) to be, and the Loans shall thereupon become, immediately
due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are
hereby waived by each Borrower;  provided  that in the case of any of the Events of Default specified
in clause 6.01(h) or 6.01(i) above with respect to any Borrower, without any notice to any Borrower
or any other act by the Administrative Agent or the Lenders, the Commitments shall thereupon
terminate and the Loans (together with accrued interest thereon) shall become immediately due and
payable without presentment,

44 

demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by each Borrower.

Section 6.02.  Notice of Default.  The Administrative Agent shall give notice to the Company
under Section 6.01(c) promptly upon being requested to do so by any Lender and shall thereupon
notify all the Lenders thereof.

Section 6.03 . Cash Cover.  Each Borrower agrees, in addition to the provisions in Section
6.01, that upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, it shall, if
requested by the Administrative Agent upon the instruction of the Required Lenders or any Issuing
Lender having an outstanding Letter of Credit, Cash Collateralize all Letters of Credit outstanding
at such time (or, in the cast of a request by an Issuing Bank, all such Letters of Credit issued by
it),  provided  that, upon the occurrence of any Event of Default specified in clause (h) or (i)
above with respect to any Borrower, the Borrowers shall Cash Collateralize all outstanding Letters
of Credit forthwith without any notice or demand or any other act by the Administrative Agent, any
Issuing Lender or any Lender.

ARTICLE 7

The Administrative Agent 

Section 7.01 . Appointment and Authorization.  Each Lender irrevocably appoints and authorizes
the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers
under this Agreement and the Notes as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof
or thereof, together with all such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.

Section 7.02.  Administrative Agent and Affiliates.  JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. shall have the
same rights and powers under this Agreement as any other Lender and may exercise or refrain from
exercising the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
and its affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, and generally engage in any kind of
business with any Borrower or any Consolidated Subsidiary or affiliate of any Borrower as if it
were not the Administrative Agent.

Section 7.03.  Action by Administrative Agent.  The obligations of the Administrative Agent
hereunder are only those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action with respect to any
Default, except as expressly provided in Article 6.

Section 7.04.  Consultation with Experts.  The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for
any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in

45 

accordance with the advice of legal counsel (who may be counsel for any Borrower), independent
public accountants and other experts selected by it.

Section 7.05.  Liability of Administrative Agent.  Neither the Administrative Agent nor any of
its affiliates nor any of their respective directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable
for any action taken or not taken by it in connection herewith (i) with the consent or at the
request of the Required Lenders or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful
misconduct. Neither the Administrative Agent nor any of its affiliates nor any of their respective
directors, officers, agents or employees shall be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain,
inquire into or verify (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in connection with this
Agreement or any Borrowing or issuance of a Letter of Credit hereunder; (ii) the performance or
observance of any of the covenants or agreements of any Borrower; (iii) the satisfaction of any
condition specified in Article 3 except receipt of items required to be delivered to the
Administrative Agent; or (iv) the validity, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, the
Notes, the Letters of Credit or any other instrument or writing furnished in connection herewith.
The Administrative Agent shall not incur any liability by acting in reliance upon any notice,
consent, certificate, statement, or other writing (which may be a bank wire or similar writing)
believed by it to be genuine or to be signed by the proper party or parties.

Section 7.06.  Indemnification.  Each Lender shall, ratably in accordance with its Commitment,
indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Issuing Lender, their affiliates and their respective
directors, officers, agents and employees (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrowers) against
any cost, expense (including counsel fees and disbursements), claim, demand, action, loss or
liability (except such as result from such indemnitees  gross negligence or willful misconduct)
that such indemnitees may suffer or incur in connection with this Agreement or any Letter of Credit
or any action taken or omitted by such indemnitees hereunder or thereunder.

Section 7.07.  Credit Decision.  Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and
without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and based on such documents and
information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into
this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance
upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as
it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not
taking any action under this Agreement.

Section 7.08.  Successor Administrative Agent.  The Administrative Agent may resign at any
time by giving written notice thereof to the Lenders and the Company. Upon any such resignation,
the Required Lenders shall have the right

46 

to appoint a successor Administrative Agent. If no successor Administrative Agent shall have
been so appointed by the Required Lenders, and shall have accepted such appointment, within 30 days
after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of resignation, then the retiring
Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent, which
shall be a commercial bank organized or licensed under the laws of the United States of America or
of any State thereof and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. Upon the
acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor Administrative
Agent, such successor Administrative Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all
the rights and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent
shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. After any retiring Administrative
Agent s resignation hereunder as Administrative Agent, the provisions of this Article shall inure
to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative
Agent.

Section 7.09.  Administrative Agent s Fee.  The Company shall pay to the Administrative Agent
for its own account fees in the amounts and at the times previously agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Administrative Agent.

Section 7.10 . Co-Syndication Agents.  Nothing in this Agreement shall impose any duty or
liability whatsoever on any of the Co-Syndication Agents in such capacity.

ARTICLE 8

Change in Circumstances 

Section 8.01.  Basis for Determining Interest Rate Inadequate or Unfair.  If on or prior to
the first day of any Interest Period for any Euro-Currency Loan:

(a) the Administrative Agent determines that adequate and fair means do not exist for
determining the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate for such Interest Period, or

(b) Lenders having 50% or more of the aggregate amount of the Commitments advise the
Administrative Agent that the London Interbank Offered Rate as determined by the Administrative
Agent will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding their
Euro-Currency Loans for such Interest Period,

the Administrative Agent shall forthwith give notice thereof to the Company and the Lenders,
whereupon, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Company that the circumstances giving rise
to such suspension no longer exist, (i) the obligations of the Lenders to make Euro-Currency Loans
in the relevant currency,

47 

or to continue or convert outstanding Loans as or into Euro-Currency Loans in the relevant
currency, shall be suspended and (ii) each outstanding Euro-Currency Loan in the relevant currency
shall be prepaid (or, in the case of a Euro-Dollar Loan, converted into a Base Rate Loan) on the
last day of the then current Interest Period applicable thereto. Unless the Borrower notifies the
Administrative Agent at least one Domestic Business Day before the date of any Euro-Currency
Borrowing for which a Notice of Borrowing has previously been given that it elects not to borrow on
such date, such Borrowing shall instead be made as a Base Rate Borrowing in an equal Dollar Amount.

Section 8.02.  Illegality.  If, on or after the date of this Amended Agreement, the adoption
of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change in any applicable law, rule or regulation,
or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority,
central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or
compliance by any Lender (or its Euro-Dollar Lending Office) with any request or directive (whether
or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency shall make
it unlawful or impossible for any Lender (or its Euro-Dollar Lending Office) to make, maintain or
fund its Euro-Currency Loans to any Borrower in any currency and such Lender shall so notify the
Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent shall forthwith give notice thereof to the other
Lenders and the Company, whereupon until such Lender notifies the Company and the Administrative
Agent that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension no longer exist, the obligation of such
Lender to make Euro-Currency Loans to such Borrower in such currency shall be suspended. Before
giving any notice to the Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section 8.02, such Lender shall
designate a different Euro-Currency Lending Office if such designation will avoid the need for
giving such notice and will not, in the judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to
such Lender. If such notice is given, each affected Euro-Currency Loan of such Lender then
outstanding shall be converted to a Base Rate Loan (in the case of an Alternative Currency Loan, in
a principal amount determined on the basis of the Spot Rate on the date of conversion) either (a)
on the last day of the then current Interest Period applicable to such Euro-Currency Loan if such
Lender may lawfully continue to maintain and fund such Loan as a Euro-Currency Loan to such day or
(b) immediately if such Lender shall determine that it may not lawfully continue to maintain and
fund such Loan as a Euro-Currency Loan to such day.

Section 8.03.  Increased Cost and Reduced Return. 

(a) If on or after the date of this Amended Agreement, the adoption of any applicable law,
rule or regulation, or any change in any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change in the
interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable
agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by any Lender (or
its

48 

Applicable Lending Office) with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of
law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency, shall impose, modify or deem
applicable any reserve (including, without limitation, any such requirement imposed by the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, but excluding with respect to any Euro-Currency Loan any
such requirement with respect to which such Lender is entitled to compensation during the relevant
Interest Period under Section 2.14), special deposit, insurance assessment or similar requirement
against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, such Lender (or its
Applicable Lending Office) or shall impose on any Lender (or its Applicable Lending Office) or on
the London interbank market any other condition affecting its Euro-Currency Loans, its Note(s) or
its obligation to make Euro-Currency Loans or its obligations hereunder in respect of Letters of
Credit and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Lender (or its
Applicable Lending Office) of making or maintaining any Euro-Currency Loan or of issuing or
participating in any Letter of Credit, or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by
such Lender (or its Applicable Lending Office) under this Agreement or under its Note(s) with
respect thereto, by an amount deemed by such Lender to be material, then, within 15 days after
demand by such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), the Company shall pay to such
Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such increased cost or
reduction.

(b) If any Lender shall have determined that, after the date of this Agreement, the adoption
of any applicable law, rule or regulation regarding capital adequacy, or any change in any such
law, rule or regulation, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any
governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or
administration thereof, or any request or directive regarding capital adequacy (whether or not
having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency, has or would
have the effect of reducing the rate of return on capital of such Lender (or its Parent) as a
consequence of such Lender s obligations hereunder to a level below that which such Lender (or its
Parent) could have achieved but for such adoption, change, request or directive (taking into
consideration its policies with respect to capital adequacy) by an amount deemed by such Lender to
be material, then from time to time, within 15 days after demand by such Lender (with a copy to the
Administrative Agent), the Company shall pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as
will compensate such Lender (or its Parent) for such reduction.

(c) Each Lender will promptly notify the Company and the Administrative Agent of any event of
which it has knowledge, occurring after the date hereof, which will entitle such Lender to
compensation pursuant to this Section 8.03 and will designate a different Applicable Lending Office
if such

49 

designation will avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, such compensation and will not,
in the judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender. A certificate of any
Lender claiming compensation under this Section 8.03 and setting forth the additional amount or
amounts to be paid to it hereunder shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. In
determining such amount, such Lender may use any reasonable averaging and attribution methods.

Section 8.04 . Taxes. 

(a) Any and all payments by any Borrower to or for the account of any Lender or the
Administrative Agent hereunder or under any Note shall be made free and clear of and without
deduction for any and all present or future taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or
withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto,  excluding , in the case of each Lender and
the Administrative Agent, taxes imposed on or measured by its income, and franchise taxes imposed
on it, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender or the Administrative Agent (as the
case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof and, in the case of each Lender,
taxes imposed on or measured by its income, and franchise or similar taxes imposed on it, by the
jurisdiction of such Lender s Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof (all
such non-excluded taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities
being hereinafter referred to as its   Taxes  , and all such excluded taxes being hereinafter
referred to as its   Domestic Taxes  ). If a Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes
from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any Note to any Lender or the
Administrative Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all
required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section
8.04) such Lender or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the
sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Borrower shall make such
deductions, (iii) such Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation
authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law and (iv) such Borrower shall furnish
to the Administrative Agent, at its address referred to in Section 11.01, the original or a
certified copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof.

(b) In addition, the Company agrees to pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes
and any other excise or property taxes, or charges or similar levies which arise from any payment
made hereunder or under any Note or from the execution or delivery of, or otherwise with respect
to, this Agreement or any Note (hereinafter referred to as   Other Taxes  ).

(c) The Company agrees to indemnify each Lender and the Administrative Agent for the full
amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, any Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or
asserted by any

50 

jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 8.04) paid by such Lender or the
Administrative Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and
expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto. In addition, the Company agrees to indemnify
the Administrative Agent and each Lender for all Domestic Taxes and any liability (including
penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto, in each case to the
extent that such Domestic Taxes result from any payment or indemnification pursuant to this Section
for (i) Taxes or Other Taxes imposed by any jurisdiction other than the United States or (ii)
Domestic Taxes of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be. This
indemnification shall be made within 15 days from the date such Lender or the Administrative Agent
(as the case may be) makes demand therefor.

(d) At the times indicated herein, each Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction
outside the United States shall provide the Company with Internal Revenue Service form W-8BEN or
W-8ECI (in each case accompanied by any statements which may be required under applicable Treasury
regulations), as appropriate, or any successor form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service,
certifying that such Lender is entitled to receive payments under this Agreement (i) without
deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes or (ii) subject to a reduced
rate of United States federal withholding tax, unless, in each case of clause (i) and (ii) of this
Section 8.04(d), an event (including, without limitation, any change in treaty, law or regulation)
has occurred prior to the date on which any such delivery would otherwise be required which renders
such forms inapplicable or which would prevent the Lender from duly completing and delivering any
such form with respect to it and the Lender advises the Company and the Administrative Agent that
it is not capable of receiving payments without any deduction or withholding of such taxes. Such
forms shall be provided (x) on or prior to the date of the Lender s execution and delivery of this
Agreement in the case of each Lender listed on the signature pages hereof, and on or prior to the
date on which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender, and (y) on or before the date
that such form expires or becomes obsolete or after the occurrence of any event requiring a change
in the most recent form so delivered by the Lender. If the form provided by a Lender at the time
such Lender first becomes a party to this Agreement indicates a United States interest withholding
tax rate in excess of zero, United States withholding tax at such rate shall be considered excluded
from  Taxes  as defined in Section 8.04(a). In addition, to the extent that for reasons other than
a change of treaty, law or regulation any Lender becomes subject to an increased rate of United
States interest withholding tax while it is a party to this Agreement, United States withholding
tax at such increased rate shall be considered excluded from  Taxes  as defined in Section 8.04(a).

51 

(e) For any period with respect to which a Lender has failed to provide the Company with the
appropriate form in accordance with Section 8.04(d) (unless such failure is excused by the terms of
Section 8.04(d)), such Lender shall not be entitled to indemnification under Section 8.04(a) or
8.04(c) with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States;  provided ,  however , that should a
Lender, which is otherwise exempt from or subject to a reduced rate of withholding tax, become
subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form required hereunder, the Company shall
take such steps as such Lender shall reasonably request to assist such Lender to recover such
Taxes.

(f) If the Company is required to pay additional amounts to or for the account of any Lender
pursuant to this Section 8.04, then such Lender will change the jurisdiction of its Applicable
Lending Office so as to eliminate or reduce any such additional payment which may thereafter accrue
if such change, in the judgment of such Lender in the good faith exercise of its discretion, is not
otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.

Section 8.05.  Base Rate Loans Substituted for Affected Euro-Currency Loans.  If (i) the
obligation of any Lender to make, or to continue or convert outstanding Loans as or to,
Euro-Currency Loans to any Borrower in any currency has been suspended pursuant to Section 8.02 or
(ii) any Lender has demanded compensation under Section 8.03 or 8.04 with respect to its
Euro-Currency Loans in any currency and the Company shall, by at least five Euro-Dollar Business
Days  prior notice to such Lender through the Administrative Agent, have elected that the
provisions of this Section shall apply to such Lender, then, unless and until such Lender notifies
the Company that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension or demand for compensation no
longer exist, all Loans which would otherwise be made by such Lender as (or continued as or
converted to) Euro-Currency Loans in such currency to such Borrower shall instead be Base Rate
Loans (in the case of Alternative Currency Loans, in the same Dollar Amount as the Euro-Currency
Loan that such Lender would otherwise have made in the Alternative Currency) on which interest and
principal shall be payable contemporaneously with the related Euro-Currency Loans of the other
Lenders. If such Lender notifies the Company that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension
or demand for compensation no longer exist, the principal amount of each such Base Rate Loan shall
be converted into a Euro-Currency Loan on the first day of the next succeeding Interest Period
applicable to the related Euro-Currency Loans of the other Lenders. If such Loan is converted into
an Alternative Currency Loan, such Lender, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower shall make
such arrangements as shall be required (including increasing or decreasing the amount of such
Alternative Currency Loan) so that such Alternative Currency Loan shall be in the same amount as it
would have been if the provisions of this Section had never applied thereto.

52 

ARTICLE 9

Representations and Warranties of Eligible Subsidiaries 

Each Eligible Subsidiary shall be deemed by the execution and delivery of its Election to
Participate to have represented and warranted as of the date thereof that:

Section 9.01.  Legal Existence and Power.  It is duly organized, validly existing and in good
standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization and is and will continue to be a
Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiary of the Company.

Section 9.02.  Legal and Governmental Authorization; No Contravention.  The execution and
delivery by it of its Election to Participate and its Notes, and the performance by it of this
Agreement and its Notes, are within its legal powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary
legal action, require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency
or official and do not contravene, or constitute a default under, any provision of applicable law
or regulation or of its organizational documents or of any agreement, judgment, injunction, order,
decree or other instrument binding upon the Company or such Eligible Subsidiary or result in the
creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of the Company or any of its Consolidated
Subsidiaries.

Section 9.03.  Binding Effect.  This Agreement constitutes a valid and binding agreement of
such Eligible Subsidiary and its Notes, if and when executed and delivered in accordance with this
Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of such Eligible Subsidiary.

Section 9.04.  Taxes.  Except as disclosed in such Election to Participate, there is no
income, stamp or other tax of any country, or any taxing authority thereof or therein, imposed by
or in the nature of withholding or otherwise, which is imposed on any payment to be made by such
Eligible Subsidiary pursuant hereto or on its Notes, or is imposed on or by virtue of the
execution, delivery or enforcement of its Election to Participate or of its Notes.

ARTICLE 10

Guaranty 

Section 10.01.  The Guaranty.  The Company hereby unconditionally guarantees the full and
punctual payment (whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise) of the principal of
and interest on each Loan made to and each Reimbursement Obligation incurred by any Eligible
Subsidiary pursuant to this Agreement, and the full and punctual payment of all other amounts
payable by any Eligible Subsidiary under this Agreement. Upon failure by any Eligible

53 

Subsidiary to pay punctually any such amount, the Company shall forthwith on demand pay the
amount not so paid at the place and in the manner specified in this Agreement.

Section 10.02.  Guaranty Unconditional.  The obligations of the Company hereunder shall be
unconditional and absolute and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall not be
released, discharged or otherwise affected by:

(a) any extension, renewal, settlement, compromise, waiver or release in respect of any
obligation of any Eligible Subsidiary under this Agreement or any Note, by operation of law or
otherwise;

(b) any modification or amendment of or supplement to this Agreement or any Note;

(c) any release, impairment, non-perfection or invalidity of any direct or indirect security
for any obligation of any Eligible Subsidiary under this Agreement or any Note;

(d) any change in the legal existence, structure or ownership of any Eligible Subsidiary, or
any insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization or other similar proceeding affecting any Eligible
Subsidiary or its assets or any resulting release or discharge of any obligation of any Eligible
Subsidiary contained in this Agreement or any Note;

(e) the existence of any claim, set-off or other rights which the Company may have at any time
against any Eligible Subsidiary, the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other Person, whether
in connection herewith or any unrelated transactions, provided that nothing herein shall prevent
the assertion of any such claim by separate suit or compulsory counterclaim;

(f) any invalidity or unenforceability relating to or against any Eligible Subsidiary for any
reason of this Agreement or any Note, or any provision of applicable law or regulation purporting
to prohibit the payment by any Eligible Subsidiary of the principal of or interest on any Loan or
any other amount payable by it under this Agreement; or

(g) any other act or omission to act or delay of any kind by any Eligible Subsidiary, the
Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other Person or any other circumstance whatsoever which
might, but for the provisions of this paragraph, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of or
defense to the Company s obligations hereunder.

Section 10.03.  Discharge Only Upon Payment In Full; Reinstatement In Certain Circumstances. 
The Company s obligations hereunder shall remain in

54 

full force and effect until the Commitments shall have terminated and the principal of and
interest on the Loans, the Reimbursement Obligations and all other amounts payable by the Company
and each Eligible Subsidiary under this Agreement shall have been paid in full. If at any time any
payment of the principal of or interest on any Loan or any other amount payable by any Eligible
Subsidiary under this Agreement is rescinded or must be otherwise restored or returned upon the
insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of any Eligible Subsidiary or otherwise, the Company s
obligations hereunder with respect to such payment shall be reinstated at such time as though such
payment had been due but not made at such time.

Section 10.04.  Waiver by the Company.  The Company irrevocably waives acceptance hereof,
presentment, demand, protest and any notice not provided for herein, as well as any requirement
that at any time any action be taken by any Person against any Eligible Subsidiary or any other
Person.

Section 10.05.  Subrogation.  The Company irrevocably waives any and all rights to which it
may be entitled, by operation of law or otherwise, upon making any payment hereunder to be
subrogated to the rights of the payee against an Eligible Subsidiary with respect to such payment
or otherwise to be reimbursed, indemnified or exonerated by or for the account of an Eligible
Subsidiary in respect thereof.

Section 10.06.  Stay of Acceleration.  In the event that acceleration of the time for payment
of any amount payable by any Eligible Subsidiary under this Agreement or its Notes is stayed upon
insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of such Eligible Subsidiary, all such amounts otherwise
subject to acceleration under the terms of this Agreement shall nonetheless be payable by the
Company hereunder forthwith on demand by the Administrative Agent made at the request of the
Required Lenders.

ARTICLE 11

Miscellaneous 

Section 11.01 . Notices.  All notices, requests and other communications to any party
hereunder shall be in writing (including bank wire, facsimile transmission or similar writing) and
shall be given to such party: (a) in the case of the Company at its address or facsimile number set
forth below, (b) in the case of the Administrative Agent, at its address or facsimile number set
forth below, (c) in the case of an Eligible Subsidiary, at its address or facsimile number set
forth in its Election to Participate), (d) in the case of any Lender, at its address or facsimile
number set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire or (e) in the case of any party, such other
address or facsimile number as such party may hereafter specify for the purpose by notice to the
Administrative Agent and the Company.

55 

Each such notice, request or other communication shall be effective (i) if given by facsimile,
when such facsimile is transmitted to the facsimile number specified in this Section 11.01 and the
appropriate answerback is received, (ii) if given by mail, 72 hours after such communication is
deposited in the mails with first class postage prepaid, addressed as aforesaid or (iii) if given
by any other means, when delivered at the address specified in this Section 11.01;  provided  that
notices to the Administrative Agent or an Issuing Lender under Article 2 or Article 8 shall not be
effective until received.

Company s Address :

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Attention: Treasurer 
5757 North Green Bay Avenue 
Post Office Box 591 
Milwaukee, WI 53209 
Fax:  (414) 524-2443 

Administrative Agent s Address: 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. 
1111 Fannin, 10th Floor 
Houston, Texas 77002 
Attention: Sharon P. Craft 
Fax: 713-750-2938 
Email: sharon.p.craft@jpmchase.com

Section 11.02 . No Waivers.  No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in
exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver
thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise
thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein
provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.

Section 11.03 . Expenses; Indemnification. 

(a) The Company shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative
Agent, including fees and disbursements of special counsel for the Administrative Agent, in
connection with the preparation of this Agreement, any waiver or consent hereunder or any amendment
hereof or any Default or alleged Default hereunder and (ii) if an Event of Default occurs, all
out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, including the fees and
disbursements of outside counsel and the allocated cost of inside counsel, in connection with such
Event of Default and collection, bankruptcy, insolvency and other enforcement proceedings resulting
therefrom.

56 

(b) The Company agrees to indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, their respective
affiliates and the respective directors, officers, agents and employees of the foregoing (each an
  Indemnitee  ) and hold each Indemnitee harmless from and against any and all liabilities, losses,
damages, costs and expenses of any kind, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and
disbursements of counsel, which may be incurred by such Indemnitee in connection with any
investigative, administrative or judicial proceeding (whether or not such Indemnitee shall be
designated a party thereto) brought or threatened relating to or arising out of this Agreement or
any actual or proposed use of proceeds of Loans hereunder;  provided  that no Indemnitee shall have
the right to be indemnified hereunder for such Indemnitee s own gross negligence or willful
misconduct or violation by such Indemnitee of any statute or regulation ( provided  that such
violation was not the result of any breach of statute or regulation or of any provision of this
Agreement by the Company or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries), all as determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction.

Section 11.04 . Sharing of Set-offs.  Each Lender agrees that if it shall, by exercising any
right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, receive payment of a proportion of the aggregate
amount of principal and interest due with respect to the Loans and Letter of Credit Liabilities
held by it which is greater than the proportion received by any other Lender in respect of the
aggregate amount of principal and interest due with respect to the Loans and Letter of Credit
Liabilities held by such other Lender, the Lender receiving such proportionately greater payment
shall purchase such participations in the Loans and Letter of Credit Liabilities held by the other
Lenders, and such other adjustments shall be made, as may be required so that all such payments of
principal and interest with respect to the Loans and Letter of Credit Liabilities held by the
Lenders shall be shared by the Lenders pro rata;  provided  that nothing in this Section 11.04 shall
impair the right of any Lender or its affiliates to exercise any right of set-off or counterclaim
it may have and to apply the amount subject to such exercise to the payment of indebtedness of a
Borrower other than its indebtedness hereunder. Each Borrower agrees, to the fullest extent it may
effectively do so under applicable law, that any holder of a participation in the Loans and Letter
of Credit Liabilities, whether or not acquired pursuant to the foregoing arrangements, may exercise
rights of set-off or counterclaim and other rights with respect to such participation as fully as
if such holder of a participation were a direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such
participation.

Section 11.05 . Amendments and Waivers.  Any provision of this Agreement or the Notes may be
amended or waived if, but only if, such amendment or waiver is in writing and is signed by the
Company and the Required Lenders (and, if the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent or any
Issuing Lender are affected thereby, by it);  provided  that no such amendment or waiver shall:

57 

(a) unless signed by each affected Lender, (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender
or subject any Lender to any additional obligation, (ii) reduce the principal of or rate of
interest on any Loan or the amount to be reimbursed in respect of any Letter of Credit or
any interest thereon or any fees hereunder, (iii) postpone the date fixed for any payment
of principal of or interest on any Loan or for reimbursement in respect of any Letter of
Credit or interest thereon or any fees hereunder or for termination of any Commitment, (iv)
release the Company from any obligation under Article 10, (v) permit the subordination of
any payment or right of payment due to the Lenders under the Loan Documents or (vi) modify
the right of a Lender to receive a pro rata share of payments as provided herein;

(b) unless signed by all the Lenders, change the definition of  Required Lenders  or
the provisions of this Section 11.05; or

(c) unless signed by an Eligible Subsidiary, (w) subject such Eligible Subsidiary to
any additional obligation, (x) increase the principal of or rate of interest on any
outstanding Loan of such Eligible Subsidiary, (y) accelerate the stated maturity of any
outstanding Loan of such Eligible Subsidiary or (z) change this proviso.

It is understood that the operation of Sections 2.01(c) and 2.20 in accordance with their terms is
not an amendment subject to this Section 11.05.

Section 11.06 . Successors and Assigns. 

(a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, except that no Borrower may assign or
otherwise transfer any of its rights under this Agreement without the prior written consent of all
Lenders.

(b) Any Lender may at any time grant to one or more Persons (each a   Participant  )
participating interests in its Commitment and/or any or all of its Loans and Letter of Credit
Liabilities. In the event of any such grant by a Lender of a participating interest to a
Participant, whether or not upon notice to any Borrower and the Administrative Agent, such Lender
shall remain responsible for the performance of its obligations hereunder, and the Borrowers, the
Issuing Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with such
Lender in connection with such Lender s rights and/or obligations hereunder. Any agreement
pursuant to which any Lender may grant such a participating interest shall provide that such Lender
shall retain the sole right and responsibility to enforce the obligations of the Borrowers
hereunder including, without limitation, the right to approve any amendment, modification or waiver
of any provision hereof;  provided  that such participation agreement may provide that

58 

such Lender will not agree to any modification, amendment or waiver of this Agreement
described in clause (a) of Section 11.05 without the consent of the Participant. The Borrowers
agree that each Participant shall, to the extent provided in its participation agreement, be
entitled to the benefits of Section 2.14 and Article 8 with respect to its participating interest.
An assignment or other transfer which is not permitted by subsection 11.06(c), 11.06(d) or 11.06(f)
below shall be given effect for purposes of this Agreement only to the extent of a participating
interest granted in accordance with this subsection 11.06(b).

(c) Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more banks or other institutions (each an
  Assignee  ) all, or a proportionate part (equivalent to an initial Commitment of not less than
$10,000,000) of all, of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and the Notes, and such
Assignee shall assume such rights and obligations, pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption
Agreement in substantially the form of Exhibit G hereto executed by such Assignee and such
transferor Lender, with (and subject to) the subscribed consent of the Company, the Administrative
Agent and each Issuing Lender, such consents not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed;  provided 
that if an Assignee is a Lender Affiliate of such transferor Lender or was a Lender immediately
prior to such assignment, no such consent of the Company shall be required. Upon execution and
delivery of such instrument and payment by such Assignee to such transferor Lender of an amount
equal to the purchase price agreed between such transferor Lender and such Assignee, such Assignee
shall be a Lender party to this Agreement and shall have all the rights and obligations of a Lender
with a Commitment as set forth in such instrument of assumption, and the transferor Lender shall be
released from its obligations hereunder to a corresponding extent, and no further consent or action
by any party shall be required. Upon the consummation of any assignment pursuant to this
subsection, the transferor Lender, the Administrative Agent and the Borrowers shall make
appropriate arrangements so that, if required, new Notes are issued to the Assignee. In connection
with any such assignment, the transferor Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent an
administrative fee for processing such assignment in the amount of $2,500.

(d) Any Lender may at any time assign all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement
and its Notes to a Federal Reserve Bank. No such assignment shall release the transferor Lender
from its obligations hereunder.

(e) No Assignee, Participant or other transferee of any Lender s rights shall be entitled to
receive any greater payment under Section 8.03 or 8.04 than such Lender would have been entitled to
receive with respect to the rights transferred, unless such transfer is made with the Company s
prior written consent or by reason of the provisions of Section 8.02, 8.03 or 8.04 requiring such
Lender to designate a different Applicable Lending Office under certain circumstances or

59 

at a time when the circumstances giving rise to such greater payment did not exist.

(f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 11.06, but subject to
the terms and conditions set forth in this subsection (f), any Lender may from time to time, elect
to designate a Conduit to provide all or any part of any Loan required to be made by such Lender
pursuant to this Agreement or to acquire a participation interest in any Loans extended by such
Lender hereunder (a   Conduit Designation  ),  provided  the designation of a Conduit by any Lender for
purposes of this Section 11.06(f) shall be subject to the approval of the Company, which shall not
be unreasonably withheld. No additional Note shall be required with regard to a Conduit
Designation;  provided, however , to the extent any Conduit shall advance funds under a Conduit
Designation, the designating Lender shall be deemed to hold the Note in its possession as an
Administrative Agent for such Conduit to the extent of the Loan funded by such Conduit.
Notwithstanding any such Conduit Designation, (x) the designating Lender shall remain solely
responsible to the other parties hereto for its obligations under this Agreement and (y) the
Borrowers and the Administrative Agent may continue to deal solely and directly with the
designating Lender as Administrative Agent for such designating Lender s Conduit, in connection
with all of such Conduit s rights and obligations under this Agreement, unless and until the
Company and the Administrative Agent are notified that the designating Lender has been replaced as
Administrative Agent for its Conduit; any payments for the benefit of any designating Lender and
its Conduit shall be paid to such designating Lender for itself as Administrative Agent for its
Conduit, as applicable;  provided  neither the Administrative Agent nor any Borrower shall be
responsible for any designating Lender s application of any such payments. In addition, any
Conduit may (i) with notice to, but without the consent of the Company and the Administrative
Agent, and without paying any processing fee therefor, assign all or portions of its interest in
any Loans to the Lender that designated such Conduit or to any financial institutions consented to
by the Company and the Administrative Agent providing liquidity and/or credit facilities to or for
the account of such Conduit to support the funding or maintenance of Loans and (ii) disclose on a
confidential basis any non-public information relating to its Loans to any rating agency,
commercial paper dealer or provider of any guarantee, surety, credit or liquidity enhancement to
such Conduit.

(g) Each party to this Agreement hereby agrees that, at any time a Conduit Designation is in
effect, it shall not institute against, or join any other person in instituting against, any
Conduit any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceeding or other
proceedings under any federal or state bankruptcy or similar law, for one year and a day after the
latest maturing commercial paper note issued by such Conduit is paid. This Section 11.06(g) shall
survive the termination of this Agreement.

60 

Section 11.07 . Collateral.  Each of the Lenders represents to the Administrative Agent and
each of the other Lenders that it in good faith is not relying upon any  margin stock  (as defined
in Regulation U) as collateral in the extension or maintenance of the credit provided for in this
Agreement.

Section 11.08 . Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction.  This Agreement and each Note shall
be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. Each Borrower
and each Lender hereby submits, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to the
nonexclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York
and of any New York State court sitting in New York City for purposes of all legal proceedings
arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. Each
Borrower and each Lender irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection
which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such proceeding brought in
such a court and any claim that any such proceeding brought in such a court has been brought in an
inconvenient forum.

Section 11.09 . Counterparts; Integration.  This Agreement may be signed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto
and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and
understanding among the parties hereto and supersedes any and all prior agreements and
understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof.

Section 11.10 . Waiver of Jury Trial.  EACH OF THE BORROWERS, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND THE
LENDERS HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING
ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.

Section 11.11 . Confidentiality. 

(a) The Lenders agree not to disclose, directly or indirectly, any information obtained from
the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with this Agreement and will keep such
information confidential;  provided  that (i) each Lender may use, retain and disclose any such
information to its affiliates, directors, officers, agents, employees, insurance brokers, counsel,
public accountants, any Participants, potential Assignees and Participants and any governmental
agency or instrumentality or other supervisory body requesting such disclosure,  provided  that any
Participants or potential Assignees or Participants shall have agreed to keep such information
confidential in accordance with this Section 11.11, (ii) each Lender may use, retain and disclose
any such information which has been publicly disclosed (other than by such Lender or any Lender
Affiliate thereof in breach of this Section 11.11), and (iii) to the extent that

61 

such Lender may have received a subpoena or other legal demand for such information, such
Lender may disclose such information;  provided  that such Lender shall notify the Company of such
demand (to the extent permitted by law and as promptly as practicable) and shall cooperate with the
Company, at the Company s expense, to take actions necessary to obtain a protective order limiting
the scope of the demand and the use and disclosure of such information.

(b) The parties hereby agree that, from the commencement of discussions with respect to the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement (the   Transactions  ), each party (and each employee,
representative or other agent of such party) may disclose to any and all persons, without
limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure (as such terms are used in Sections
6011, 6111 and 6112 of the Internal Revenue Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated
thereunder) of the Transactions and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax
analyses) that are provided to such party relating to such tax treatment and tax structure, other
than any information for which nondisclosure is reasonably necessary in order to comply with
applicable securities laws.

Section 11.12  USA Patriot Act . Each Lender hereby notifies the Borrowers that pursuant to the
requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26,
2001)) (the  Act ), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each
Borrower, which information includes the name and address of each Borrower and other information
that will allow such Lender, to identify each Borrower in accordance with the Act.

62 

</EX-4.E>

<EX-10.A>
 3
 c08525exv10wa.htm
 1992 STOCK OPTION PLAN

exv10wa 

Exhibit 10.A 

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 

1992 Stock Option Plan

(As amended through January 1, 2007)

1. 
       
      Establishment.  JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. (the  Company ) hereby establishes a stock option
plan for certain officers and other key employees, as described herein, which shall be known
as the JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 1992 STOCK OPTION PLAN (the  Plan ). It is intended that
certain of the stock options issued pursuant to the Plan may constitute incentive stock
options within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code ( Incentive Stock
Options ) and the remainder of the options issued pursuant to the Plan shall constitute
nonqualified options. Incentive Stock Options and nonqualified stock options are hereinafter
jointly referred to as  Options.  The Committee may also award stock appreciation rights
along with Options issued pursuant to the Plan and, subject to certain limitations, apart
from Options issued pursuant to the Plan. 

2. 
       
      Purpose.  The purpose of the Plan is to induce certain officers and other key employees to
remain in the employ of the Company or its subsidiaries and to encourage such employees to
secure or increase on reasonable terms their stock ownership in the Company. The Board of
Directors of the Company (the  Board of Directors ) believes that the Plan will promote
continuity of management and increased incentive and personal interest in the welfare of the
Company by those who are responsible for shaping and carrying out the long-range plans of the
Company and securing its continued growth and financial success. 

3. 
       
      Effective Date of the Plan.  The effective date of the Plan is the date of its adoption by
the Board of Directors, September 23, 1992, subject to the approval of the Plan by the
shareholders of the Company within twelve months of the effective date. Any and all Options
granted prior to such approval shall be subject to such approval. 

4. 
       
      Stock Subject to the Plan.  Subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 19, the total number of shares of the common stock of the Company ( Common Stock ),
available for awards during the term of this Plan shall not exceed 7,591,758 shares. Shares
of Common Stock to be delivered upon exercise of Options or settlement of stock appreciation
rights under the Plan shall be made available from presently authorized but unissued Common
Stock of the Company or authorized and issued shares of Common Stock reacquired and held as
treasury shares, or a combination thereof. If any Option or stock appreciation right shall
be canceled, expire or terminate without having been exercised in full, or to the extent a
stock appreciation right is settled in cash, the shares of Common Stock allocable to the
unexercised, canceled, forfeited portion of such Option or stock appreciation right, or
portion of such stock appreciation right which is settled in cash, shall again be available
for the purpose of the Plan. The surrender of any Options (and the surrender of any related
stock appreciation rights granted under paragraph 18) in connection with the receipt of stock
appreciation rights as 

provided in paragraph 18A shall, as to such Options, have the same
effect under this
paragraph 4 as the cancellation or termination of such Options without having been
exercised. If any stock appreciation rights are granted under the Plan separate and apart
from Options (including any grant in connection with the surrender of outstanding Options),
as provided in paragraph 18A, and shares of Common Stock may be issuable in connection with
such stock appreciation rights, then the grant of such stock appreciation rights shall be
deemed to have the same effect under this paragraph 4 as the grant of Options; provided,
however, if any such stock appreciation rights shall be canceled, expire or terminate
without having been exercised in full, or to the extent a stock appreciation right is
settled in cash, the shares of Common Stock allocable to the unexercised, canceled,
forfeited portion of such stock appreciation right, or portion of such stock appreciation
right which is settled in cash, shall again be available for the purpose of the Plan. If
the exercise price of any Option granted under the Plan is satisfied by tendering shares of
Common Stock to the Company (by either actual delivery or by attestation), only the number
of shares of Common Stock issued net of the shares of Common Stock tendered shall be deemed
delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of shares of Common Stock available
for delivery under the Plan. If any Participant satisfies the Company s withholding tax
requirements upon the exercise of an Option by properly electing to have the Company
withhold shares of Common Stock, then the shares of Common Stock so withheld shall again be
available for the purpose of the Plan, except that such shares shall not be available for
the granting of Incentive Stock Options. 

5. 
       
      Administration.  (a) The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (the
 Committee ) consisting of not less than three members of the Board of not less than three
members of the Board of Directors appointed from time to time by the Board of Directors. No
member of the Committee shall be, nor at any time during the preceding one-year period have
been, eligible to receive stock, stock options or stock appreciation rights of the Company or
of its subsidiaries pursuant to the Plan or any other plan of the Company or its
subsidiaries, other than a plan for directors of the Company who are not officers or
employees of the Company which provides for automatic grants without exercise of discretion
by any member of the Board of Directors, or by any officer or employee of the Company. 

(b) Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have authority to
establish such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or advisable for the proper
administration of the Plan, and in its discretion, to determine the individuals (the
 Participants ) to whom, and the time or times at which, Options and stock appreciation
rights shall be granted, the type of Options, the Option periods, limitations on Option
exercise, and the number of shares to be subject to each Option. In making such
determinations, the Committee may take into account the nature of the services rendered by
the respective employees, their present and potential contributions to the success of the
Company or its subsidiaries, and such other factors as the Committee, in its discretion,
shall deem relevant. 

2 

(c) Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall also have complete
authority to interpret the Plan, to prescribe, amend, and rescind rules and regulations
relating to it, to determine the terms and provisions of the respective Option Agreements
(which need not be identical) and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable
for the administration of the Plan. The Committee s determinations on the matters referred
to in this paragraph 5 shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties. 

(d) Neither the Committee nor any member thereof shall be liable for any act, omission,
interpretation, construction or determination made in connection with the Plan in good
faith, and the members of the Committee shall be entitled to indemnification and
reimbursement by the Company in respect of any claim, loss, damage or expense (including
attorneys fees) arising therefrom to the full extent permitted by law and under any
directors and officers liability insurance that may be in effect from time to time. 

(e) A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, and the acts of a majority of the
members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present, or acts approved in writing by
a majority of the Committee without a meeting, shall be the acts of the Committee. 

6. 
       
      Eligibility.  Options and stock appreciation rights may be granted to officers and other
key employees of the Company and of any of its present and future subsidiaries. The maximum
number of shares of Common Stock covered by Options which may be granted to any Participant
within any two consecutive calendar year periods shall not exceed 500,000 shares in the
aggregate. No Option or stock appreciation right shall be granted to any person who owns,
directly or indirectly, shares of stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting
power of all classes of stock of the Company. A director of the Company or of a subsidiary
who is not also an employee of the Company or of a subsidiary will not be eligible to receive
any Option or stock appreciation right hereunder. 

7. 
       
      Rights of Employees.  Nothing in this Plan or in any Option or stock appreciation right
shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company and any of its subsidiaries
to terminate any Participant s or employee s employment at any time, nor confer upon any
Participant or employee any right to continue in the employ of the Company and its
subsidiaries. 

8. 
       
      Option Agreements.  All Options and stock appreciation rights granted under the Plan shall
be evidenced by written agreements (an  Option Agreement ) in such form or forms as the
Committee shall determine. 

9. 
       
      Option Price.  The per share Option price for Options and for stock appreciation rights
granted under paragraph 18, and the per share grant price for stock appreciation rights
granted under paragraph 18A, as determined by the Committee, shall be an amount not less than
100% of the fair market value of the stock on the date such Options or stock appreciation
rights are granted (or, if the Committee so determines, in the case of any 

3 

stock appreciation
right granted under paragraph 18A upon the surrender of any outstanding Option, on the date
of grant of such Option). The fair market value of a share of stock on any date shall be the
average of the highest and lowest market prices of sales
of the Common Stock on that date, or on the next preceding trading day if such date was not
a trading day as reported on the New York Stock Exchange or as otherwise determined by the
Committee. However, effective January 1, 2007, in connection with an exercise of options,
to the extent the Participant sells any Shares acquired upon such exercise in a market
transaction on the date of exercise, the sale price(s) for any such Shares shall be the fair
market value. 

10. 
       
      Option Period.  The term of each Option and stock appreciation right shall be as determined
by the Committee but in no event shall the term of an Option or stock appreciation right
exceed a period of ten (10) years from the date of its grant. Each Option and stock
appreciation right granted hereunder may granted at any time on or after the effective date
of the Plan, and prior to its termination, provided that no Option or stock appreciation
right may be granted later than ten years after the date this Plan is adopted. The Committee
shall determine whether any Option or stock appreciation right shall become exercisable in
cumulative or non-cumulative installments or in full at any time. An exercisable Stock
Option or stock appreciation right, or portion thereof, may be exercised in whole or in part
only with respect to whole shares of Common Stock. 

11. 
       
      Maximum Value of Incentive Stock Options.  The aggregate fair market value (as defined in
paragraph 9) of the Common Stock for which any Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for
the first time by a Participant during any calendar year under the Plan or any other plan of
the Company or any subsidiary shall not exceed $100,000. To the extent the fair market value
of the shares of Common Stock attributable to Incentive Stock Options first exercisable in
any calendar year exceeds $100,000, the excess portion of the Incentive Stock Options shall
be treated as nonqualified options. 

12. 
       
      Transferability of Option or Stock Appreciation Right.  No Option or stock appreciation
right granted hereunder shall be transferable other than options specifically designated by
the Compensation Committee as such and meeting the following requirements of transfer: 

(a) 
       
     by will or by the laws of descent and distribution; or 

(b) 
       
     in the case of a nonqualified option: 

(i) 
       
     pursuant to a  Qualified Domestic Relations Order  as defined in
Section 414(p) of the Internal Revenue Code; or 

(ii) 
       
     to (A) his or her spouse, children or grandchildren ( Immediate
Family Members ), (B) a partnership in which the only partners are the
Participant s Immediate Family Members, or (C) a trust or trusts established
solely for the benefit of one or more of the Participant s Immediate Family 

4 

Members (collectively, the Permitted Transferees), provided that there may be no
consideration for any such transfer by a Participant 

Following transfer (if applicable), such Options and stock appreciation rights shall
continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior
to transfer, provided that such Options and stock appreciation rights may be exercised
during the life of the Participant only by the Participant or, if applicable, by the
alternate payee designated under a Qualified Domestic Relations Order or the Participant s
Permitted Transferees. 

13. 
       
      Exercise of Option; Deferral of Shares.  

(a) The Committee shall prescribe the manner in which a Participant may exercise an Option
which is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Plan. An Option may be exercised,
subject to limitations on its exercise contained in the Option Agreement and in this Plan,
in full, at any time, or in part, from time to time, only by (A) written notice of intent to
exercise the Option with respect to a specified number of shares, and (B) by payment in full
to the Company at the time of exercise of the Option, of the option price of the shares
being purchased. Payment of the Option price may be made (i) in cash, (ii) if permitted by
the applicable Option Agreement, by tendering of shares of Common Stock equivalent in fair
market value (as defined in paragraph 9), or (iii) if permitted by the applicable Option
Agreement, partly in cash and partly in shares of Common Stock. Common Stock may be
tendered either by actual delivery of shares of Common Stock or by attestation. 

(b) The Committee may provide one or more means to enable Participants and the Company to
defer delivery of shares of Common Stock deliverable upon exercise of an Option, on such
terms and conditions as the Committee may determine, including by way of example the manner
and timing of making a deferral election, the treatment of dividends paid on shares of
Common Stock during the deferral period and the permitted distribution dates or events. No
such deferral means may result in any increase in the number of shares of Common Stock
issuable hereunder other than as contemplated by paragraph 4 or paragraph 19 hereof. 

14. 
       
      Withholding.  If permitted by the applicable Option Agreement, a Participant may be
permitted to satisfy the Company s withholding tax requirements by electing (i) to have the
Company withhold shares of Common Stock of the Company, or (ii) to deliver to the Company
shares of Common Stock of the Company having a fair market value on the date income is
recognized on the exercise of a nonqualified option equal to the minimum amount required to
be withheld, or such greater amount as may be requested by the Participant. The election
shall be made in writing and according to such rules and in such form as the Committee shall
determine. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the election and satisfaction of any withholding requirement
through the withholding of Common Stock or the tender of shares of 

5 

Company Stock may be made
only at such times as are permitted, without incurring liabilities, by Rule 16b-3 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or such other securities laws, rules or
regulations as may be applicable. 

15. 
       
      intentionally omitted  

16. 
       
      intentionally omitted  

17. 
       
      Termination of Employment.  (a) In the event a Participant s employment with the Company or
any of its subsidiaries shall be terminated for any reason, except early retirement or total
and permanent disability, all rights to exercise an Option or stock appreciation right shall
terminate immediately. 

(b) If the Participant should die while employed by the Company or any subsidiary prior to
the expiration of the term of the Option or stock appreciation right, the Option or stock
appreciation right may be exercised by the person to whom it is transferred by will or by
the applicable laws of descent and distribution to the extent it could have been exercised
by the Participant had he lived, by giving notice as provided in paragraph 13, at any time
within twelve months after the date of death unless such Option or stock appreciation right
expires earlier under the terms of the Option Agreement. 

(c) In the event of termination of employment with the Company due to early or normal
retirement, or due to total and permanent disability prior to the expiration of the term of
an Option or stock appreciation right, the Option or stock appreciation right may be
exercised by the Participant, to the extent it could have been exercised had the Participant
remained actively employed, at any time within thirty-six months (except Incentive Stock
Options which may be exercised within three months) after the date of such early or normal
retirement or total permanent disability, as the case may be, unless such Option or stock
appreciation right expires earlier under the terms of the Option Agreement. Provided,
however, that for certain participants who are officers of the corporation or who are
selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board, nonqualified options granted after July
27, 1999, may be exercised by the Participant for five years of the Option or stock
appreciation right in the event of termination of employment with the Company due to early
or normal retirement, or due to total and permanent disability, prior to the expiration of
the term of the Option or stock appreciation right. For purposes hereof, a Participant s
employment shall be deemed to have terminated due to (a) early or normal retirement if such
Participant is then eligible to receive early or normal retirement benefits under the
provisions of any of the Company s or its subsidiaries pension plans; or, in the absence of
a pension plan, provided such Participant retires with ten years of service and is at least
55 years old or retires with five years of service and is at least 65 years old and (b)
total and permanent disability if he is permanently disabled within the meaning of Section
22(e)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, as in effect from time to time. 

For purposes of this Plan: (a) a transfer of an employee from the Company to a 50% or more
owned subsidiary, partnership, joint venture or other affiliate (whether or not 

6 

incorporated) or vice versa, or from one subsidiary, partnership, joint venture or other
affiliate to another or (b) a leave of absence duly authorized in writing by the Company,
provided the employee s right to re-employment is guaranteed either by statute or by
contract, shall not be deemed a termination of employment under the Plan. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, from and after a Change of Control, as defined in paragraph 22, Options
(other than Incentive Stock Options granted prior to May 24, 1989) and stock appreciation
rights shall continue to be exercisable for three months after a Participant s termination
of employment. 

18. 
       
      Stock Appreciation Rights.  Stock appreciation rights may be granted in conjunction with
all or part of any Option granted under the Plan. Stock appreciation rights may be exercised
by a Participant by surrendering the related Option or applicable portion thereof. Upon such
exercise and surrender, the Participant shall be entitled to receive the economic value of
such stock appreciation rights determined in the manner prescribed in subparagraph (b) of the
Paragraph 18 and in the form prescribed in subparagraph (c) of this Paragraph 18. Options
which have been so surrendered, in whole or in part, shall no longer be exercisable. Stock
appreciation rights shall be subject to such terms and conditions not inconsistent with other
provisions of the Plan as shall be determined by the Committee, which shall include the
following: 

(a) Stock appreciation rights shall be exercisable or transferable at such time or times and
only to the extent that the Option to which they relate is exercisable or transferable. 

(b) Upon the exercise of stock appreciation rights, a Participant shall be entitled to
receive the economic value thereof, which value shall be equal to the excess of the fair
market value of one share of Common Stock of the Company on the date of exercise over the
Option price per share, multiplied by the number of shares in respect of which the stock
appreciation rights shall have been exercised. 

(c) The Committee shall have sole discretion either (i) to determine the form in which
payment of such economic value will be made (i.e. cash, stock, or any combination thereof)
or (ii) to consent to or disapprove the election of the Participant to receive cash in full
or partial payment of such economic value. 

(d) The exercise of stock appreciation rights by a Participant pursuant to the Plan may be
made only at such times as are permitted by Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, without liabilities, or such other securities laws or rules as may be applicable. 

(e) Common Stock subject to the Option to which the stock appreciation rights relate exceeds
the exercise price of such Option. 

18A. 
       
      Other Stock Appreciation Rights.  Stock appreciation rights may also be granted separate
from any Option granted under the Plan to any Participant who at the time of grant is not
then an officer of the Company for purposes of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended (a  Section 16 Officer ). The Committee may also 

7 

grant stock appreciation
rights under this paragraph 18A to any person who is not then a Section 16 Officer in
connection with the surrender of any outstanding Option granted under the Plan prior to
September 22, 1993 (and the surrender of any related stock
appreciation rights granted under paragraph 18). Such stock appreciation rights may be
exercised by a Participant by written notice of intent to exercise the stock appreciation
rights delivered to the Committee, which notice shall state the number of shares of stock in
respect of which the stock appreciation rights are being exercised. Upon such exercise, the
Participant shall be entitled to receive the economic value of such stock appreciation
rights determined in the manner described in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph 18A and in
the form prescribed in subparagraph (c) of this paragraph 18A. 

Stock appreciation rights shall be subject to terms and conditions not inconsistent with
other provisions of the Plan as shall be determined by the Committee, which shall include
the following: 

(a) Stock appreciation rights granted in connection with the surrender of an Option shall be
exercisable or transferable at such time or times and only to the extent that the Option to
which they related was exercisable or transferable. The Committee shall have complete
authority to determine the terms and conditions applicable to other stock appreciation
rights, including the periods applicable to such rights, limitations on exercise and the
number of shares of stock in respect to which such stock appreciation rights are
exercisable. 

(b) Upon the exercise of stock appreciation rights, a Participant shall be entitled to
receive the economic value thereof, which value shall be equal to the excess of the fair
market value of one share of Common Stock of the Company on the date of exercise over the
grant price per share, multiplied by the number of shares in respect of which the stock
appreciation rights shall have been exercised. Stock appreciation rights which have been so
exercised shall no longer be exercisable in respect of such number of shares. 

(c) The Committee shall have the sole discretion either (i) to determine the form in which
payment of such economic value will be made (i.e., cash, stock, or any combination thereof)
or (ii) to consent to or disapprove the election of the Participant to receive cash in full
or partial payment of such economic value.(d) The exercise of stock appreciation rights by a
Participant pursuant to the Plan may be made only at such times as are permitted by Rule
16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, without liabilities, or such other securities
laws or rules as may be applicable.(e) Stock appreciation rights shall be exercisable only
when the fair market value of the Common Stock to which the stock appreciation rights relate
exceeds the grant price of such stock appreciation rights. 

19. 
       
      Adjustment Provisions.  In the event of any change in the shares of the Common Stock of the
Company by reason of a declaration of a stock dividend (other than a stock dividend declared
in lieu of an ordinary cash dividend), spin-off, merger, consolidation, recapitalization, or
split-up, combination or exchange of shares, or otherwise, the aggregate number and class of
shares available under this Plan  (including the per  

8 

Participant limit on awards in Section
6) , the number and class of shares subject to each outstanding Option and stock appreciation
right, and the option price or grant price and economic value of any stock appreciation
rights shall be appropriately adjusted by the
Committee, whose determination shall be final and conclusive.  Unless the Committee
determines otherwise, any such adjustment to an award that is exempt from Code Section 409A
shall be made in manner that permits the award to continue to be so exempt, and any
adjustment to an award that is subject to Code Section 409A shall be made in a manner that
complies with the provisions thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of a stock
dividend (other than a stock dividend declared in lieu of an ordinary cash dividend) or
split-up (including a reverse stock split), if no action is taken by the Committee,
adjustments contemplated by this subsection that are proportionate shall nevertheless
automatically be made as of the date of such stock dividend or split-up.  

20. 
       
      Termination and Amendment of Plan.  The Plan shall terminate on September 22, 2002, unless
sooner terminated as hereinafter provided. The Board of Directors may at any time terminate
the Plan, or amend the Plan as it shall deem advisable including (without limiting the
generality of the foregoing) any amendments deemed by the Board of Directors to be necessary
or advisable to assure conformity of the Plan and any Incentive Stock Options granted
thereunder to the requirements of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code as now or
hereafter in effect and to assure conformity with any requirements of other state and federal
laws or regulations now or hereafter in effect; provided, however, that the Board of
Directors may not, without further approval by the shareholders of the Company, make any
modifications which, by applicable law, require such approval. No termination or amendment
of the Plan may, without the consent of the Participant to whom any Option or stock
appreciation rights shall have been granted, adversely affect the rights of such Participant
under such Option or stock appreciation rights. The Board of Directors may also, in its
discretion, permit any Option or stock appreciation right to be exercised prior to the
earliest date fixed for exercise thereof under the Option Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, unless determined otherwise by the Board or Committee, any such amendment shall be
made in a manner that will enable an award intended to be exempt from Code Section 490A to
continue to be so exempt, or to enable an award intended to comply with Code Section 409A to
continue to so comply. 

21. 
       
      Rights of a Shareholder.  A Participant shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect
to shares covered by his or her Option until the date of issuance of the stock certificate to
the participant and only after such shares are fully paid or with respect to stock
appreciation rights. No adjustment will be made for dividends or other rights for which the
record date is prior to the date such stock is issued. 

22. 
       
      Change of Control.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon Change of Control, all previously
granted Options and stock appreciation rights shall immediately become exercisable to the
full extent of the original grant. For purposes of this Plan, a  Change of Control  means
any of the following events:(i) the acquisition, other than from the Company, by any
individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d) or 

9 

14(d)(2) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time) (the  Exchange Act ) of
beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of
20% or more of either (A) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the
 Outstanding Company Common Stock ) or (B) the
combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to
vote generally in the election of directors (the  Company Voting Securities ), provided,
however, that any acquisition by (x) the Company of any of its subsidiaries, or any employee
benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its
subsidiaries or (y) any corporation with respect to which, following such acquisition, more
than 60% of respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation
and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation
entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly
or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the
beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting
Securities immediately prior to such acquisition in substantially the same proportion as
their ownership, immediately prior to such acquisition of the Outstanding Company Common
Stock and Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, shall not constitute a change in
control of the Company; or (ii) individuals who, as of May 24, 1989, constitute the Board of
Directors of the Company (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least
a majority of the Board, provided that any individual becoming a director subsequent to May
24, 1989, whose election or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders was
approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent
Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board,
but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office is
in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the
Directors of the Company (as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A
promulgated under the Exchange Act); or (iii) approval by the shareholders of the Company of
a reorganization, merger or consolidation (a  Business Combination ), in each case, with
respect to which all or substantially all of the of the individuals and entities who were
the respective beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting
Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination do not, following such Business
Combination, beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the
then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then
outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as
the case may be, of the corporations resulting from such Business Combination in
substantially the same proportion as their ownership immediately prior to such Business
Combination or the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities, as the
case may be; or (iv) (A) a complete liquidation or dissolution of the company or a (B) sale
or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company other than to
a corporation with respect to which, following such sale or disposition, more than 60% of,
respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of
the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of
directors is then owned beneficially, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of 

10 

the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the
Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such
sale or disposition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the
Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities, as the case may be,
immediately prior to such sale or disposition. 

23. 
       
      Termination of Awards.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon a Change in Control, the
Committee may in its discretion, commencing at the time of a Change in Control and continuing
for a period of sixty days thereafter, cancel each outstanding Option or stock appreciation
right in exchange for a cash payment to the holder thereof in an amount equal to the number
of Options or stock appreciation rights that have not been exercised multiplied by the excess
of the fair market value per Share on the date of the Change in Control (or, if the Change in
Control is the result of a transaction or a series of transactions described in paragraphs
(i) or (ii) of the definition of Change in Control and the Option or stock appreciation right
is cancelled on the date of the Change in Control, the highest price per Share paid in such
transaction or series of transactions on the date of the Change in Control) over the exercise
price of the Option or the grant price of the stock appreciation right, as the case may be. 

24. 
       
      Governing Law.  The Plan, all awards hereunder, and all determinations made and actions
taken pursuant to the Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of Wisconsin and
construed in accordance therewith, to the extent not otherwise governed by the laws of the
United States. 

25. 
       
      Unfunded Plan.  This Plan shall be unfunded. No person shall have any rights greater than
those of a general creditor of the Company. 

26. 
       
      Code Section 409A.  The provisions of Code Section 409A are incorporated herein by
reference to the to the extent necessary for any award that is subject to Code Section 409A
to comply therewith. Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan, the Company does not
guarantee to any Participant or any other person with an interest in an award that any award
intended to be exempt from Code Section 409A shall be so exempt, nor that any award intended
to comply with Code Section 409A shall so comply, nor will the Company or any affiliate
indemnify, defend or hold harmless any individual with respect to the tax consequences of any
such failure. 

11 

</EX-10.A>

<EX-10.D>
 4
 c08525exv10wd.htm
 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

exv10wd 

Exhibit 10.D 

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 

DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR CERTAIN DIRECTORS 

ARTICLE 1.  

PURPOSE AND DURATION  

Section 1.1.   Purpose . The purpose of the Johnson Controls, Inc. Deferred
Compensation Plan for Certain Directors (the  Plan ) is to advance the Company s growth and
success, and to advance the interests of its shareholders, by attracting and retaining
well-qualified directors upon whose judgment the Company is largely dependent for the successful
conduct of its operations.

Section 1.2.   Duration . The Plan was originally effective on September 25, 1991.
The Plan was most recently amended and restated effective January 1, 2005. The Plan shall remain
in effect until terminated pursuant to the provisions of Article 9.

ARTICLE 2.  

DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION  

Section 2.1.   Definitions . Wherever used in the Plan, the following terms shall
have the meanings set forth below and, where the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the
word is capitalized:

(a)  Account  means the record keeping account or accounts maintained to record the interest
of each Participant under the Plan. An Account is established for record keeping purposes only and
not to reflect the physical segregation of assets on the Participant s behalf, and may consist of
such subaccounts or balances as the Administrator may determine to be necessary or appropriate.

(b)  Act  means the Securities Act of 1933, as interpreted by regulations and rules issued
pursuant thereto, all as amended and in effect from time to time. Any reference to a specific
provision of the Act shall be deemed to include reference to any successor provision thereto.

(c)  Administrator  means the Employee Benefits Policy Committee of the Company.

(d)  Affiliate  means each entity that is required to be included in the Company s controlled
group of corporations within the meaning of Code Section 414(b), or that is under common control
with the Company within the meaning of Code Section 414(c).

(e)  Beneficiary  means the person(s) or entity(ies) designated by a Participant to be his
beneficiary for purposes of this Plan as provided in Section 6.5.

(f)  Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company.

(g)  Change of Control  has the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 8.2.

(h)  Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as interpreted by regulations and rulings
issued pursuant thereto, all as amended and in effect from time to time. Any reference to a
specific provision of the Code shall be deemed to include reference to any successor provision
thereto.

(i)  Committee  means the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board, which shall consist of
not less than two members of the Board, each of whom shall be a non-employee director within the
meaning of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act.

(j)  Company  means Johnson Controls, Inc. and its successors as provided in Section 9.9.

(k)  Deferral  means the amount credited, in accordance with a Participant s election, to the
Participant s Account in lieu of the payment in cash or Shares.

(l)  Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as interpreted by regulations
and rules issued pursuant thereto, all as amended and in effect from time to time. Any reference
to a specific provision of the Exchange Act shall be deemed to include reference to any successor
provision thereto.

(m)  Fair Market Value  means with respect to a Share, except as otherwise provided herein,
the closing sales price of a Share on the New York Stock Exchange as of 4:00 p.m. EST on the date
in question (or the immediately preceding trading day if the date in question is not a trading
day), and with respect to any other property, such value as is determined by the Administrator.

(n)  Inimical Conduct  means any act or omission that is inimical to the best interests of the
Company or any Affiliate or other, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, including
but not limited to: (1) divulging at any time any confidential information, technical or otherwise,
obtained by a Participant in his capacity as a director, (2) taking any steps or doing anything
which would damage or negatively reflect on the reputation of the Company or any subsidiary, or (3)
refusing to furnish such advisory or consulting services as the Company may reasonably request and
as the Participant s health may permit,  provided  that such services shall be rendered as an
independent contractor and not as an employee and that the Company shall pay reasonable
compensation for such services, as well as reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection
therewith.

(o)  Investment Options  means the investment options offered under the Johnson Controls
Savings and Investment (401k) Plan (excluding the Company stock fund) or any successor plan
thereto, the Share Unit Account, and any other alternatives made available by the Administrator,
which shall be used for the purpose of measuring hypothetical investment experience attributable to
a Participant s Account.

(p)  Outside Director  means a member of the Board who is not an officer or employee of the
Company or a subsidiary.

(q)  Participant  means an Outside Director who has elected to make Deferrals hereunder.
Where the context so requires, a Participant also means a former director entitled to a benefit
hereunder.

2 

(r)  Separation from Service  means the cessation of service as a Board member, for any
reason, provided the cessation of service is a good-faith and complete termination of the
relationship with the Company. If, at the time of the cessation of service, the Participant
anticipates a significant contractual relationship with the Company as a consultant or becoming an
employee, then such cessation of service as a Board member does not constitute a good-faith and
complete termination of the relationship with the Company.

(s)  Share  means a share of common stock of the Company.

(t)  Share Unit Account  means the account described in Article 7, which is deemed invested in
Shares.

(u)  Share Units  means the hypothetical Shares that are credited to the Share Unit Accounts
in accordance with Article 7.

(v)  Unforeseeable Emergency  means a severe financial hardship of the Participant, resulting
from any of the following:

(1) an illness or accident of the Participant, his or her spouse or
dependent (as defined in Code Section 152(a));

(2) a loss of the Participant s property due to casualty (including
the need to rebuild a home following damage to a home not otherwise
covered by insurance, for example, as a result of a natural
disaster); or

(3) other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances
arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant,
as determined by the Administrator.

(w)  Valuation Date  means each day when the United States financial markets are open for
business, as of which the Administrator will determine the value of each Account and will make
allocations to Accounts.

Section 2.2.   Construction . Wherever any words are used in the masculine, they
shall be construed as though they were used in the feminine in all cases where they would so apply;
and wherever any words are use in the singular or the plural, they shall be construed as though
they were used in the plural or the singular, as the case may be, in all cases where they would so
apply. Titles of articles and
sections are for general information only, and the Plan is not to be construed by reference to such
items.

Section 2.3.   Severability . In the event any provision of the Plan is held illegal
or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the
Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not
been included.

3 

ARTICLE 3.  

PARTICIPATION  

Each Outside Director shall be eligible to become a Participant on the date the individual is
first elected to become an Outside Director.

ARTICLE 4.  

DEFERRED COMPENSATION  

Section 4.1.   Deferral Election . An Outside Director may elect, prior to the
beginning of each calendar year, to defer all or any part of his compensation as a director which
is paid by the Company (in cash or Shares) in the following year. As of the first day of the
calendar year for which the election is made, the Participant s deferral election shall be
irrevocable except as provided in Section 4.2. A Participant who fails to complete a new election
for any calendar year shall be deemed to have elected to continue his most recent election in
effect without change.

In the first year an Outside Director is elected to the Board, such individual may elect, within
the first thirty (30) days after being elected, to defer all or any portion of his compensation as
a director which is otherwise payable by the Company for services provided after the first day of
the calendar quarter that follows the date of the election. The election in effect as of the last
day of the thirty (30) day election period shall be irrevocable for the remainder of the Plan Year,
except as provided in Section 4.2.

Any such compensation deferred pursuant to a valid election shall be credited by the Company to the
Participant s Account at the time it would have otherwise been paid to the Participant (whether in
cash or Shares).

Section 4.2.   Cancellation of Deferral Elections . If a Participant receives a
distribution due to an Unforeseeable Emergency and requests cancellation of his or her deferral
election under Section 4.1, or if the Administrator determines that such deferral election must be
cancelled in order for the Participant to receive a distribution due to an Unforeseeable Emergency,
then the Participant s deferral election(s) shall be cancelled. A Participant whose deferral
election is cancelled pursuant to this Section 4.2 may make a new deferral election under Sections
4.1 with respect to future fees, unless otherwise prohibited by the Administrator.   

Section 4.3.   Administration of Deferral Elections . All deferral elections
must be made in the form and manner and within such time periods as the Administrator prescribes in
order to be effective.

ARTICLE 5. HYPOTHETICAL INVESTMENT OPTIONS  

Section 5.1.   Investment Election . Amounts credited to a Participant s Account
shall reflect the investment experience of the Investment Options selected by the Participant;
provided that any deferral of Shares shall automatically be deemed invested in the Share Unit
Account. The Participant may make an initial investment election at the time of enrollment in the
Plan in whole increments of one percent (1%). A Participant may also elect to reallocate his or
her Account, and may elect to allocate any future Deferrals, among the various Investment Options

4 

in whole increments of one percent (1%) from time to time as prescribed by the Administrator;
provided that any deferral of Shares shall not be eligible for re-allocation out of the Share Unit
Account. Such investment elections shall remain in effect until changed by the Participant. All
investment elections shall become effective as soon as practicable after receipt of such election
by the Administrator or its designee, and must be made in the form and manner and within such time
periods as the Administrator prescribes in order to be effective. In the absence of an effective
election, with respect to Participants who make an initial deferral election on or after October 1,
2006, the Participant s Account shall be deemed invested in the default fund specified for the
Johnson Controls Inc. Savings and Investment (401k) Plan (or any successor plan thereto). For
Participants whose initial deferral election was made prior to October 1, 2006, the default fund is
the Share Unit Account.

Deferrals will be deemed invested in an Investment Option as of the date on which the
Deferrals would have otherwise been paid to the Participant.

On each Valuation Date, the Administrator or its designee shall credit the deemed investment
experience with respect to the selected Investment Options to each Participant s Account.

Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company retains the right to allocate
actual amounts hereunder without regard to a Participant s request.

Section 5.2.   Securities Law Restrictions . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
herein, all elections under Article 5 or 6 by a Participant who is subject to Section 16 of the
Exchange Act are subject to review by the Administrator prior to implementation. In accordance
with Section 9.3, the Administrator may restrict additional transactions, rescind transactions, or
impose other rules and procedures, to the extent deemed desirable by the Administrator in order to
comply with the Exchange Act, including, without limitation, application of the review and approval
provisions of this Section 5.2 to Participants who are not subject to Section 16 of the Exchange
Act.

Section 5.3.   Accounts are For Record Keeping Purposes Only . Plan Accounts and the
record keeping procedures described herein serve solely as a device for determining the amount of
benefits accumulated by a Participant under the Plan, and shall not constitute or imply an
obligation on the part of the Company to fund such benefits. In any event, the Company may, in its
discretion, set aside assets equal to part or all of such Account balances and invest such assets
in Company stock, life insurance or any other investment deemed appropriate. Any such assets,
including Company stock, shall be and remain the sole property of the employer that set aside such
assets, and a Participant shall have no proprietary rights of any nature whatsoever with respect to
such assets.

ARTICLE 6.  

DISTRIBUTION  

Section 6.1.   General . A Participant, at the time he makes an initial Deferral
election under the Plan, may elect the form of distribution with respect to his Account. Such
election

5 

shall be made in such form and manner as the Administrator may prescribe, and shall be
irrevocable The election shall specify whether distributions shall be made in a single lump sum or
from two (2) to ten (10) annual installments. In the absence of a distribution election, payment
shall be made in ten (10) annual installments.

Section 6.2.   Time of Distribution .

(a)  Separation from Service . Upon a Participant s Separation from Service for any
reason, the Participant, or his Beneficiary in the event of his death, shall be entitled to payment
of the amount accumulated in such Participant s Account.

(b)  Earlier Distribution . Notwithstanding the foregoing, a distribution may be made
prior to the date specified in subsection (a) as follows:

(1) If an amount deferred under this Plan is required to be included
in income under Code Section 409A prior to the date such amount is
actually distributed, a Participant shall receive a distribution, in
a lump sum as soon as practicable after the date the Plan fails to
meet the requirements of Code Section 409A, of the amount required
to be included in the Participant s income as a result of such
failure.

(2) If an amount under the Plan is required to be immediately
distributed in a lump sum under a domestic relations order within
the meaning of Code Section 414(p)(1)(B), it may be distributed
according to the terms of such order, provided the Participant holds
the Administrator harmless with respect to such distribution. The
Plan shall not distribute amounts required to be distributed under a
domestic relations order other than in the limited circumstance
specifically stated herein.

Section 6.3.   Manner of Distribution . The Participant s Account shall be paid in
cash in the following manner:

(a)  Lump Sum . If payment is to be made in a lump sum, payment shall be made in the
first calendar quarter following the calendar quarter in which the Participant s Separation from
Service occurs.

The lump sum payment shall equal the balance of the Participant s Account as of the Valuation
Date immediately preceding the distribution date.

(b)  Installments . If payment is to be made in annual installments, the first annual
payment shall be made in the first calendar quarter following the calendar quarter in which the
Participant s Separation from Service occurs. The amount of the first annual payment shall equal
the value of 1/10 th  (or 1/9 th , 1/8 th , 1/7 th , etc.
depending on the number of installments elected) of the balance of the Participant s Account as of
the Valuation Date immediately preceding the distribution date.

6 

All subsequent annual payments shall be made in the first calendar quarter of each subsequent
calendar year, and shall be in an amount equal to the value of 1/9 th  (or
1/8 th , 1/7 th , 1/6 th , etc. depending on the number of installments
elected) of the balance of the Participant s Account as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding
the distribution date. The final annual installment payment shall equal the then remaining
balance of such Account as of the Valuation Date preceding such final payment date.

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, if the balance of a Participant s Account at any
distribution date is less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) during the payout period, the
remaining balance shall be paid in the form of a lump sum on (or as soon as practicable following)
such distribution date.

(c)  Delay in Payment . Notwithstanding the foregoing, a distribution may be delayed
beyond the date it would have otherwise been paid under subsection (a) or (b) in the
following circumstances:

(1) If the distribution will violate the terms of a loan agreement
or other similar contract to which the Company or an Affiliate, as
applicable, is a party, and if any such violation will cause
material harm to the Company or Affiliate, the distribution shall be
delayed until the first date that a violation will not occur or the
violation will not cause material harm to the Company or an
Affiliate.

(2) If the distribution will violate the terms of Section 16(b) of
the Exchange Act or other Federal securities laws, or any other
applicable law, then the distribution shall be delayed until the
earliest date on which making the distribution will not violate such
law.

Section 6.4.   Forfeiture of Distributions . If a Participant engages in Inimical
Conduct prior to the distribution of the balance of his Account, the remaining balance of such
Account shall be forfeited as of the date the Committee determines the Participant has engaged in
Inimical Conduct. The Committee may suspend payments (without liability for interest thereon)
pending its determination of whether the Participant has engaged in Inimical Conduct.

Section 6.5.   Distribution of Remaining Account Following Participant s Death .

(a)  Distribution . In the event of the Participant s death prior to receiving all
payments due hereunder, the balance of the Participant s Account shall be paid to the Participant s
Beneficiary in a lump sum as soon as practicable after the Participant s death.

(b)  Designation of Beneficiary . Each Participant may designate a Beneficiary in such
form and manner and within such time periods as the Administrator may prescribe. A Participant can
change his beneficiary designation at any time, provided that each beneficiary designation shall
revoke the most recent designation, and the last designation received by the Administrator while
the Participant is alive shall be given effect. If a Participant designates a Beneficiary without
providing in the designation that the Beneficiary must be living at the time of distribution, the
designation shall vest in the Beneficiary all of the distribution payable after

7 

the Participant s
death, and any distributions remaining upon the Beneficiary s death shall be made to the
Beneficiary s estate. If there is no valid beneficiary designation in effect at the time of the
Participant s death, in the event the Beneficiary does not survive the Participant, or in the event
that the beneficiary designation provides that the Beneficiary must be living at the time of each
distribution and such designated Beneficiary does not survive to a distribution date, the
Participant s estate will be deemed the Beneficiary and will be entitled to receive payment. If a
Participant designates his spouse as a Beneficiary, such beneficiary designation automatically
shall become null and void on the date the Administrator receives notice of the Participant s
divorce or legal separation.

Section 6.6.   Distribution in Event of Unforeseeable Emergency . If requested by a
Participant while an Outside Director and if the Administrator determines that an Unforeseeable
Emergency has occurred, all or part of the Participant s vested Account may be paid out to the
Participant in a cash lump sum. The amount to be distributed to the Participant shall only be such
amount as is needed to alleviate the Participant s Unforeseeable Emergency, including any Federal,
state or local income taxes or penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the distribution,
after taking into account the extent to which the emergency is or may be relieved through
reimbursement or compensation from insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participant s
assets (to the extent such liquidation would not itself cause a severe financial hardship), or by
cessation of deferrals under the Plan.

Section 6.7.   Tax Withholding . The Company shall have the right to deduct from any
deferral or payment made hereunder, or from any other amount due a Participant, the amount of cash
and/or Fair Market Value of Shares sufficient to satisfy the Company s or Affiliate s foreign,
federal, state or local income tax withholding obligations with respect to such deferral (or
vesting thereof) or payment. In addition, if prior to the date of distribution of any amount
hereunder, the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax imposed under Code Sections 3101,
3121(a) and 3121(v)(2), where applicable, becomes due, the Participant s Account balance shall be
reduced by the amount needed to pay the Participant s portion of such tax.

Section 6.8.   Offset . The Company shall have the right to offset from any amount
payable hereunder any amount that the Participant owes to the Company or any Affiliate without the
consent of the Participant (or his Beneficiary, in the event of the Participant s death).

ARTICLE 7.  

RULES WITH RESPECT TO SHARE UNITS  

Section 7.1.   Valuation of Share Unit Account . When any amounts are to be
allocated to a Share Unit Account (whether in the form of Deferrals or amounts that are deemed
re-allocated from another Investment Option), such amount shall be converted to whole and
fractional Share Units, with fractional units calculated to three decimal places, by dividing the
amount to be allocated by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the effective date of such
allocation. If any dividends or other distributions are paid on Shares while a Participant has
Share Units credited to his Account, such Participant shall be credited with a dividend award equal
to the amount of the cash dividend paid or Fair Market Value of other property distributed on one
Share, multiplied by the number of Share Units credited to his Share Unit Account on the

8 

date the
dividend is declared. The dividend award shall be converted into additional Share Units as
provided above using the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the dividend is paid or
distributed. Any other provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, if a dividend is
paid on Shares in the form of a right or rights to purchase shares of capital stock of the Company
or any entity acquiring the Company, no additional Share Units shall be credited to the
Participant s Share Unit Account with respect to such dividend, but each Share Unit credited to a
Participant s Share Unit Account at the time such dividend is paid, and each Share Unit thereafter
credited to the Participant s Share Unit Account at a time when such rights are attached to Shares,
shall thereafter be valued as of any point in time on the basis of the aggregate of the then Fair
Market Value of one Share plus the then Fair Market Value of such right or rights then attached to
one Share.

Section 7.2.   Transactions Affecting Common Stock . In the event of any merger,
share exchange, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split or
other change in corporate structure of the Company affecting Shares, the Committee may make
appropriate equitable adjustments with respect to the Share Units credited to the Share Unit
Accounts of each Participant, including without limitation,
adjusting the date as of which such units are valued and/or distributed, as the Committee
determines is necessary or desirable to prevent the dilution or enlargement of the benefits
intended to be provided under the Plan.

Section 7.3.   No Shareholder Rights With Respect to Share Units . Participants shall
have no rights as a stockholder pertaining to Share Units credited to their Accounts. No
individual shall have any right to receive a distribution of Company stock under this Plan. All
distributions from the Share Unit Account are made in cash.

ARTICLE 8.  

SPECIAL RULES APPLICABLE IN THE EVENT OF A CHANGE OF CONTROL OF THE COMPANY  

Section 8.1.   Acceleration of Payment of Accounts . Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Plan, within 30 days after a Change of Control, each Participant, including
Participants receiving installment payments under the Plan, shall be entitled to receive a lump sum
payment in cash of all amounts accumulated in such Participant s Account. Such payment shall be
made as soon as practicable following the Change of Control.

In determining the amount accumulated in a Participant s Share Unit Account, each Share Unit
shall have a value equal to the higher of (a) the highest reported sales price, regular way, of a
share of the Company s common stock on the Composite Tape for New York Stock Exchange Listed Stocks
(the  Composite Tape ) during the sixty-day period prior to the date of the Change of Control of
the Company and (b) if the Change of Control of the Company is the result of a transaction or
series of transactions described in Section 8.2(a), the highest price per Share of the Company paid
in such transaction or series of transactions.

Section 8.2.   Definition of a Change of Control . A Change of Control means any of
the following events, provided that each such event would constitute a change of control within the
meaning of Code Section 409A:

9 

(a) The acquisition, other than from the Company, by any individual, entity or group of
beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule l3d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act),
including in connection with a merger, consolidation or reorganization, of more than either:

(1) Fifty percent (50%) of the then outstanding shares of common
stock of the Company (the  Outstanding Company Common Stock ) or

(2) Thirty-five (35%) of the combined voting power of the then
outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote
generally in the election of directors (the  Company Voting
Securities ),

provided, however , that any acquisition by (x) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or any
employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its
subsidiaries or (y) any corporation with respect to which, following such acquisition, more than
60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the
combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to
vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by
all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners,
respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities immediately
prior to such acquisition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership, immediately
prior to such acquisition, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities,
as the case may be, shall not constitute a Change in Control of the Company; or

(b) Individuals who, as of January 1, 2005, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease
for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board during any 12-month period,  provided 
that any individual becoming a director subsequent to January 1, 2005, whose election or nomination
for election by the Company s shareholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the
directors then comprising the Incumbent Board, shall be considered as though such individual were a
member of the Incumbent Board; or

(c) A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or sale or other disposition of all
or substantially all of the assets of the Company other than to a corporation with respect to
which, following such sale or disposition, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding
shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities
entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then owned beneficially, directly or
indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial
owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities
immediately prior to such sale or disposition in substantially the same proportion as their
ownership of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities, as the case may
be, immediately prior to such sale or disposition. For purposes hereof,  a sale or other
disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company  will not be deemed to have
occurred if the sale involves assets having a total gross fair market value of less than forty
percent (40%) of the total gross fair market value of all assets of the Company immediately prior
to the acquisition. For this purpose,  gross fair market value  means the value of the assets
without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets.

10 

For purposes of this Section 8.2, persons will not be considered to be acting as a  group 
solely because they purchase or own stock of the Company at the same time, or as a result of the
same public offering. However, persons will be considered to be acting as a  group  if they are
owners of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock,
or similar business transaction with the Company. If a person, including an entity, owns stock in
the Company and any other corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or
acquisition of stock, or similar transaction, such shareholder is considered to be acting as a
group with other shareholders in such corporation only with respect to the ownership in that
corporation prior to the transaction giving rise to the change and not with respect to the
ownership interest in the Company.

ARTICLE 9.  

GENERAL PROVISIONS  

Section 9.1.   Administration .

(a)  General . The Committee shall have overall authority with respect to administration of
the Plan;  provided  that the Administrator shall have responsibility for the general operation and
daily administration of the Plan as specified herein. If at any time the Committee shall not be in
existence or not be composed of members of the Board who qualify as  non-employee directors , then
the Board shall administer the Plan (with the assistance of the Administrator) and all references
herein to the Committee shall be deemed to include the Board. The Committee or Administrator may,
in its discretion, delegate any or all of its authority and responsibility;  provided  that the
Committee shall not delegate authority and responsibility with respect to non-ministerial functions
that relate to the participation by Participants who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act
at the time any such delegated authority or responsibility is exercised. To the extent of any such
delegation, any references herein to the Committee or Administrator, as applicable, shall be deemed
references to such delegatee. Interpretation of the Plan shall be within the sole discretion of
the Committee or the Administrator with respect to their respective duties hereunder. If any
delegatee of the Committee or the Administrator shall also be a Participant or Beneficiary, any
determinations affecting the delegatee s participation in the Plan shall be made by the Committee
or Administrator, as applicable.

(b)  Authority and Responsibility . In addition to the authority specifically provided
herein, the Committee and the Administrator shall have the discretionary authority to take any
action or make any determination it deems necessary for the proper administration of its respective
duties under the Plan, including but not limited to: (1) prescribe rules and regulations for the
administration of the Plan; (2) prescribe forms for use with respect to the Plan; (3) interpret and
apply all of the Plan s provisions, reconcile inconsistencies or supply omissions in the Plan s
terms; and (4) make appropriate determinations, including factual determinations, and calculations.
Any action taken by the Committee shall be controlling over any contrary action of the
Administrator. The Committee or Administrator may delegate its ministerial duties to a third party
and to the extent of such delegation, references to the Committee or Administrator hereunder shall
mean such delegatee.

(c)  Decisions Binding . The Committee s and the Administrator s determinations shall be
final and binding on all parties with an interest hereunder.

11 

(d)  Procedures for Administration . The Committee s determinations must be made by not less
than a majority of its members present at the meeting (in person or otherwise) at which a quorum is
present, or by written majority consent, which sets forth the action, is signed by the members of
the Committee and filed with the minutes for proceedings of the Committee. A majority of the
entire Committee
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Administrator s determinations shall
be made in accordance with such procedures it establishes.

(e)  Indemnification . Service on the Committee or with the Administrator shall
constitute service as a director or officer of the Company so that the Committee and Administrator
members shall be entitled to indemnification, limitation of liability and reimbursement of expenses
with respect to their Committee or Administrator services to the same extent that they are entitled
under the Company s By-laws and Wisconsin law for their services as directors or officers of the
Company.

Section 9.2.   Participants Rights Unsecured .

(a)  Unsecured Claim . The right of a Participant or his Beneficiary to receive a
distribution hereunder shall be an unsecured claim, and neither the Participant nor any Beneficiary
shall have any rights in or against any amount credited to his Account or any other specific assets
of the Company or a subsidiary. The right of a Participant or Beneficiary to the payment of
benefits under this Plan shall not be assigned, encumbered or transferred, except as permitted
under Section 6.5. The rights of a Participant hereunder are exercisable during the Participant s
lifetime only by him or his guardian or legal representative.

(b)  Contractual Obligation . The Company may authorize the creation of a trust or other
arrangements to assist it in meeting the obligations created under the Plan. However, any
liability to any person with respect to the Plan shall be based solely upon any contractual
obligations that may be created pursuant to the Plan. No obligation of the Company shall be deemed
to be secured by any pledge of, or other encumbrance on, any property of the Company or any
subsidiary. Nothing contained in this Plan and no action taken pursuant to its terms shall create
or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and
any Participant or Beneficiary, or any other person.

Section 9.3.   Amendment or Termination of the Plan .

(a)  Amendment . The Committee may at any time amend the Plan, including but not
limited to modifying the terms and conditions applicable to (or otherwise eliminating) Deferrals to
be made on or after the amendment date;  provided, however,  that no amendment may reduce or
eliminate any Account balance accrued to the date of such amendment (except as such Account balance
may be reduced as a result of investment losses allocable to such Account) without a Participant s
consent except as otherwise specifically provided herein; and  provided further  that the Board must
approve any amendment that expands the class of employees eligible for participation under the
Plan, that materially increases the benefits provided hereunder, or , that is required to be
approved by the Board by any applicable law or the listing requirements of the national securities
exchange upon which the Company s common stock is then traded. In addition, the Administrator may
at any time amend the Plan to make administrative changes and changes necessary to comply with
applicable law.

12 

(b)  Termination . The Committee may terminate the Plan in accordance with the
following provisions. Upon termination of the Plan, any deferral elections then in effect shall be
cancelled.

(1) The Committee may terminate the Plan within twelve (12) months
of a corporate dissolution taxed under Code Section 331, or with the
approval of a bankruptcy court pursuant to 11 U.S.C.  503(b)(1)(A),
provided that the amounts accrued under the Plan are distributed to
the Participants or Beneficiaries, as applicable, in a single sum
payment, regardless of any distribution election then in effect, in
the later of: (A) the calendar year in which the Plan termination
occurs or (B) the first calendar year in which payment is
administratively practicable.

(2) The Committee may terminate the Plan at any time during the
period that begins thirty (30) days prior and ends twelve (12)
months following a Change of Control, provided that all
substantially similar arrangements (within the meaning of Code
Section 409A) sponsored by the Company are terminated, so that all
participants under similar arrangements are required to receive all
amounts of compensation deferred under the terminated arrangements
within twelve (12) months of the date of termination of the
arrangements.

(3) The Committee may terminate the Plan at any other time. In such
event, the balance of all Accounts will be distributed to all
Participants or Beneficiaries, as applicable, in a single sum
payment mo earlier than twelve (12) months (and no later than
twenty-four (24) months) after the date of termination, regardless
of any distribution election then in effect. This provision shall
not be effective unless all other plans required to be aggregated
with this Plan under Code Section 409A are also terminated.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment that would otherwise be
paid during the twelve (12)-month period beginning on the Plan
termination date pursuant to the terms of the Plan shall be paid in
accordance with such terms. In addition, the Company or any
Affiliate shall be prohibited from adopting a similar arrangement
within five (5) years following the date of the Plan s termination,
unless any individual who was a Participant under this Plan is
excluded from participating thereunder for such five (5) year
period.

Section 9.4.   Restrictions to Comply with Applicable Law . All transactions under
the Plan are intended to comply with all applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange
Act. The Committee and the Administrator shall administer the Plan so that transactions under the
Plan will be exempt from or comply with Section 16 of the Exchange Act, and shall have the

13 

right to restrict or rescind any transaction, or impose other
rules and requirements, to the extent it deems necessary or desirable for such exemption or
compliance to be met.

Section 9.5.   Administrative Expenses . Costs of establishing and administering
the Plan will be paid by the Company.

Section 9.6.   Successors and Assigns . This Plan shall be binding upon and
inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns and the Participants and their
heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives.

Section 9.7.   Governing Law; Limitation on Actions; Dispute Resolution .

(a)  Governing Law . This Plan and the rights and obligations hereunder shall be governed by
and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Wisconsin (excluding any choice
of law rules that may direct the application of the laws of another jurisdiction).

(b)  Arbitration .

(1)  Application . If a Participant or Beneficiary brings a claim that
relates to benefits under this Plan, regardless of the basis of the claim, such
claim shall be settled by final binding arbitration in accordance with the rules of
the American Arbitration Association ( AAA ) and judgment upon the award rendered by
the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.

(2)  Initiation of Action . Arbitration must be initiated by serving or
mailing a written notice of the complaint to the other party. Normally, such
written notice should be provided to the other party within one year (365 days)
after the day the complaining party first knew or should have known of the events
giving rise to the complaint. However, this time frame may be extended if the
applicable statute of limitations provides for a longer period of time. If the
complaint is not properly submitted within the appropriate time frame, all rights
and claims that the complaining party has or may have against the other party shall
be waived and void. Any notice sent to the Company shall be delivered to:

Office of General Counsel 
Johnson Controls, Inc. 
5757 North Green Bay Avenue 
P.O. Box 591 
Milwaukee, WI 53201-0591

The notice must identify and describe the nature of all complaints asserted and the
facts upon which such complaints are based. Notice will be deemed given according
to the date of any postmark or the date of time of any personal delivery.

(3)  Compliance with Personnel Policies . Before proceeding to arbitration on
a complaint, the Participant or Beneficiary must initiate and participate in any
complaint resolution procedure identified in the Company s
personnel policies. If

  14 

the claimant has not initiated the complaint resolution procedure before initiating
arbitration on a complaint, the initiation of the arbitration shall be deemed to
begin the complaint resolution procedure. No arbitration hearing shall be held on a
complaint until any applicable Company complaint resolution procedure has been
completed.

(4)  Rules of Arbitration . All arbitration will be conducted by a single
arbitrator according to the Employment Dispute Arbitration Rules of the AAA. The
arbitrator will have authority to award any remedy or relief that a court of
competent jurisdiction could order or grant including, without limitation, specific
performance of any obligation created under policy, the awarding of punitive
damages, the issuance of any injunction, costs and attorney s fees to the extent
permitted by law, or the imposition of sanctions for abuse of the arbitration
process. The arbitrator s award must be rendered in a writing that sets forth the
essential findings and conclusions on which the arbitrator s award is based.

(5)  Representation and Costs . Each party may be represented in the
arbitration by an attorney or other representative selected by the party. The
Company shall be responsible for its own costs, the AAA filing fee and all other
fees, costs and expenses of the arbitrator and AAA for administering the
arbitration. The claimant shall be responsible for his attorney s or
representative s fees, if any. However, if any party prevails on a statutory claim
which allows the prevailing party costs and/or attorneys  fees, the arbitrator may
award costs and reasonable attorneys  fees as provided by such statute.

(6)  Discovery; Location; Rules of Evidence . Discovery will be allowed to
the same extent afforded under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Arbitration
will be held at a location selected by the Company. AAA rules notwithstanding, the
admissibility of evidence offered at the arbitration shall be determined by the
arbitrator who shall be the judge of its materiality and relevance. Legal rules of
evidence will not be controlling, and the standard for admissibility of evidence
will generally be whether it is the type of information that responsible people rely
upon in making important decisions.

(7)  Confidentiality . The existence, content or results of any arbitration
may not be disclosed by a party or arbitrator without the prior written consent of
both parties. Witnesses who are not a party to the arbitration shall be excluded
from the hearing except to testify.

15 

ADDENDUM 
SPECIAL TRANSITION RULES

Pursuant to the provisions of Notice 2005-1:

1. 
       
     The Company provided each Participant with an opportunity to file a new deferral election by
March 15, 2005, with respect to any director fees that had not yet been paid as of the date
the election was filed. 

2. 
       
     The Company provided each Participant with an opportunity to file a new distribution election
during calendar year 2005, with respect to his Account. The new distribution election allowed
the Participant to select a lump sum or up to ten (10) annual installments for his Account.
The distribution election received by the Administrator as of December 31, 2005 is
irrevocable. 

16 

</EX-10.D>

<EX-10.M>
 5
 c08525exv10wm.htm
 DIRECTOR SHARE UNIT PLAN

exv10wm 

Exhibit 10.M 

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 
DIRECTOR SHARE UNIT PLAN 

ARTICLE 1.   
  PURPOSE AND DURATION  

Section 1.1.   Purpose . The purpose of the Johnson Controls, Inc. Director Share Unit Plan is to advance
the Company s growth and success, and to advance the interests of its shareholders, by attracting
and retaining well-qualified Outside Directors upon whose judgment the Company is largely dependent
for the successful conduct of its operations and by providing such individuals with incentives to
put forth maximum effort for the long-term success of the Company s business, thereby aligning
their interests more closely with the interests of shareholders.

Section 1.2.   Duration . The Plan was originally effective on November 18, 1998. The Plan was most
recently amended and restated effective January 1, 2005. The provisions of the Plan as amended and
restated apply to each individual with an interest hereunder on or after January 1, 2005.

ARTICLE 2.   
  DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION  

Section 2.1.   Definitions . Wherever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below and, when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized:

(a)  Administrator  means the Employee Benefits Policy Committee of the Company.

(b)  Affiliate  means each entity that is required to be included in the Company s controlled
group of corporations within the meaning of Code Section 414(b), or that is under common control
with the Company within the meaning of Code Section 414(c).

(c)  Beneficiary  means the person or persons entitled to receive the interest of a
Participant in the event of the Participant s death as provided in Article 7.

(d)  Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company.

(e)  Change of Control  has the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 10.2.

(f)  Committee  means the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board;  provided, however , that
if the Corporate Governance Committee does not include two or more  non-employee directors  within
the meaning of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act, then the term  Committee  means such other committee appointed by the Board consisting of two or more
 non-employee directors. 

(g)  Company  means Johnson Controls, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation, and any successor thereto
as provided in Article 11.

(h)  Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as interpreted by regulations
and rules issued pursuant thereto, all as amended and in effect from time to time. Any reference
to a specific provision of the Exchange Act shall be deemed to include reference to any successor
provision thereto.

(i)  Fair Market Value  means with respect to a Share, except as otherwise provided herein,
the closing sales price of a Share on the New York Stock Exchange as of 4:00 p.m. EST on the date
in question (or the immediately preceding trading day, if the date in question is not a trading
day), and with respect to any other property, such value as is determined by the Administrator.

(j)  Outside Director  means a member of the Board who is not an officer or employee of the
Company or a subsidiary.

(k)  Participant  means each Outside Director who has a Retirement Account under the Plan.
Where the context so requires, a Participant also means a former director who is entitled to a
benefit hereunder.

(l)  Plan  means the arrangement described herein, as from time to time amended and in effect.

(m)  Retirement Account  means the record keeping account maintained to record the interest of
each Participant under the Plan. A Retirement Account is established for record keeping purposes
only and not to reflect the physical segregation of assets on the Participant s behalf, and may
consist of such subaccounts or balances as the Administrator may determine to be necessary or
appropriate.

(n)  Separation from Service  means the cessation of service as a Board member, for any
reason, provided the cessation of service is a good-faith and complete termination of the
relationship with the Company. If, at the time of the cessation of service, the Participant
anticipates a significant contractual relationship with the Company as a consultant or becoming an
employee, then such cessation of service as a Board member does not constitute a good-faith and
complete termination of the relationship with the Company.

(o)  Share  means a share of the Company s common stock, $0.16 par value.

(p)  Share Units  means the hypothetical Shares that are credited to the Participant s
Retirement Account in accordance with Article 5.

(q)  Total and Permanent Disability  means the Participant s inability to engage in any
substantial gainful activity as a result of a medically-determinable physical or mental
impairment which can be expected to result in death or which can be expected to last for a
continuous period of at least twelve (12) months, as determined by the Administrator. The
Administrator may require the Participant to submit such medical evidence or to undergo a medical
examination by a doctor selected by the Administrator as the Administrator determines is necessary
in order to make a determination hereunder.

2 

(r)  Unforeseeable Emergency  means a severe financial hardship of the Participant, resulting
from any of the following:

(1) an illness or accident of the Participant, his or her spouse or
dependent (as defined in Code Section 152(a));

(2) a loss of the Participant s property due to casualty (including
the need to rebuild a home following damage to a home not otherwise
covered by insurance, for example, as a result of a natural
disaster); or

(3) other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances
arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant,
as determined by the Administrator.

(s)  Valuation Date  means each day when the United States financial markets are open for
business, as of which the Administrator will determine the value of each Retirement Account.

Section 2.2.   Construction . Wherever any words are used in the masculine, they shall be construed as
though they were used in the feminine in all cases where they would so apply; and wherever any
words are use in the singular or the plural, they shall be construed as though they were used in
the plural or the singular, as the case may be, in all cases where they would so apply. Titles of
articles and sections are for general information only, and the Plan is not to be construed by
reference to such items.

Section 2.3.   Severability . In the event any provision of the Plan is held illegal or invalid for any
reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan
shall be construed and enforced as if the said illegal or invalid provision had not been included.

ARTICLE 3.   
  ADMINISTRATION  

Section 3.1.   General . The Committee shall have overall authority with respect to administration of the
Plan;  provided  that the Administrator shall have responsibility for the general operation and daily
administration of the Plan as specified herein. If at any time the Committee shall not be in
existence or not be
composed of members of the Board who qualify as  non-employee directors , then the Board shall
administer the Plan (with the assistance of the Administrator) and all references herein to the
Committee shall be deemed to include the Board.

Section 3.2.   Authority . In addition to the authority specifically provided herein, the Committee and
the Administrator shall have full power and discretionary authority to take any action or make any
determination it deems necessary for the proper administration of its respective duties under the
Plan, including but not limited to the power and authority to: (a) interpret the Plan; (b) correct
errors, supply omissions or reconcile inconsistencies in the Plan s terms; (c) establish, amend or
waive rules and regulations, and appoint such agents, as it deems appropriate for the Plan s
administration; and (d) make any other determinations, including

3 

factual determinations, and take
any other action as it determines is necessary or desirable for the Plan s administration. Any
action taken by the Committee shall be controlling over any contrary action of the Administrator.
The Committee or Administrator may delegate its ministerial duties to a third party and to the
extent of such delegation, references to the Committee or Administrator herein shall mean such
delegatee.

Section 3.3.   Decision Binding . The Committee s and the Administrator s determinations and decisions
made pursuant to the provisions of the Plan and all related orders or resolutions of the Board
shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons who have an interest in the Plan, and such
determinations and decisions shall not be reviewable.

Section 3.4.   Procedures for Administration . The Committee s determinations must be made by not less
than a majority of its members present at the meeting (in person or otherwise) at which a quorum is
present, or by written majority consent, which sets forth the action, is signed by the members of
the Committee and filed with the minutes for proceedings of the Committee. A majority of the
entire Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Administrator s
determinations shall be made in accordance with such procedures it establishes.

Section 3.5.   Indemnification . Neither the Committee, nor the Administrator, nor any member thereof
shall be liable for any act, omission, interpretation, construction or determination made in
connection with the Plan in good faith and the members of the Committee and the Administrator shall
be entitled to indemnification and reimbursement by the Company in respect of any claim, loss,
damage or expense (including attorneys  fees) arising therefrom to the full extent permitted by law
and under any directors  and officers  liability insurance that may be in effect from time to time.

Section 3.6.   Restrictions to Comply with Applicable Law . Transactions under the Plan are intended to
comply with all applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act. The Committee and the
Administrator shall administer the Plan so
that transactions under the Plan will be exempt from or comply with Section 16 of the Exchange Act,
and shall have the right to restrict or rescind any transaction, or impose other rules and
requirements, to the extent it deems necessary or desirable for such exemption or compliance to be
met.

ARTICLE 4.   
  PARTICIPATION  

Each Outside Director shall automatically become a Participant on the date the individual is
first elected to become an Outside Director. No new Participants shall be added to the Plan after
October 1, 2006.

ARTICLE 5.   
  RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS  

Section 5.1.   Establishment of Retirement Account . Each Participant shall have a Retirement Account
established under this Plan on his behalf. A Participant s Retirement Account shall be credited
with  Share Units  and otherwise subject to adjustment as follows:

4 

(a)  Conversion of Accrued Benefits . For each Outside Director of the Company as of
December 1, 1998, the Administrator shall calculate the value of such Outside Director s accrued
benefits under the Company s Director Retirement Plan as of September 30, 1998. Each such Outside
Director s Retirement Account shall be credited with a number of Share Units equal to the result
obtained by (i) dividing (A) the value of such Outside Director s accrued benefits under the
Company s Director Retirement Plan as of September 30, 1998 by (B) the Fair Market Value of a Share
as of the first trading day in December 1998.

(b)  Annual Credit of Share Units . On the date of each regular meeting of the Board
held in November, the Retirement Account of each Participant who is then an Outside Director shall
be credited with a number of additional Share Units equal to the result obtained by (i) dividing
(A) the amount determined for such year by the Committee by (B) the Fair Market Value of a Share on
such date. Effective October 1, 2006, no additional Share Units shall be credited to a
Participant s Retirement Account under this subsection (b).

Section 5.2.   Interim Election . Any Outside Director whose election to the Board is first effective at
any time other than the regular meeting of the Board held in November shall have credited to his or
her Retirement Account a proportionate share of the Annual Credit at the time of effectiveness of
his election. Such credit shall be based on the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date on which
his election is effective. Effective October 1, 2006, no Share Units shall be credited to a
Participant s Retirement Account under this Section 5.2.

Section 5.3.   Dividends . Whenever the Company declares a dividend on its Shares, in
cash or in property, at a time when Participants have Share Units credited to their Retirement
Accounts, a dividend award shall be made to all such Participants as of the date of payment of the
dividend.
The dividend award for a Participant shall be determined by multiplying the Share Units credited to
the Participant s Account as of the date the dividend is declared by the amount or Fair Market
Value of the dividend paid or distributed on one Share. The dividend award shall be credited to
the Participant s Retirement Account by converting such award into Share Units by dividing the
amount of the dividend award by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the dividend is paid.
Any other provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, if a dividend is declared on
Shares in the form of a right or rights to purchase shares of capital stock of the Company or of
any entity acquiring the Company, such dividend award shall not be credited to the Participant s
Retirement Account, but each Share Unit credited to a Participant s Retirement Account at the time
such dividend is paid, and each Share Unit thereafter credited to the Participant s Retirement
Account at a time when such rights are attached to Shares, shall thereafter be valued as of any
point in time on the basis of the aggregate of the then Fair Market Value of one Share plus the
then Fair Market Value of such right or rights then or previously attached to one Share.

ARTICLE 6.   
  RULES WITH RESPECT TO SHARE UNITS  

Section 6.1.   Transactions Affecting Common Stock . In the event of any merger, share exchange,
reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split or other change in
corporate structure of the Company affecting Shares, the Administrator may make appropriate
equitable adjustments with respect to the Share Units credited to the Retirement Account of each
Participant, including without limitation, adjusting the date as of which such

5 

units are valued
and/or distributed, as the Administrator determines is necessary or desirable to prevent the
dilution or enlargement of the benefits intended to be provided under the Plan.

Section 6.2.   No Shareholder Rights With Respect to Share Units . Participants shall have no rights as a
stockholder pertaining to Share Units credited to their Retirement Accounts. No individual shall
have any right to receive a distribution of Shares under this Plan. All distributions under the
Plan are made in cash.

ARTICLE 7.   
  PAYMENT  

Section 7.1.   Distributions .

(a)  Participant s Separation from Service . A Participant s Retirement Account shall
become payable upon the Participant s Separation from Service, whether by death, disability,
retirement or for any other reason.

(b)  Earlier Distribution . Notwithstanding the foregoing, a distribution may be made
prior to the date specified in subsection (a) as follows:

(1) If an amount deferred under this Plan is required to be included
in income under Code Section 409A prior to the date such amount is
actually distributed, a Participant shall receive a distribution, in
a lump sum as soon as practicable after the date the Plan fails to
meet the requirements of Code Section 409A, of the amount required
to be included in the Participant s income as a result of such
failure.

(2) If an amount under the Plan is required to be distributed under
a domestic relations order within the meaning of Code Section
414(p)(1)(B), it may be distributed according to the terms of such
order.

Section 7.2.   Election of Form of Distribution . A Participant, within the first thirty (30) days
following the date he commences participation in the Plan, shall make a distribution election with
respect to his Retirement Account. Such election shall be made in such form and manner and within
such time periods as the Administrator may prescribe, and shall be irrevocable. The election shall
specify whether distributions shall be made in a single lump sum or annual installments of from two
(2) to ten (10) years. If no valid election is in effect, distribution shall be made in ten (10)
annual installments.

Section 7.3.   Manner of Distribution . A Participant s Retirement Account shall be paid or begin to be
paid in cash as follows:

(a) If payment is to be made in a lump sum, payment shall be made in the first calendar
quarter of the year following the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs,
and shall be in an amount equal to the balance of the Participant s Retirement Account as of the
Valuation Date immediately preceding the distribution date.

6 

(b) If payment is to be made in annual installments, the first annual payment shall be made in
the first calendar quarter of the year following the year in which the Participant s Separation
from Service occurs, and shall equal the value of 1/10 th  (or 1/9 th ,
1/8 th , 1/7 th , etc. depending on the number of installments elected) of the
balance of the Participant s Retirement Account as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the
distribution date. A second annual payment shall be made in the first calendar quarter of the
second year after the year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs, and shall
equal the value of 1/9 th  (or 1/8 th , 1/7 th , 1/6 th , etc.
depending on the number of installments elected) of the balance of the Participant s Retirement
Account as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the distribution date. Each succeeding
installment payment (if any) shall be determined in a similar manner, until the final installment
which shall equal the then remaining balance of such account as of the Valuation Date immediately
preceding the final distribution date.

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, if the balance of a Participant s Retirement Account
at any distribution date is less than $50,000 during the payout period, the
remaining balance shall be paid in the form of a lump sum on (or as soon as practicable
following) such distribution date.

(c)  Delay in Payment . Notwithstanding the foregoing, a distribution may be delayed
beyond the date it would have otherwise been paid under subsection (a) or (b) in the following
circumstances:

(1) If the distribution will violate the terms of a loan agreement
or other similar contract to which the Company or an Affiliate, as
applicable, is a party, and if any such violation will cause
material harm to the Company or Affiliate, the distribution shall be
delayed until the first date that a violation will not occur or the
violation will not cause material harm to the Company or an
Affiliate.

(2) If the distribution will violate the terms of Section 16(b) of
the Exchange Act or other Federal securities laws, or any other
applicable law, then the distribution shall be delayed until the
earliest date on which making the distribution will not violate such
law.

Section 7.4.   Distribution in Event of Unforeseeable Emergency . If requested by a Participant while an
Outside Director and if the Administrator determines that an Unforeseeable Emergency has occurred,
all or part of the Participant s Retirement Account may be paid out to the Participant in a cash
lump sum. The amount to be distributed to the Participant shall only be such amount as is needed
to alleviate the Participant s Unforeseeable Emergency, including any Federal, state or local
income taxes or penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the distribution, after taking into
account the extent to which the emergency is or may be relieved through reimbursement or
compensation from insurance or otherwise, or by liquidation of the Participant s assets (to the
extent such liquidation would not itself cause a severe financial hardship).

7 

Section 7.5.   Distribution of Remaining Account Following Participant s Death .

(a)  Distribution . In the event of the Participant s death prior to receiving all
payments due hereunder, the balance of the Participant s Retirement Account shall be paid to the
Participant s Beneficiary in a lump sum as soon as practicable after the Participant s death.

(b)  Designation of Beneficiary . Each Participant may designate a Beneficiary in such
form and manner and within such time periods as the Administrator may prescribe. A Participant can
change his beneficiary designation at any time, provided that each beneficiary designation shall
revoke the most recent designation, and the last designation received by the Administrator while
the Participant is alive shall be given effect. If a Participant designates a Beneficiary without
providing in the designation that the Beneficiary must be living at the time of distribution, the
designation shall vest in the Beneficiary all of the distribution payable after
the Participant s death, and any distributions remaining upon the Beneficiary s death shall be
made to the Beneficiary s estate. If there is no valid beneficiary designation in effect at the
time of the Participant s death, if the Beneficiary does not survive the Participant, or if the
beneficiary designation provides that the Beneficiary must be living at the time of each
distribution and such designated Beneficiary does not survive to a distribution date, the
Participant s estate will be deemed the Beneficiary and will be entitled to receive payment. If a
Participant designates his spouse as a Beneficiary, such beneficiary designation automatically
shall become null and void on the date the Administrator receives notice of the Participant s
divorce or legal separation.

Section 7.6.   Tax Withholding . The Company shall have the right to deduct from any deferral or payment
made hereunder, or from any other amount due a Participant, the amount of cash sufficient to
satisfy the Company s or Affiliate s foreign, federal, state or local income tax withholding
obligations with respect to such deferral or payment. In addition, if prior to the date of
distribution of any amount hereunder, the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax imposed
under Code Sections 3101, 3121(a) and 3121(v)(2), where applicable, becomes due, the Participant s
Retirement Account balance shall be reduced by the amount needed to pay the Participant s portion
of such tax.

Section 7.7.   Offset . The Company shall have the right to offset from any amount payable hereunder any
amount that the Participant owes to the Company or any Affiliate without the consent of the
Participant (or his Beneficiary, in the event of the Participant s death).

ARTICLE 8.   
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS  

Section 8.1.   No Funding . No stock, cash or other property will be deliverable to a Participant or his
or her Beneficiary in respect of the Participant s Retirement Account until the date or dates
identified pursuant to Article 7, and all Retirement Accounts shall be reflected in one or more
unfunded accounts established for the Participant by the Company. Payment of the Company s
obligation will be from general funds, and no special assets (stock, cash or otherwise) have been
or will be set aside as security for this obligation, unless otherwise provided by the
Administrator.

8 

Section 8.2.   No Transfers . Except as permitted by Section 7.11, a Participant s rights to payments
under this Plan are not subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer,
assignment, pledge, encumbrance by a Participant or his Beneficiary, or garnishment by a
Participant s creditors or the creditors of his or her beneficiaries, whether by operation of law
or otherwise, and any attempted sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, or encumbrance with respect to
such payment shall be null and void, and shall be without legal effect and shall not be recognized
by the Company.

Section 8.3.   Unsecured Creditor . The right of a Participant or Beneficiary to receive payments under this Plan is that of a
general, unsecured creditor of the Company, and the obligation of the Company to make payments
constitutes a mere promise by the Company to pay such benefits in the future. Further, the
arrangements contemplated by this Plan are intended to be unfunded for tax purposes and for
purposes of Title I of ERISA.

Section 8.4.   Retention as Director . Nothing contained in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any
way the right of the shareholders of the Company to remove any Director from the Board, nor confer
upon any Director any right to continue in the service of Company as a Director.

ARTICLE 9.   
  TERMINATION AND AMENDMENT OF PLAN  

Section 9.1.   Amendment . The Committee may at any time amend the Plan;  provided, however , that (a) the
Committee may not amend the Plan more than once every six months, other than amendments the
Committee deems necessary or advisable to assure the conformity of the Plan with any requirements
of state and federal law or regulations now or hereafter in effect, and (b) subject to the
provisions of Section 9.2, no amendment shall affect adversely any of the rights of any Outside
Director, without such Outside Director s consent, under any election theretofore in effect under
the Plan;  provided further that  the Board must approve any amendment that expands the class of
individuals eligible for participation under the Plan, that materially increases the benefits
provided hereunder, or that is required to be approved by the Board by any applicable law or the
listing requirements of the national securities exchange upon which the Company s common stock is
then traded. In addition, the Administrator may at any time amend the Plan to make administrative
changes and changes necessary to comply with applicable law.

Section 9.2.   Termination . The Committee may terminate the Plan in accordance with
the following provisions.

(1) The Committee may terminate the Plan within twelve (12) months
of a corporate dissolution taxed under Code Section 331, or with the
approval of a bankruptcy court pursuant to 11 U.S.C.  503(b)(1)(A),
provided that the amounts accrued under the Plan are distributed to
the Participants or Beneficiaries, as applicable, in a single sum
payment, regardless of any distribution election then in effect, in
the later of: (A) the calendar year in which the Plan termination
occurs or (B) the first calendar year in which payment is
administratively practicable.

9 

(2) The Committee may terminate the Plan at any time during the
period that begins thirty (30) days prior and ends twelve (12)
months following a Change of Control, provided that all
substantially similar arrangements (within the meaning of Code
Section 409A) sponsored by the Company are terminated, so that all
participants under similar arrangements are required to receive all
amounts of compensation deferred under the terminated arrangements
within twelve (12) months of the date of termination of the
arrangements.

(3) The Committee may terminate the Plan at any other time. In such
event, the balance of all Accounts will be distributed to all
Participants or Beneficiaries, as applicable, in a single sum
payment mo earlier than twelve (12) months (and no later than
twenty-four (24) months) after the date of termination, regardless
of any distribution election then in effect. This provision shall
not be effective unless all other plans required to be aggregated
with this Plan under Code Section 409A are also terminated.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment that would otherwise be
paid during the twelve (12)-month period beginning on the Plan
termination date pursuant to the terms of the Plan shall be paid in
accordance with such terms. In addition, the Company or any
Affiliate shall be prohibited from adopting a similar arrangement
within five (5) years following the date of the Plan s termination,
unless any individual who was a Participant under this Plan is
excluded from participating thereunder for such five (5) year
period.

ARTICLE 10.   
  CHANGE OF CONTROL  

Section 10.1.   Acceleration of Payment . Anything in this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, each
Participant s Retirement Account shall be paid in cash in a lump sum within thirty (30) days
following the occurrence of a Change of Control. The amount of the cash payment shall be
determined by multiplying the number of Share Units in the Retirement Account by the Fair Market
Value of a Share as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the occurrence of the Change of
Control.

In determining the amount accumulated in a Participant s Retirement Account, each Share Unit
shall have a value equal to the higher of (a) the highest reported sales price, regular way, of a
share of the Company s common stock on the Composite Tape for New York Stock Exchange Listed Stocks
(the  Composite Tape ) during the sixty-day period prior to the date of the Change of Control of
the Company and (b) if the Change of Control of the Company is the result of a transaction or
series of transactions described in Section 10.2(a), the highest price per Share of the Company
paid in such transaction or series of transactions.

10 

Section 10.2.   Definition of a Change of Control . A Change of Control means any of the following events,
provided that each such event would constitute a change of control within the meaning of Code
Section 409A:

(a) The acquisition, other than from the Company, by any individual, entity or group of
beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule l3d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act),
including in connection with a merger, consolidation or reorganization, of more than either:

(1) Fifty percent (50%) of the then outstanding shares of common
stock of the Company (the  Outstanding Company Common Stock ) or

(2) Thirty-five (35%) of the combined voting power of the then
outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote
generally in the election of directors (the  Company Voting
Securities ),

provided, however , that any acquisition by (x) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or any
employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its
subsidiaries or (y) any corporation with respect to which, following such acquisition, more than
60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the
combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to
vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by
all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners,
respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities immediately
prior to such acquisition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership, immediately
prior to such acquisition, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities,
as the case may be, shall not constitute a Change in Control of the Company; or

(b) Individuals who, as of January 1, 2005, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease
for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board during any 12-month period,  provided 
that any individual becoming a director subsequent to January 1, 2005, whose election or nomination
for election by the Company s shareholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the
directors then comprising the Incumbent Board, shall be considered as though such individual were a
member of the Incumbent Board; or

(c) A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or sale or other disposition of all
or substantially all of the assets of the Company other than to a corporation with respect to
which, following such sale or disposition, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding
shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities
entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then owned beneficially, directly or
indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial
owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities
immediately prior to such sale or disposition in substantially the same proportion as their
ownership of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities, as the case may
be, immediately prior to such sale or disposition. For purposes hereof,  a sale or other
disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company  will not be deemed to

11 

have
occurred if the sale involves assets having a total gross fair market value of less than forty
percent (40%) of the total gross fair market value of all assets of the Company immediately prior
to the acquisition. For this purpose,  gross fair market value  means the value of the assets
without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets.

(d) For purposes of this Section 10.2, persons will not be considered to be acting as a
 group  solely because they purchase or own stock of the Company at the same time, or as a result
of the same public offering. However, persons will be considered to be acting as a  group  if they
are owners of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of
stock, or similar business transaction with the Company. If a person, including an entity, owns
stock in the Company and any other corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase
or acquisition of stock, or similar transaction, such shareholder is considered to be acting as a
group with other shareholders in such corporation only with respect to the ownership in that
corporation prior to the transaction giving rise to the change and not with respect to the
ownership interest in the Company.

ARTICLE 11.   
  SUCCESSORS  

All obligations of the Company under the Plan shall be binding on any successor to the
Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase,
merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of
the Company. This Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Participants,
Beneficiaries, and their heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives.

ARTICLE 12.   
  DISPUTE RESOLUTION  

Section 12.1.   Governing Law . This Plan and the rights and obligations hereunder shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Wisconsin (excluding any choice of
law rules that may direct the application of the laws of another jurisdiction).

Section 12.2.   Arbitration .

(a)  Application . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, if a Participant or
Beneficiary brings a claim that relates to benefits under this Plan, regardless of the basis of
the claim, such claim shall be settled by final binding arbitration in accordance with the rules of
the American Arbitration Association ( AAA ) and judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator
may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.

(b)  Initiation of Action . Arbitration must be initiated by serving or mailing a
written notice of the complaint to the other party. Normally, such written notice should be
provided to the other party within one year (365 days) after the day the complaining party first
knew or should have known of the events giving rise to the complaint. However, this time frame may
be extended if the applicable statute of limitation provides for a longer period of time. If the
complaint is not properly submitted within the appropriate time frame, all rights and claims that

12 

the complaining party has or may have against the other party shall be waived and void. Any notice
sent to the Company shall be delivered to:

Office of General Counsel 
Johnson Controls, Inc. 
5757 North Green Bay Avenue 
P.O. Box 591 
Milwaukee, WI 53201-0591

The notice must identify and describe the nature of all complaints asserted and the facts upon
which such complaints are based. Notice will be deemed given according to the date of any postmark
or the date of time of any personal delivery.

(c)  Compliance with Personnel Policies . Before proceeding to arbitration on a
complaint, the Participant or Beneficiary must initiate and participate in any complaint resolution
procedure identified in the Company s personnel policies. If the claimant has not initiated the
complaint resolution procedure before initiating arbitration on a complaint, the initiation of the
arbitration shall be deemed to begin the complaint resolution procedure. No arbitration hearing
shall be held on a complaint until any applicable Company complaint resolution procedure has been
completed.

(d)  Rules of Arbitration . All arbitration will be conducted by a single arbitrator
according to the Employment Dispute Arbitration Rules of the AAA. The arbitrator will have
authority to award any remedy or relief that a court of competent jurisdiction could order or grant
including, without limitation, specific performance of any obligation created under policy, the
awarding of punitive damages, the issuance of any injunction, costs and attorney s fees to the
extent permitted by law, or the imposition of sanctions for abuse of the arbitration process. The
arbitrator s award must be rendered in a writing that sets forth the essential findings and
conclusions on which the arbitrator s award is based.

(e)  Representation and Costs . Each party may be represented in the arbitration by an
attorney or other representative selected by the party. The Company shall be responsible for its
own costs, the AAA filing fee and all other fees, costs and expenses of the arbitrator and AAA for
administering the arbitration. The claimant shall be responsible for his attorney s or
representative s fees, if any. However, if any party prevails on a statutory claim which allows
the prevailing party costs and/or attorneys  fees, the arbitrator may award costs and reasonable
attorneys  fees as provided by such statute.

(f)  Discovery; Location; Rules of Evidence . Discovery will be allowed to the same
extent afforded under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Arbitration will be held at a location
selected by the Company. AAA rules notwithstanding, the admissibility of evidence offered at the
arbitration shall be determined by the arbitrator who shall be the judge of its materiality and
relevance. Legal rules of evidence will not be controlling, and the standard for admissibility of
evidence will generally be whether it is the type of information that responsible people rely upon
in making important decisions.

13 

(g)  Confidentiality . The existence, content or results of any arbitration may not be
disclosed by a party or arbitrator without the prior written consent of both parties. Witnesses
who are not a party to the arbitration shall be excluded from the hearing except to testify.

14 

</EX-10.M>

<EX-10.N>
 6
 c08525exv10wn.htm
 2000 STOCK OPTION PLAN

exv10wn 

Exhibit 10.N 

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 

12,815,809 Shares

Common Stock

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 2000 STOCK OPTION PLAN 

January 1, 2000 

(As Amended through January 1, 2007) 

This document sets forth information relating to participation in the Johnson Controls, Inc.
2000 Stock Option Plan (the  Plan ) and to shares of our common stock that we are offering under
the Plan. Each share of our common stock issued under the Plans will include one right to purchase
our common stock. In this document, unless the context otherwise requires, all references to our
common stock includes the accompanying rights. We are offering participation in the Plan to our
officers and other key employees and those of our subsidiaries.

This document will be accompanied or preceded by our latest Annual Report to Shareholders. If
you have previously received a copy of our Annual Report to Shareholders but wish to have another
copy, then we will furnish an additional copy without charge upon written or oral request to us.

Neither the Securities and Exchange Commission nor any state securities commission has
approved or disapproved of the securities offered pursuant to the Plan or determined if this
prospectus is truthful and complete. Any representation to the contrary is a criminal offense. 

You should rely only on the information contained in this document or to which we have
referred you. We have not authorized anyone to provide you with information that is different.
The information in this document may only be accurate on the date of the document. This document
may only be used where it is legal to sell these securities.

This document may not be used for resales of shares acquired under the Plan.

THE COMPANY 

We are a global market leader in automotive systems and facility management and control. In
the automotive market, we are a major supplier of seating and interior systems, and batteries. For
nonresidential facilities, we provide building control systems and services, energy management and
integrated facility management. Our principal executive offices are located at 5757 North Green
Bay Avenue, P.O. Box 591, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53201. Our telephone number is (414) 524-1200.

1.  Establishment . JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. (the  Company ) hereby establishes a stock option plan for
certain officers and other key employees, as described herein, which shall be known as the JOHNSON
CONTROLS, INC. 2000 STOCK OPTION PLAN (the  Plan ). It is intended that certain of the stock
options issued pursuant to the Plan may constitute incentive stock options within the meaning of
Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code ( Incentive Stock Options ) and the remainder of the
options issued pursuant to the Plan shall constitute nonqualified options. Incentive Stock Options
and nonqualified stock options are hereinafter jointly referred to as  Options.  The Committee may
also award stock appreciation rights apart from Options issued pursuant to the Plan.

2.  Purpose . The purpose of the Plan is to induce certain officers and other key employees to remain
in the employ of the Company or its subsidiaries and to encourage such employees to secure or
increase on reasonable terms their stock ownership in the Company. The Board of Directors of the
Company (the  Board of Directors ) believes that the Plan will promote continuity of management and
increased incentive and personal interest in the welfare of the Company by those who are
responsible for shaping and carrying out the long-range plans of the Company and securing its
continued growth and financial success.

3.  Effective Date of the Plan . The Plan was adopted by the Board of Directors on November 17, 1999,
and, subject to the approval of the Plan by the shareholders of the Company within twelve months of
this date, the effective date of the Plan will be January 1, 2000. Any and all Options granted
prior to shareholder approval shall be subject to such approval.

4.  Stock Subject to the Plan . Subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of this
paragraph and paragraph 17, the total number of shares of the common stock of the Company ( Common
Stock ) available for awards during the term of the Plan shall be an amount calculated as follows:
(a) fifteen percent (15%) of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding upon the effective
date of the Plan minus (b) the number of shares of Common Stock subject to awards made under any
prior stock option plan of the Company (a  Prior Plan ) and outstanding upon the effective date of
the Plan ( Prior Plan Awards ). Shares of Common Stock to be delivered upon exercise of Options or
settlement of stock appreciation rights under the Plan shall be made available from
presently authorized but unissued Common Stock or authorized and issued shares of Common Stock
reacquired and held as treasury shares, or a combination thereof. If any Option or stock
appreciation right shall be canceled, expire or terminate without having been exercised in full, or
to the extent a stock appreciation right is settled in cash, the shares of Common Stock allocable
to the unexercised, canceled, forfeited portion of such Option or stock appreciation right, or
portion of such stock appreciation right which is settled in cash, shall again be available for the
purpose of the Plan. The surrender of

any Options (and the surrender of any related stock
appreciation rights granted under paragraph 16) in connection with the receipt of stock
appreciation rights as provided in paragraph 16 shall, as to such Options, have the same effect
under this paragraph 4 as the cancellation or termination of such Options without having been
exercised. If any stock appreciation rights are granted under the Plan (including any grant in
connection with the surrender of outstanding Options), as provided in paragraph 16, and shares of
Common Stock may be issuable in connection with such stock appreciation rights, then the grant of
such stock appreciation rights shall be deemed to have the same effect under this paragraph 4 as
the grant of Options; provided, however, if any such stock appreciation rights shall be canceled,
expire or terminate without having been exercised in full, or to the extent a stock appreciation
right is settled in cash, the shares of Common Stock allocable to the unexercised, canceled,
forfeited portion of such stock appreciation right, or portion of such stock appreciation right
which is settled in cash, shall again be available for the purpose of the Plan. If the exercise
price of any Option granted under the Plan is satisfied by tendering shares of Common Stock to the
Company (by either actual delivery or by attestation), only the number of shares of Common Stock
issued net of the shares of Common Stock tendered shall be deemed delivered for purposes of
determining the maximum number of shares of Common Stock available for delivery under the Plan. If
any Participant satisfies the Company s withholding tax requirements upon the exercise of an Option
by properly electing to have the Company withhold shares of Common Stock, then the shares of Common
Stock so withheld shall again be available for the purpose of the Plan, except that such shares
shall not be available for the granting of Incentive Stock Options. After the effective date of
the Plan, if any event occurs as a result of which shares of Common Stock subject to Prior Plan
Awards would again become available for the purpose of the relevant Prior Plan if the Prior Plan
were still in effect and the Company could grant awards under the Prior Plan, then such shares
shall be available for the purpose of the Plan rather than such Prior Plan (subject to any
applicable limitation on the use of such shares for the granting of Incentive Stock Options) and
thereby increase the shares available under the Plan as determined under the first sentence of this
paragraph.

5.  Administration .

(a) 
       
     The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (the  Committee )
consisting of not less than three members of the Board of Directors appointed from time
to time by the Board of Directors. No member of the Committee shall be, nor at any
time during the preceding one-year period have been, eligible to receive stock, stock
options or stock appreciation rights of the Company or of its subsidiaries pursuant to
the Plan or any other plan of the Company or its subsidiaries, other than a plan for
directors of the Company who are not officers or employees of the Company which
provides for automatic
grants without exercise of discretion by any member of the Board of Directors, or by
any officer or employee of the Company. 

(b) 
       
     Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have
authority to establish such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or advisable
for the proper administration of the Plan, and in its discretion, to determine the
individuals (the  Participants ) to whom, and the time or times at which, Options and
stock appreciation rights shall be granted, the type of Options, the periods of 

2 

Options or stock appreciation rights, limitations on exercise of Options or stock appreciation
rights, and the number of shares to be subject to each Option or award of stock
appreciation rights. In making such determinations, the Committee may take into
account the nature of the services rendered by the respective employees, their present
and potential contributions to the success of the Company or its subsidiaries, and such
other factors as the Committee, in its discretion, shall deem relevant. 

(c) 
       
     Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall also have
complete authority to interpret the Plan, to prescribe, amend, and rescind rules and
regulations relating to it, to determine the terms and provisions of the respective
Option Agreements (which need not be identical) and to make all other determinations
necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. The Committee s
determinations on the matters referred to in this paragraph 5 shall be conclusive and
binding upon all parties. 

(d) 
       
     Neither the Committee nor any member thereof shall be liable for any act,
omission, interpretation, construction or determination made in connection with the
Plan in good faith, and the members of the Committee shall be entitled to
indemnification and reimbursement by the Company in respect of any claim, loss, damage
or expense (including attorneys fees) arising therefrom to the full extent permitted by
law and under any directors and officers liability insurance that may be in effect from
time to time. 

(e) 
       
     A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, and the acts of a
majority of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present, or acts
approved in writing by a majority of the Committee without a meeting, shall be the acts
of the Committee. 

(f) 
       
     The Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall have the same authority as the
Committee with respect to the grant and administration of awards of options and stock
appreciation rights made to (or to be made to) individuals eligible for the Plan,
excluding officers and employees who are subject to the provisions of Section 16 of the
Exchange Act or who are covered by Section 162(m) of the Code at the time in question. 

6.  Eligibility . Options and stock appreciation rights may be granted to officers and other key employees of the
Company and of any of its present and future subsidiaries. The maximum number of shares of Common
Stock covered by Options which may be granted to any Participant within any two consecutive
calendar year periods shall not exceed 500,000 shares in the aggregate. No Option or stock
appreciation right shall be granted to any person who owns, directly or indirectly, shares of stock
possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company.
A director of the Company or of a subsidiary who is not also an employee of the Company or of a
subsidiary will not be eligible to receive any Option or stock appreciation right hereunder.

3 

7.  Rights of Employees . Nothing in this Plan or in any Option or stock appreciation right shall
interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company and any of its subsidiaries to
terminate any Participant s or employee s employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant
or employee any right to continue in the employ of the Company and its subsidiaries. No employee
shall have any right to be granted an award under this Plan, even if an award was granted to such
employee at any prior time, or if a similarly-situated employee is or was granted an award under
similar circumstances.

8.  Option Agreements . All Options and stock appreciation rights granted under the Plan shall be
evidenced by written agreements (an  Option Agreement ) in such form or forms as the Committee
shall determine.

9.  Option Price . The per share Option price for Options and the per share grant price for stock
appreciation rights granted under paragraph 16, as determined by the Committee, shall be an amount
not less than 100% of the fair market value of the stock on the date such Options or stock
appreciation rights are granted (or, if the Committee so determines, in the case of any stock
appreciation right granted under paragraph 16 upon the surrender of any outstanding Option, on the
date of grant of such Option). The fair market value of a share of stock on any date shall be the
average of the highest and lowest market prices of sales of the Common Stock on that date, or on
the next preceding trading day if such date was not a trading day as reported on the New York Stock
Exchange or as otherwise determined by the Committee. However, effective January 1, 2007, in
connection with an exercise of options, to the extent the Participant sells any Shares acquired
upon such exercise in a market transaction on the date of exercise, the sale price(s) for any such
Shares shall be the fair market value.

10.  Option Period . The term of each Option and stock appreciation right shall be as determined by the
Committee but in no event shall the term of an Option or stock appreciation right exceed a period
of ten (10) years from the date of its grant. Each Option and stock appreciation right granted
hereunder may granted at any time on or after the effective date of the Plan, and prior to its
termination, provided that no Option or stock appreciation right may be granted later than ten
years after the date this Plan is adopted. The Committee shall determine whether any Option or
stock appreciation right shall become exercisable in cumulative or non-cumulative installments or
in full at any time. An exercisable Stock Option or stock appreciation right, or portion thereof, may
be exercised in whole or in part only with respect to whole shares of Common Stock.

11.  Maximum Value of Incentive Stock Options . The aggregate fair market value (as defined in paragraph
9) of the Common Stock for which any Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by
a Participant during any calendar year under the Plan or any other plan of the Company or any
subsidiary shall not exceed $100,000. To the extent the fair market value of the shares of Common
Stock attributable to Incentive Stock Options first exercisable in any calendar year exceeds
$100,000, the excess portion of the Incentive Stock Options shall be treated as nonqualified
options.

12.  Transferability of Option or Stock Appreciation Right . No Option or stock appreciation right
granted hereunder shall be transferable other than options specifically

4 

designated by the
Compensation Committee as such and meeting the following requirements of transfer:

(a) 
       
     by will or by the laws of descent and distribution; or 

(b) 
       
     in the case of a nonqualified option: 

(i) pursuant to a  Qualified Domestic Relations Order  as defined in Section 414(p)
of the Internal Revenue Code; or

(ii) to (A) his or her spouse, children or grandchildren ( Immediate Family
Members ), (B) a partnership in which the only partners are the Participant s
Immediate Family Members, or (C) a trust or trusts established solely for the
benefit of one or more of the Participant s Immediate Family Members (collectively,
the Permitted Transferees), provided that there may be no consideration for any such
transfer by a Participant.

Following transfer (if applicable), such Options and stock appreciation rights shall continue
to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer,
provided that such Options and stock appreciation rights may be exercised during the life of the
Participant only by the Participant or, if applicable, by the alternate payee designated under a
Qualified Domestic Relations Order or the Participant s Permitted Transferees.

13.  Exercise of Option . The Committee shall prescribe the manner in which a Participant may exercise
an Option which is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Plan. However, no Option shall be
exercisable, in whole or in part, for a period of at least six months commencing on the date of
grant, except as provided in paragraph 20 in the event of a Change in Control. An Option may be
exercised, subject to limitations on its exercise contained in the Option Agreement and in this
Plan, in full, at any time, or in part, from time to time, only by (A) written notice of intent to
exercise the Option with respect to a specified number of shares, and (B) by payment in full to the
Company at the time of exercise of the Option, of the option price of the shares being
purchased. Payment of the Option price may be made (i) in cash, (ii) if permitted by the
applicable Option Agreement, by tendering of shares of Common Stock equivalent in fair market value
(as defined in paragraph 9), or (iii) if permitted by the applicable Option Agreement, partly in
cash and partly in shares of Common Stock. Common Stock may be tendered either by actual delivery
of shares of Common Stock or by attestation.

14.  Withholding . If permitted by the applicable Option Agreement, a Participant may be permitted to
satisfy the Company s withholding tax requirements by electing (i) to have the Company withhold
shares of Common Stock of the Company, or (ii) to deliver to the Company shares of Common Stock of
the Company having a fair market value on the date income is recognized on the exercise of a
nonqualified option equal to the minimum amount required to be withheld. The election shall be
made in writing and according to such rules and in such form as the Committee shall determine.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the election and satisfaction of any withholding requirement
through the withholding of Common Stock or the tender of shares of Company Stock may be made only
at such times as are permitted, without incurring liabilities, by

5 

Rule 16b-3 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or such other securities laws, rules or regulations as may be
applicable.

15.  Termination of Employment .

(a) 
       
     In the event a Participant s employment with the Company or any of its
subsidiaries shall be terminated for any reason, except early or normal retirement,
death or total and permanent disability, a Participant may exercise his or her Options
and stock appreciation rights (to the extent vested and exercisable as of the date of
the Participant s termination of employment) for a period of thirty (30) days after the
date of the Participant s termination of employment, unless such Option or stock
appreciation right expires earlier under the terms of the award agreement. Thereafter,
all rights to exercise an Option or stock appreciation right shall terminate. 

(b) 
       
     If the Participant should die while employed by the Company or any subsidiary
prior to the expiration of the term of the Option or stock appreciation right, the
Option or stock appreciation right shall be exercisable immediately to the extent it
would have been exercisable had the Participant remained employed for twelve months
after the date of death and may be exercised by the person to whom it is transferred by
will or by the applicable laws of descent and distribution by giving notice as provided
in paragraph 13, at any time within twelve months after the date of death unless such
Option or stock appreciation right expires earlier under the terms of the Option
Agreement. For purposes of this paragraph, the six-month limitation imposed pursuant
to paragraph 13 shall not be applicable. 

(c) 
       
     In the event of a Participant s termination of employment with the Company due
to early or normal retirement, or due to total and permanent disability, prior to the
expiration of the term of an Option or stock appreciation right, the Option or stock
appreciation right: (i) shall be exercisable in full without regard to any vesting
requirements; provided that an Option or stock appreciation right of a Participant
who retires shall be exercisable in full only if the Participant retires on or after
the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which such Option
or stock appreciation right was granted, unless the Committee determines otherwise,
and (ii) may be exercised by the Participant at any time within thirty-six months
after the date of such early or normal retirement or termination due to total and
permanent disability, as the case may be, unless such Option or stock appreciation
right expires earlier under the terms of the award agreement. Provided, however,
that for certain participants who are officers of the Company or who are selected by
the Compensation Committee of the Board, nonqualified stock options may be exercised
by the Participant for up to ten (10) years after the date of such early or normal
retirement, or for five (5) years after the date of such total and permanent
disability, as the case may be, in the event of termination of employment with the
Company due to early or normal retirement, or due to total and permanent disability,
prior to the expiration of the term of the Option or stock appreciation right,
unless such Option or stock appreciation right expires earlier under the terms of
the Option Agreement. For purposes hereof, a Participant s employment 

6 

shall be
deemed to have terminated due to (a) early or normal retirement if such Participant
is then eligible to receive immediate early or normal retirement benefits under the
provisions of any of the Company s or its subsidiaries defined benefit pension
plans; or, in the absence of a defined benefit plan, provided such Participant
retires with ten years of service and is at least 55 years old or retires with five
years of service and is at least 65 years old and (b) total and permanent disability
if he is permanently disabled within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code, as in effect from time to time. 

For purposes of this Plan: (a) a transfer of an employee from the Company to a 50%
or more owned subsidiary, partnership, joint venture or other affiliate (whether or
not incorporated) or vice versa, or from one subsidiary, partnership, joint venture
or other affiliate to another or (b) a leave of absence duly authorized in writing
by the Company, provided the employee s right to re-employment is guaranteed either
by statute or by contract, shall not be deemed a termination of employment under the
Plan, notwithstanding the foregoing, from and after a Change of Control, as defined
in paragraph 20, Options and stock appreciation rights shall continue to be
exercisable for three months after a Participant s termination of employment. 

16.  Stock Appreciation Rights . Stock appreciation rights may be granted separate from any Option
granted under the Plan to any Participant. Such stock appreciation rights may be exercised by a
Participant by written notice of intent to exercise the stock appreciation rights delivered to the
Committee, which notice shall state the number of shares of stock in respect of which the stock
appreciation rights are being exercised. Upon such exercise, the Participant shall be entitled to
receive the economic
value of such stock appreciation rights determined in the manner described in subparagraph (b) of
this paragraph 16 and in the form prescribed in subparagraph (c) of this paragraph 16.

Stock appreciation rights shall be subject to terms and conditions not inconsistent with other
provisions of the Plan as shall be determined by the Committee, which shall include the following:

(a) 
       
     Stock appreciation rights granted in connection with the surrender of an Option
shall be exercisable or transferable at such time or times and only to the extent that
the Option to which they related was exercisable or transferable. The Committee shall
have complete authority to determine the terms and conditions applicable to other stock
appreciation rights, including the periods applicable to such rights, limitations on
exercise and the number of shares of stock in respect to which such stock appreciation
rights are exercisable. 

(b) 
       
     Upon the exercise of stock appreciation rights, a Participant shall be entitled
to receive the economic value thereof, which value shall be equal to the excess of the
fair market value of one share of Common Stock on the date of exercise over the grant
price per share, multiplied by the number of shares in respect of which the stock
appreciation rights shall have been exercised. Stock appreciation rights 

7 

which have
been so exercised shall no longer be exercisable in respect of such number of shares. 

(c) 
       
     The Committee shall have the sole discretion either (i) to determine the form
in which payment of such economic value will be made (i.e., cash, stock, or any
combination thereof) or (ii) to consent to or disapprove the election of the
Participant to receive cash in full or partial payment of such economic value. 

(d) 
       
     The exercise of stock appreciation rights by a Participant pursuant to the Plan
may be made only at such times as are permitted by Rule 16b-3 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, without liabilities, or such other securities laws or rules as
may be applicable. 

(e) 
       
     Stock appreciation rights shall be exercisable only when the fair market value
of the Common Stock to which the stock appreciation rights relate exceeds the grant
price of such stock appreciation rights. 

17.  Adjustment Provisions . In the event of any change in the shares of the Common Stock of the Company
by reason of a declaration of a stock dividend (other than a stock dividend declared in lieu of an
ordinary cash dividend), spin-off, merger, consolidation recapitalization, or split-up, combination
or exchange of shares, or otherwise, the aggregate number and class of shares available under this
Plan (including the per Participant limit on awards in Section 6), the number and class of shares
subject to each outstanding Option and stock appreciation right, the option price for shares
subject to each outstanding Option, and the option price or grant price and economic value of any
stock appreciation rights shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee, whose determination
shall be conclusive. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, any such
adjustment to an award that is exempt from Code Section 409A shall be made in manner that permits
the award to continue to be so exempt, and any adjustment to an award that is subject to Code
Section 409A shall be made in a manner that complies with the provisions thereof. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, in the case of a stock dividend (other than a stock dividend declared in lieu of an
ordinary cash dividend) or split-up (including a reverse stock split), if no action is taken by the
Committee, adjustments contemplated by this subsection that are proportionate shall nevertheless
automatically be made as of the date of such stock dividend or split-up . 

18.  Termination and Amendment of Plan . The Plan shall terminate on December 31, 2009, unless sooner
terminated as hereinafter provided. The Board of Directors may at any time terminate the Plan, or
amend the Plan as it shall deem advisable including (without limiting the generality of the
foregoing) any amendments deemed by the Board of Directors to be necessary or advisable to assure
conformity of the Plan and any Incentive Stock Options granted thereunder to the requirements of
Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code as now or hereafter in effect and to assure conformity
with any requirements of other state and federal laws or regulations now or hereafter in effect;
provided, however, that the Board of Directors may not, without further approval by the
shareholders of the Company, amend paragraph 24 or make any modifications to the Plan which, by
applicable law, require such approval. No termination or amendment of the Plan may, without the
consent of the Participant to whom any Option or stock appreciation rights shall have been granted,
adversely affect the

8 

rights of such Participant under such Option or stock appreciation rights.
The Board of Directors may also, in its discretion, permit any Option or stock appreciation right
to be exercised prior to the earliest date fixed for exercise thereof under the Option Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board specifically reserves the right to amend the provisions of
Sections 20 and 21 prior to the effective date of a Change of Control without the need to obtain
the consent of the Participants or any other individual with a right to an award granted hereunder.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless determined otherwise by the Board or Committee, any such
amendment shall be made in a manner that will enable an award intended to be exempt from Code
Section 409A to continue to be so exempt, or to enable an award intended to comply with Code
Section 409A to continue to so comply.

19.  Rights of a Shareholder . A Participant shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to
shares covered by his or her Option until the date of issuance of the stock to the participant and
only after such shares are fully paid or with respect to stock appreciation rights. No adjustment
will be made for dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such
stock is issued.

20.  Change of Control . Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon Change of Control, all previously granted
Options and stock appreciation rights shall immediately become exercisable to the full extent of
the original grant. For purposes of this Plan, a  Change of Control  means any of the following
events: (i) the acquisition, other than from the Company, by any individual, entity or group
(within the meaning of Section 13(d) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
from
time to time) (the  Exchange Act ) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3
promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (A) the then outstanding shares of
common stock of the Company (the  Outstanding Company Common Stock ) or (B) the combined voting
power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the
election of directors (the  Company Voting Securities ), provided, however, that any acquisition by
(x) the Company of any of its subsidiaries, or any employee benefit plan (or related trust)
sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (y) any corporation with
respect to which, following such acquisition, more than 60% of respectively, the then outstanding
shares of common stock of such corporation and the combined voting power of the then outstanding
voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is
then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and
entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and
Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such acquisition in substantially the same
proportion as their ownership, immediately prior to such acquisition of the Outstanding Company
Common Stock and Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, shall not constitute a change in
control of the Company; or (ii) individuals who, as of September 28, 1994, constitute the Board of
Directors of the Company (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a
majority of the Board, provided that any individual becoming a director subsequent to September 28,
1994, whose election or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders was approved by a
vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be
considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this
purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or
threatened election contest relating to the election of the Directors of the Company (as such terms
are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under

9 

the Exchange Act); or (iii) approval by
the shareholders of the Company of consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation (a
 Business Combination ), in each case, with respect to which all or substantially all of the of the
individuals and entities who were the respective beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company
Common Stock and Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination do not,
following such Business Combination, beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of,
respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then
outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case
may be, of the corporations resulting from such Business Combination in substantially the same
proportion as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination or the Outstanding
Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities, as the case may be; or (iv) (A) a complete
liquidation or dissolution of the company or a (B) sale or other disposition of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company other than to a corporation with respect to which,
following such sale or disposition, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of
common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to
vote generally in the election of directors is then owned beneficially, directly or indirectly, by
all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners,
respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities immediately
prior to such sale or disposition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the
Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, immediately
prior to such sale or disposition.

21.  Termination of Awards . Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon a Change in Control, the Committee may in its discretion,
commencing at the time of a Change in Control and continuing for a period of sixty days thereafter,
cancel each outstanding Option or stock appreciation right in exchange for a cash payment to the
holder thereof in an amount equal to the number of Options or stock appreciation rights that have
not been exercised multiplied by the excess of the fair market value per Share on the date of the
Change in Control (or, if the Change in Control is the result of a transaction or a series of
transactions described in paragraphs (i) or (ii) of the definition of Change in Control and the
Option or stock appreciation right is cancelled on the date of the Change in Control, the highest
price per Share paid in such transaction or series of transactions on the date of the Change in
Control) over the exercise price of the Option or the grant price of the stock appreciation right,
as the case may be.

22.  Governing Law and Arbitration . The Plan, and all awards hereunder, and all determinations made and
actions taken pursuant to the Plan, shall be governed by the internal laws of the State of
Wisconsin (without reference to conflict of law principles thereof) and construed in accordance
therewith, to the extent not otherwise governed by the laws of the United States or as otherwise
provided hereinafter. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, if any individual brings a
claim that relates to benefits under this Plan, regardless of the basis of the claim (including but
not limited to wrongful discharge or Title VII discrimination), such claim shall be settled by
final binding arbitration in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association
( AAA ) and the following provisions, and judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator may be
entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.

(a) 
       
      Initiation of Action . Arbitration must be initiated by serving or
mailing a written notice of the complaint to the other party. Normally, such written
notice should 

10 

be provided to the other party within one year (365 days) after the day
the complaining party first knew or should have known of the events giving rise to the
complaint. However, this time frame may be extended if the applicable statute of
limitation provides for a longer period of time. If the complaint is not properly
submitted within the appropriate time frame, all rights and claims that the complaining
party has or may have against the other party shall be waived and void. Any notice
sent to the Company shall be delivered to: 

Office of General Counsel 
Johnson Controls, Inc. 
5757 North Green Bay Avenue 
P.O. Box 591 
Milwaukee, WI 53201-0591

The notice must identify and describe the nature of all complaints asserted and the
facts upon which such complaints are based. Notice will be deemed given according
to the date of any postmark or the date of time of any personal delivery. 

(b) 
       
      Compliance with Personnel Policies . Before proceeding to arbitration
on a complaint, the claimant must initiate and participate in any complaint resolution
procedure identified in the Company s or subsidiary s personnel policies. If the
claimant has not initiated the complaint resolution procedure before initiating
arbitration on a complaint, the initiation of the arbitration shall be deemed to
begin the complaint resolution procedure. No arbitration hearing shall be held on a
complaint until any applicable Company or subsidiary complaint resolution procedure
has been completed. 

(c) 
       
      Rules of Arbitration . All arbitration will be conducted by a single
arbitrator according to the Employment Dispute Arbitration Rules of the AAA. The
arbitrator will have authority to award any remedy or relief that a court of competent
jurisdiction could order or grant including, without limitation, specific performance
of any obligation created under the award or policy, the awarding of punitive damages,
the issuance of any injunction, costs and attorney s fees to the extent permitted by
law, or the imposition of sanctions for abuse of the arbitration process. The
arbitrator s award must be rendered in a writing that sets forth the essential findings
and conclusions on which the arbitrator s award is based. 

(d) 
       
      Representation and Costs . Each party may be represented in the
arbitration by an attorney or other representative selected by the party. The Company
or subsidiary shall be responsible for its own costs, the AAA filing fee and all other
fees, costs and expenses of the arbitrator and AAA for administering the arbitration.
The claimant shall be responsible for his attorney s or representative s fees, if any.
However, if any party prevails on a statutory claim which allows the prevailing party
costs and/or attorneys  fees, the arbitrator may award costs and reasonable attorneys 
fees as provided by such statute. 

11 

(e) 
       
      Discovery; Location; Rules of Evidence . Discovery will be allowed to
the same extent afforded under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Arbitration will
be held at a location selected by the Company. AAA rules notwithstanding, the
admissibility of evidence offered at the arbitration shall be determined by the
arbitrator who shall be the judge of its materiality and relevance. Legal rules of
evidence will not be controlling, and the standard for admissibility of evidence will
generally be whether it is the type of information that responsible people rely upon in
making important decisions. 

(f) 
       
      Confidentiality . The existence, content or results of any arbitration
may not be disclosed by a party or arbitrator without the prior written consent of both
parties. Witnesses who are not a party to the arbitration shall be excluded from the
hearing except to testify. 

23.  Unfunded Plan . This Plan shall be unfunded. No person shall have any rights greater than those of
a general creditor of the Company.

24.  Repricing . Except for adjustments pursuant to paragraph 17, neither the per share Option price for any
outstanding Option granted under the Plan nor the per share grant price for stock appreciation
rights granted under the Plan may be decreased after the date of grant nor may an outstanding
Option or stock appreciation right granted under the Plan or a Prior Plan be surrendered to the
Company as consideration for the grant of a new Option or stock appreciation right with a lower
exercise or grant price.

25.  Termination for Cause or Inimical Conduct . Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan or an award
agreement to the contrary, a Participant s Option or stock appreciation right shall be immediately
cancelled and forfeited, regardless of vesting, and any pending exercises shall be cancelled, on
the date that: (a) the Company or subsidiary terminates the Participant s employment for Cause,
(b) the date that the Committee determines that the Participant s employment could have been
terminated for Cause if the Company or subsidiary had all relevant facts in its possession as of
the date of the Participant s termination, or (c) the Committee determines the Participant has
engaged in Inimical Conduct. The Committee may suspend all exercises or delivery of cash or
shares (without liability for interest thereon) pending its determination of whether the
Participant has been or should have been terminated for Cause or has engaged in Inimical Conduct.
For purposes hereof:

(a) 
       
      Cause  means: (1) if the Participant is subject to an employment agreement
that contains a definition of  cause,  such definition, or (2) otherwise, any of the
following as determined by the Committee: (a) violation of the provisions of any
employment agreement, non-competition agreement, confidentiality agreement, or similar
agreement with the Company or subsidiary, or the Company s or subsidiary s code of
ethics, as then in effect, (b) conduct rising to the level of gross negligence or
willful misconduct in the course of employment with the Company or subsidiary, (c)
commission of an act of dishonesty or disloyalty involving the Company or subsidiary,
(d) violation of any federal, state or local law in connection with the Participant s
employment, or (e) breach of any fiduciary duty to the Company or a subsidiary. 

12 

(b) 
       
      Inimical Conduct  means any act or omission that is inimical to the best of
interests of the Company or any subsidiary, as determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion, including but not limited to: (1) violation of any employment, noncompete,
confidentiality or other agreement in effect with the Company or any subsidiary, (2)
taking any steps or doing anything which would damage or negatively reflect on the
reputation of the Company or a subsidiary, or (3) failure to comply with applicable
laws relating to trade secrets, confidential information or unfair competition. 

26.  Offset . The Company shall have the right to offset, from any amount payable or stock deliverable
hereunder, any amount that the Participant owes to the Company or any subsidiary without the
consent of the Participant or any individual with a right to the Participant s award.

27.  Severability . In the event any provision of the Plan or any award agreement is held illegal or
invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the
Plan or such award agreement, and the Plan or award agreement shall be construed and enforced as if
the said illegal or invalid provision had not been included.

28.  Code Section 409A . The provisions of Code Section 409A are incorporated herein by reference to the
extent necessary for any award that is subject to Code Section 409A to comply therewith.
Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan, the Company does not guarantee to any Participant or
any other person with an interest in an award that any award intended to be exempt from Code
Section 409A shall be so exempt, nor that any award intended to comply with Code Section 409A shall
so comply, nor will the Company or any affiliate indemnify, defend or hold harmless any individual
with respect to the tax consequences of any such failure.

13 

</EX-10.N>

<EX-10.R>
 7
 c08525exv10wr.htm
 FORM OF RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT FOR 2001 RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN

exv10wr 

Amended March 21,2006 
 Exhibit 10.R 

RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT 

GRANTED TO 

NUMBER OF SHARES  

Employee Name

### 

GRANT DATE 

STOCK PRICE 

RESTRICTION PERIOD ENDS ON:   

dd/mm/yyyy

Closing Price on Grant Date

### Shares   dd/mm/yyyy 

### Shares   dd/mm/yyyy 

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 
RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN 

This certifies that on dd/mm/yyyy Johnson Controls, Inc., shall grant a Restricted Stock
Award as indicated above, upon the terms and conditions in this Agreement and the terms of the
Restricted Stock Plan dated October 1, 2001, and amended through March 21, 2006, which terms the
Participant accepts.

Johnson Controls, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation, has its principal office in Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
(the  Company ). The Restricted Stock Plan (the  Plan ) was adopted October 1, 2001, to allow
Restricted Shares or Restricted Share Units of the Company s common stock ( Shares ) to be granted
to certain key employees of the Company or any Subsidiary, as defined in Section 425(f) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Subsidiary ).

The individual named in this agreement (the  Participant ) is a key employee of the Company or a
Subsidiary, and the Company desires the Participant to remain in such employ by providing the
Participant with a means to increase his/her proprietary interest in the Company s success. The
Plan and this Agreement shall be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors (the  Committee ). If at any time the Committee shall not be in existence, the Board
shall administer the Plan and this Agreement and each reference to the Committee herein shall be
deemed to include the Board.

The parties mutually agree as follows:

1. 
       
      Grant of Award . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, a copy of which
has been delivered to the Participant and made a part hereof, and this Agreement, the
Company grants to the Participant an award of Restricted Shares on the date and with
respect to the number of Shares specified above. The Participant may elect, prior to or
within thirty (30) days after the grant date, to convert the Award, in whole or in part,
to Restricted Share Units. If the Participant fails to make an election, the Award shall
remain in the form of Restricted Shares. Any capitalized terms not defined in this
Agreement will have the meanings provided in the Plan. 

2. 
       
      Restricted Shares . If the Award is in the form of Restricted Shares, the
Restricted shares are subject to the following provisions: 

Restriction Period.  The Company will hold the Restricted Shares in escrow for the
Restriction Period. During this period, the Participant may not sell, transfer, pledge,
assign or otherwise use these Restricted Shares, and the Restricted Shares shall be subject
to forfeiture as provided in Section 4. 

Restricted Shares will be held in a book entry share position while in escrow, subject to
the transfer restrictions and risk of forfeiture. 

a) 
       
      Removal of Restrictions.  Restricted Shares that have not been forfeited
shall become available to the Participant after the last day of the Restriction Period.
Once the Shares are released, the restrictions shall be removed from the Participant s
book entry share position. 

b) 
       
      Voting Rights . During the Restriction Period, the Participant may exercise
full voting rights with respect to the Restricted Shares. 

c) 
       
      Dividends and Other Distributions . Any dividends or other distributions
paid or delivered with respect to Restricted Shares will be subject to the same terms
and conditions (including risk of forfeiture) as the Restricted Shares to which they
relate. All dividends or other distributions paid or delivered with respect to
Restricted Shares during the Restriction Period (other than dividends or other
distributions payable in Shares) shall be allocated to a Share Unit account under the
Deferred Compensation Plan. Dividends or distributions payable in shares will be held
in a book entry share position as Restricted Shares. 

d) 
       
      Payment of Dividends . The value of the Participant s Share Unit account as
to which the Restriction Period has lapsed shall be paid to the Participant (or his
beneficiary). 

3. 
       
      Restricted Share Units.  If the Participant elects to convert all or part of this
Award to Restricted Share Units, the Restricted Share Units are subject to the following
terms: 

a) 
       
      Establishment of Account . The Company shall establish a bookkeeping
account under the Deferred Compensation Plan to which shall be credited the number of
Restricted Share Units elected. During the Restriction Period, the Restricted Share
Unit account will be subject to a risk of forfeiture as provided in Section 4. 

b) 
       
      Alienation of Account . The Participant (or beneficiary) shall not have any
right to assign, transfer, pledge, encumber or otherwise use the Restricted Share Unit
account (including after the Restriction Period has lapsed). 

- 2 - 

c) 
       
      Dividends and Other Distributions . The Participant s Restricted Share Unit
account shall be credited for any dividends or other distributions delivered on Shares
equivalent to the number of Restricted Share Units credited to such account, whether in
the form of cash or in property, in accordance with the terms of the Deferred
Compensation Plan. Such credit shall be subject to the same terms and conditions
(including risk of forfeiture) as the Restricted Share Units to which they relate. 

d) 
       
      Payment of Account . The value of the Participant s Share Unit account as
to which the Restriction Period has lapsed shall be paid to the Participant (or his
beneficiary) in accordance with the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan. 

4. 
       
      Termination of Employment   Risk of Forfeiture.  

a) 
       
      Retirement . If the Participant terminates employment due to Retirement on
or after the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the
Award of Restricted Shares or Restricted Share Units is made, any remaining Restriction
Period shall continue as if the Participant continued in active employment. If the
Participant engages in Inimical Conduct after his Retirement, as determined by the
Committee, any Restricted Shares and/or Restricted Share Units still subject to a
Restriction Period shall automatically be forfeited as of the date of the Committee s
determination. 

b) 
       
      Death or Disability . If the Participant s employment from the Company and
its Subsidiaries terminates because of death or Total and Permanent Disability at a
time when the Participant could not have been terminated for Cause, or if the
Participant dies after Retirement while this Award is still subject to the Restriction
Period, any remaining Restriction Period shall automatically lapse as of the date of
such termination of employment or death, as applicable. 

c) 
       
      Other Termination.  If the Participant s employment terminates for any
reason not described above, then any Restricted Shares and/or Restricted Share Units
(and all deferred dividends paid or credited thereon) still subject to the Restriction
Period as of the date of such termination shall automatically be forfeited and returned
to the Company. In the event of the Participant s involuntary termination of
employment by the Company or a Subsidiary for other than Cause, the Committee may waive
the automatic forfeiture of any or all such Shares or Share Units (and all deferred
dividends paid or credited thereon) and may add such new restrictions to such
Restricted Shares or Restricted Share Units as it deems appropriate. The Company may
suspend payment or delivery of Shares (without liability for interest thereon) pending
the Committee s determination of whether the Participant was or should have been
terminated for Cause or whether the Participant has engaged in Inimical Conduct. 

5. 
       
      Amendment of Agreement.  The Committee, subject to the provisions of the Restricted
Stock Plan, may amend this award agreement. 

6. 
       
      Withholding.  The Participant agrees to remit to the Company any foreign, Federal,
state and/or local taxes (including the Participant s FICA obligation) required by law to be
withheld with respect to the issuance of Shares or the vesting and/or distribution of the
Participant s Share Unit account. The Company can withhold Shares no longer restricted, or
can withhold from other cash or property payable to the Participant, in the amount needed to
satisfy any withholding obligations. 

The Participant may elect to tender to the Company previously acquired Shares to satisfy the
minimum tax withholding obligations. The value of the Shares to be tendered is to be based on
the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is
determined. 

- 3 - 

7. 
       
      Securities Compliance.  The Company may place a legend or legends upon the certificates
for Shares issued under the Plan and may issue  stop transfer  instructions to its transfer
agent in respect of such Shares as it determines to be necessary or appropriate to (a) prevent
a violation of, or to obtain an exemption from, the registration requirements of the
Securities Act, applicable state securities laws or other legal requirements, or (b) implement
the provisions of the Plan or any agreement between the Company and the Participant with
respect to such Shares. 

8. 
       
      Successors.  All obligations of the Company under this Agreement shall be binding on
any successor to the Company. The terms of this Agreement and the Plan shall be binding upon
and inure to the benefit of the Participants, heirs, executors, administrators or legal
representatives. 

9. 
       
      Legal Compliance.  The granting of this Award and the issuance of Shares under this
Agreement shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations and to such
approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required. 

10. 
       
      Governing Law; Arbitration.  This Agreement and the rights and obligations hereunder
shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of
Wisconsin. 

Arbitration will be conducted per the provisions in the Restricted Stock Plan.

This Agreement, and any documents expressly incorporated herein, contains all of the provisions
applicable to the Restricted Stock Award. No other statements, documents or practices may modify,
waive or alter such provisions unless expressly set forth in writing, signed by an authorized
officer of the Company and delivered to the Participant.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Restricted Stock Agreement to be executed by one of
its duly authorized officers, and the Participant has consented to the terms of this Agreement, as
of the date of Grant specified on the front of this certificate.

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 

Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel

Participant

Date

- 4 - 

</EX-10.R>

<EX-10.S>
 8
 c08525exv10ws.htm
 EXECUTIVE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

exv10ws 

Exhibit 10.S 

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 
EXECUTIVE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 

ARTICLE 1.   
  PURPOSE AND DURATION  

Section 1.1.   Purpose . The Johnson Controls, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) permits certain
employees of the Company and its Affiliates to defer amounts otherwise payable or shares
deliverable under separate bonus or equity plans or programs maintained by the Company or an
Affiliate.

Section 1.2.   Duration . The Plan was originally effective on October 1, 2001, as a consolidation of the deferral
features of various separate plans. The Plan was most recently amended and restated effective as
of January 1, 2005. The Plan shall remain in effect until terminated by the Board pursuant to
Section 9.5.

ARTICLE 2.   
  DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION  

Section 2.1.   Definitions . Wherever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and,
where the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized:

(a)  Account  means the record keeping account or accounts maintained to record the interest
of each Participant under the Plan. An Account is established for record keeping purposes only and
not to reflect the physical segregation of assets on the Participant s behalf, and may consist of
such subaccounts or balances as the Administrator may determine to be necessary or appropriate.

(b)  Act  means the Securities Act of 1933, as interpreted by regulations and rules issued
pursuant thereto, all as amended and in effect from time to time. Any reference to a specific
provision of the Act shall be deemed to include reference to any successor provision thereto.

(c)  Administrator  means the Employee Benefits Policy Committee of the Company.

(d)  Affiliate  means each entity that is required to be included in the Company s controlled
group of corporations within the meaning of Code Section 414(b), or that is under common control
with the Company within the meaning of Code Section 414(c).

(e)  Beneficiary  means the person(s) or entity(ies) designated by a Participant to be his
beneficiary for purposes of this Plan as provided in Section 6.4.

(f)  Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company.

(g)  Change of Control  has the meaning ascribed in Section 8.3.

(h)  Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as interpreted by regulations and rulings
issued pursuant thereto, all as amended and in effect from time to time. Any reference to a
specific provision of the Code shall be deemed to include reference to any successor provision
thereto.

(i)  Committee  means the Compensation Committee of the Board, which shall consist of not less
than two members of the Board, each of whom is also a director of the Company and qualifies as a
 non-employee director  for purposes of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act.

(j)  Company  means Johnson Controls, Inc., and its successors as provided in Section 9.7.

(k)  Deferral  means the amount credited, in accordance with a Participant s election or as
required by the Plan, to the Participant s Account in lieu of the payment in cash thereof, or the
issuance of Shares with respect thereto. Deferrals include the following:

(1) Annual Incentive Deferrals: A deferral of all or a portion of a
Participant s performance cash award under the annual incentive
portion of the Johnson Controls, Inc. Annual and Long-Term Incentive
Performance Plan (or any successor plan thereto) and, with the
consent of the Administrator, any other annual bonus plan maintained
by the Company or an Affiliate.

(2) Long-Term Incentive Deferrals: A deferral of all or a portion
of a Participant s performance cash award under the long-term
incentive portion of the Johnson Controls, Inc. Annual and Long-Term
Incentive Performance Plan (or any successor plan thereto) and, with
the consent of the Administrator, any other multi-year bonus plan
maintained by the Company or an Affiliate.

(3) Share Deferrals: A deferral of the Shares that would otherwise
be issuable to a Participant in the form of restricted stock under
any plan of the Company providing for the grant of restricted stock.

(4) Deferred Restricted Stock Dividends: A deferral of the dividends
paid on restricted shares granted under any plan of the Company
while such shares are subject to a period of restriction.

(l)  ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as interpreted by
regulations and rulings issued pursuant thereto, all as amended and in effect from time to time.
Any reference to a specific provision of ERISA shall be deemed to include reference to any
successor provision thereto.

(m)  Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as interpreted by regulations
and rules issued pursuant thereto, all as amended and in effect from time to time.
Any reference to a specific provision of the Exchange Act shall be deemed to include reference
to any successor provision thereto.

(n)  Fair Market Value  means with respect to a Share, except as otherwise provided herein,
the closing sales price on the New York Stock Exchange as of 4:00 p.m. EST on the date

2 

in question
(or the immediately preceding trading day if the date in question is not a trading day), and with
respect to any other property, such value as is determined by the Administrator.

(o)  Investment Options  means the investment options offered under the Johnson Controls
Savings and Investment (401k) Plan (excluding the Company stock fund) or any successor plan
thereto, the Share Unit Account, and any other alternatives made available by the Administrator,
which shall be used for the purpose of measuring hypothetical investment experience attributable to
a Participant s Account.

(p)  Participant  means an employee of the Company or any Affiliate who is employed in the
United States and is participating in the Company s Stock Ownership Program, and any other employee
of the Company or any Affiliate who is selected for participation under a Company or Affiliate plan
described in paragraph (k) and who is offered the ability (or is required) to make Deferrals
hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee shall limit the foregoing group of
eligible employees to a select group of management and highly compensated employees, as determined
by the Committee in accordance with ERISA. Where the context so requires, a Participant also means
a former employee entitled to receive a benefit hereunder.

(q)  Plan Year  means the fiscal year of the Company.

(r)  Separation from Service  means a Participant s termination of employment from the Company
and all Affiliates, subject to the following:

(1) If a Participant takes a leave of absence from the Company or an
Affiliate for purposes of military leave, sick leave or other bona
fide leave of absence, the Participant s employment will be deemed
to continue for the first six (6) months of the leave of absence, or
if longer, for so long as the Participant s right to reemployment is
provided by either by statute or by contract. If the period of the
leave exceeds six (6) months and the Participant s right to
reemployment is not provided by either statute or contract, the
Participant will be considered to have incurred a Separation from
Service on the first day of the seventh (7 th ) month of
the leave of absence.

(2) If a Participant provides insignificant services to the Company
or an Affiliate, the Participant will be deemed to have incurred a
Separation from Service. For this purpose, a Participant is not
considered to be providing insignificant services if he or she
provides services at an annual rate that is at least equal to twenty
percent (20%) of the services rendered by such individual, on
average, during the immediately preceding three (3) calendar years
of employment (or his or her actual period of employment if less)
and the annual remuneration for such services is at least equal to
twenty percent (20%) of the average annual remuneration earned
during the final three (3) full calendar years of employment (or his
or her actual period of employment, if less).

3 

(3) If a Participant continues to provide services to the Company or
an Affiliate in a capacity other than as an employee, the
Participant will not be deemed to have Separated from Service if the
Participant is providing services at an annual rate that is at least
fifty percent (50%) of the services rendered by such individual, on
average, during the immediately preceding three (3) calendar years
of employment (or his or her actual period of employment if less)
and the annual remuneration for such services is at least fifty
percent (50%) of the average annual remuneration earned during the
final three (3) full calendar years of employment (or his or her
actual period of employment if less).

(s)  Share  means a share of common stock of the Company.

(t)  Share Unit Account  means the account described in Article 7, which is deemed invested in
Shares.

(u)  Share Units  means the hypothetical Shares that are credited to the Share Unit Accounts
in accordance with Article 7.

(v)  Unforeseeable Emergency  means a severe financial hardship of the Participant, resulting
from any of the following:

(1) an illness or accident of the Participant, his or her spouse or
dependent (as defined in Code Section 152(a));

(2) a loss of the Participant s property due to casualty (including
the need to rebuild a home following damage to a home not otherwise
covered by insurance, for example, as a result of a natural
disaster); or

(3) other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances
arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant,
as determined by the Administrator.

(w)  Valuation Date  means each day when the United States financial markets are open for
business, as of which the Administrator will determine the value of each Account and will make
allocations to Accounts.

Section 2.2.   Construction . Wherever any words are used in the masculine, they shall be construed as though they were used
in the feminine in all cases where they would so apply; and wherever any words are use in the
singular or the plural, they shall be construed as though they were used in the plural or the
singular, as the case may be, in all cases where they would so apply. Titles of articles and
sections are for general information only, and the Plan is not to be construed by reference to such
items.

Section 2.3.   Severability . In the event any provision of the Plan is held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality
or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and
enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.

4 

ARTICLE 3.   
  PARTICIPATION  

Section 3.1.   Effective Date . Each individual for whom an Account is maintained under the Plan as of December 31, 2004, shall
continue in participation hereunder on January 1, 2005.

Section 3.2.   New Participants . Each employee of the Company or an Affiliate shall automatically become a Participant on the
date he makes (or is deemed to make) a deferral election under Article IV.

ARTICLE 4.   
  DEFERRALS OF COMPENSATION  

Section 4.1.   Annual Incentive Deferrals . A Participant may elect prior to the
first day of the fiscal year of the Company or an Affiliate for which an annual incentive award is
made, to have all or a part of the amount payable under his annual incentive award (but not less
than $1,000) deferred under this Plan. A Participant s election to defer an annual incentive award
payment shall be effective only for the award to which the election relates, and shall not carry
over from award to award. As of the first day of the fiscal year for which the award is made, the
Participant s deferral election shall be irrevocable except as provided in Section 4.5.

Section 4.2.   Long-Term Incentive Deferrals . A Participant who has been awarded a long-term incentive award may elect, prior to the first day
of the final year of the performance period for such award (whether a calendar year or the fiscal
year of the Company or an Affiliate, as applicable), to have all or a part of the amount payable
under his long-term incentive award (but not less than $1,000) deferred under this Plan. A
Participant s election to defer a long-term incentive payment shall be effective only for the award
to which the election relates, and shall not carry over from award to award. As of the first day
of the final fiscal year of the performance period for such award, the Participant s deferral
election shall be irrevocable except as provided in Section 4.5.

Section 4.3.   Deferral of Restricted Stock . A Participant may elect prior to or within the first thirty (30) days following the date the
Company grants share of restricted stock to defer all or any portion of the restricted stock
awarded to such Participant; provided the first vesting date for such restricted stock award is
thirteen (13) months from the grant date. A Participant s election to defer restricted stock shall
be effective only for the Shares to which the election relates, and shall not carry over from award
to award. Share Deferrals shall be subject to the same risk of forfeiture as the restricted shares
to which such Deferrals relate. As of the date on which the shares of restricted stock would have
been granted, the Participant s deferral election shall be irrevocable except as provided in
Section 4.5; provided that, if the Share Deferrals vest within thirteen (13) months following the
date of grant of the restricted stock, then if and to the extent required by Code Section 409A,
such deferral election shall be cancelled and the restricted stock shall be delivered to the
Participant on such vesting date.

Section 4.4.   Deferral of Dividends on Restricted Stock . All cash dividends paid with respect to restricted stock granted by the Company to a Participant
while such stock is subject to

5 

a period of restriction shall be automatically deferred as Deferred
Restricted Stock Dividends. Deferred Restricted Stock Dividends shall be subject to the same risk
of forfeiture as the restricted shares to which such Deferrals relate.

Section 4.5.   Cancellation of Deferral Elections . If a Participant receives a
distribution due to an Unforeseeable Emergency and requests cancellation of his or her deferral
elections under Section 4.1, 4.2 or 4.3, or if the Administrator determines that such deferral
elections must be cancelled in order for the Participant to receive a distribution due to an
Unforeseeable Emergency , then the Participant s deferral election(s) shall be cancelled.
Likewise, if required for the Participant to receive a hardship distribution under the Johnson
Controls Savings and Investment (401k) Plan (or any successor plan thereto), or any other 401(k)
plan maintained by the Company or an Affiliate, the Participant s deferral election(s) shall be
cancelled. A Participant whose deferral election(s) are cancelled pursuant to this Section 4.5 may
make a new deferral election under Sections 4.1, 4.2 or 4.3 with respect to future incentive awards
or restricted stock awards, as applicable, unless otherwise prohibited by the Administrator.

Section 4.6.   Administration of Deferral Elections . All deferral elections
must be made in the form and manner and within such time periods as the Administrator prescribes in
order to be effective.

ARTICLE 5.   
  HYPOTHETICAL INVESTMENT OPTIONS  

Section 5.1.   Investment Election . Amounts credited to a Participant s Account shall reflect the investment experience of the
Investment Options selected by the Participant, provided that Share Deferrals and Deferred
Restricted Stock Dividends shall be automatically deemed invested in the Share Unit Account. The
Participant may make an initial investment election at the time of enrollment in the Plan in whole
increments of one percent (1%). A Participant may also elect to reallocate his or her
Account, and may elect to allocate any future Deferrals, among the various Investment Options in
whole increments of one percent (1%) from time to time as prescribed by the Administrator; provided
that prior to November 15, 2006, Share Deferrals and Deferred Restricted Stock Dividends shall not
be eligible for re-allocation out of the Share Unit Account. On and after November 15, 2006,
Shares Deferrals and Deferred Restricted Stock Dividends that are vested may be re-allocated our of
the Share Unit Account, subject to any restrictions on re-allocation as may be imposed by the
Company. Such investment elections shall remain in effect until changed by the Participant. All
investment elections shall become effective as soon as practicable after receipt of such election
by the Administrator, and must be made in the form and manner and within such time periods as the
Administrator prescribes in order to be effective. In the absence of an effective election, the
Participant s Account (to the extent the Plan does not require Deferrals to be allocated to the
Share Unit Account) shall be deemed invested in the default fund specified for the Johnson Controls
Inc. Savings and Investment (401k) Plan (or any successor plan thereto).

On each Valuation Date, the Administrator (or its designee) shall credit the deemed investment
experience with respect to the selected (or required) Investment Options to each

6 

Participant s
Account. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company retains the right to
allocate actual amounts hereunder without regard to a Participant s request.

Section 5.2.   Allocations to Investment Options .

(a)  Incentive Deferrals . Annual and Long-Term Incentive Deferrals will be deemed
invested in an Investment Option as of the date on which the deferrals would have otherwise been
paid to the Participant.

(b)  Share Deferrals . Share Deferrals will be credited to a Participant s Share Unit
Account as of the date the Participant would have otherwise been issued shares of restricted stock.

(c)  Deferred Restricted Stock Dividends . Whenever the Company declares a cash
dividend on its Shares at a time when a Participant is deemed to have Deferred Restricted Stock
Dividends, a dividend award shall be made to such Participant as of the date the dividend is paid
to the Company s shareholder. The dividend award for a Participant shall be determined by
multiplying the number of restricted shares held by such Participant on the date the dividend is
declared by the amount or Fair Market Value of the dividend paid on one Share. All such dividend
awards shall be credited to a Participant s Share Unit Account as of the date of the dividend
payment.

Section 5.3.   Securities Law Restrictions . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, all elections under Article 5 or 6 by a
Participant who is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act are subject to review by the
Administrator prior to implementation. In accordance with Section 9.2, the Administrator may
restrict additional transactions, rescind transactions, or impose other rules and procedures, to
the extent deemed desirable by the Administrator in order to comply with the Exchange Act, including,
without limitation, application of the review and approval provisions of this Section 5.3 to
Participants who are not subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.

Section 5.4.   Accounts are For Record Keeping Purposes Only . Plan Accounts and the record keeping procedures described herein serve solely as a device for
determining the amount of benefits accumulated by a Participant under the Plan, and shall not
constitute or imply an obligation on the part of the Company or any Affiliate to fund such
benefits. In any event, the Company or an Affiliate may, in its discretion, set aside assets equal
to part or all of such Account balances and invest such assets in Company stock, life insurance or
any other investment deemed appropriate. Any such assets, including Company stock, shall be and
remain the sole property of the employer that set aside such assets, and a Participant shall have
no proprietary rights of any nature whatsoever with respect to such assets.

7 

ARTICLE 6.   
  DISTRIBUTION OF ACCOUNTS  

Section 6.1.   Form of Distribution  . A Participant, at the time he makes an initial deferral election under the Plan pursuant to any
provision of Article 4, may elect the form of distribution with respect to each of the following
sub-accounts:

(a) Annual Incentive Deferrals, including interest, earnings or losses thereon.

(b) Long-Term Incentive Deferrals, including interest, earnings or losses thereon.

(c) Share Deferrals, as adjusted for gains or losses thereon.

Such election shall be made in such form and manner as the Administrator may prescribe, and
shall be irrevocable. The election shall specify whether distributions shall be made in a single
lump sum or from two (2) to ten (10) annual installments. In the absence of a distribution
election with respect to a particular subaccount, payment shall be made in ten (10) annual
installments.

No election shall be made with respect to Deferred Restricted Stock Dividends, which are
automatically paid in a lump sum when the related restricted shares vest.

Section 6.2.   Time of Distribution .

(a)  Separation from Service . Upon a Participant s Separation from Service for any
reason, the Participant, or his Beneficiary in the event of his death, shall be entitled to payment
of the amount accumulated in such Participant s Account.

(b)  Payment of Deferred Restricted Stock Dividends . Notwithstanding anything herein
to the contrary, the portion of the Participant s Share Unit Account that is related to Deferred
Restricted Stock Dividends shall be paid to the Participant at the time the shares of restricted
stock to which such deferrals relate are no longer subject to a period of restriction.

(c)  Earlier Distribution . Notwithstanding the foregoing, a distribution may be made
prior to the date specified in subsection (a) or (b) above as follows:

(1) If an amount deferred under this Plan is required to be included
in income under Code Section 409A prior to the date such amount is
actually distributed, a Participant shall receive a distribution, in
a lump sum as soon as practicable after the date the Plan fails to
meet the requirements of Code Section 409A, of the amount required
to be included in the Participant s income as a result of such
failure.

(2) If an amount under the Plan is required to be immediately
distributed in a lump sum under a domestic relations order within
the meaning of Code Section 414(p)(1)(B), it may be distributed

8 

according to the terms of such order, provided the Participant holds
the Administrator harmless with respect to such distribution. The
Plan shall not distribute amounts required to be distributed under a
domestic relations order other than in the limited circumstance
specifically stated herein.

Section 6.3.   Manner of Distribution . The Participant s Account shall be paid in cash in the following manner:

(a)  Lump Sum . If payment is to be made in a lump sum,

(1) for those Participants whose Separation from Service occurs from
January 1 through June 30 of a year, payment shall be made in the
first calendar quarter of the following year, and

(2) for those Participants whose Separation from Service occurs from
July 1 through December 31 of a year, payment shall be made in the
third calendar quarter of the following year.

The lump sum payment shall equal the balance of the Participant s Account as of the Valuation
Date immediately preceding the distribution date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the portion of
the Participant s Share Unit Account related to Deferred Restricted Stock Dividends shall be paid
as provided in Section 6.2(b).

(b)  Installments . If payment is to be made in annual installments, the first annual
payment shall be made:

(1) for those Participants whose Separation from Service occurs from
January 1 through June 30 of a year, in the first calendar quarter
of the following year, and

(2) for those Participants whose Separation from Service occurs
during the period from July 1 through December 31 of a year, in the
third calendar quarter of the following year.

The amount of the first annual payment shall equal the value of 1/10 th  (or
1/9 th , 1/8 th , 1/7 th , etc. depending on the number of installments
elected) of the balance of the Participant s Account as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding
the distribution date. All subsequent annual payments shall be made in the first calendar quarter
of each subsequent calendar year, and shall be in an amount equal to the value of 1/9 th 
(or 1/8 th , 1/7 th , 1/6 th , etc. depending on the number of
installments elected) of the balance of the Participant s Account as of the Valuation Date
immediately preceding the distribution date. The final annual installment payment shall equal the
then remaining balance of such Account as of the Valuation Date preceding such final payment date.

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, if the balance of a Participant s Account at
distribution date is less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) during the payout period, the

9 

remaining balance shall be paid in the form of a lump sum on (or as soon as practicable following)
such distribution date.

(c)  Delay in Payment . Notwithstanding the foregoing, a distribution may be delayed
beyond the date it would have otherwise been paid under subsection (a) or (b) in the following
circumstances:

(1) If the distribution will violate the terms of a loan agreement
or other similar contract to which the Company or an Affiliate, as
applicable, is a party, and if any such violation will cause
material harm to the Company or Affiliate, the distribution shall be
delayed until the first date that a violation will not occur or the
violation will not cause material harm to the Company or an
Affiliate.

(2) If the distribution will violate the terms of Section 16(b) of
the Exchange Act or other Federal securities laws, or any other
applicable law, then the distribution shall be delayed until the
earliest date on which making the distribution will not violate such
law.

Section 6.4.   Distribution of Remaining Account Following Participant s Death .

(a)  Distribution . In the event of the Participant s death prior to receiving all
payments due hereunder, the balance of the Participant s Account shall be paid to the Participant s
Beneficiary in a lump sum as soon as practicable after the Participant s death.

(b)  Designation of Beneficiary . Each Participant may designate a Beneficiary in such
form and manner and within such time periods as the Administrator may prescribe. A Participant can
change his beneficiary designation at any time, provided that each beneficiary designation shall
revoke the most recent designation, and the last designation received by the Administrator while
the Participant was alive shall be given effect. If a Participant designates a Beneficiary without
providing in the designation that the Beneficiary must be living at the time of distribution, the
designation shall vest in the Beneficiary the distribution payable after the Participant s death,
and such distribution if not paid by the Beneficiary s death shall be made to the Beneficiary s
estate. In the event there is no valid beneficiary designation in effect at the time of the
Participant s death, in the event the Participant s designated Beneficiary does not survive the
Participant, or in the event that the beneficiary designation provides that the Beneficiary must be
living at the time of distribution and such designated Beneficiary does not survive to the
distribution date, the Participant s estate will be deemed the Beneficiary and will be entitled to
receive payment. If a Participant designates his spouse as a beneficiary, such beneficiary
designation automatically shall become null and void on the date the Administrator receives notice
of the Participant s divorce or legal separation.

Section 6.5.   Distribution in Event of Unforeseeable Emergency . If requested by a Participant while in the employ of the Company or an Affiliate and if the
Administrator determines that an Unforeseeable Emergency has occurred, all or part of the
Participant s vested Account may be paid out to the Participant in a cash lump sum. The amount to
be distributed to

10 

the Participant shall only be such amount as is needed to alleviate the
Participant s Unforeseeable Emergency, including any Federal, state or local income taxes or
penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the distribution, after taking into account the
extent to which the emergency is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation from
insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participant s assets (to the extent such liquidation
would not itself cause a severe financial hardship), or by cessation of deferrals under the Plan.

Section 6.6.   Tax Withholding . The Company shall have the right to deduct from any deferral or payment made hereunder, or from
any other amount due a Participant, the amount of cash and/or Fair Market Value of Shares
sufficient to satisfy the Company s or Affiliate s foreign, federal, state or local income tax
withholding obligations with respect to such deferral (or vesting thereof) or payment. In
addition, if prior to the date of distribution of any amount hereunder, the Federal Insurance
Contributions Act (FICA) tax imposed under Code Sections 3101, 3121(a) and 3121(v)(2), where
applicable, becomes due, the Participant s Account balance shall be reduced by the amount needed to
pay the Participant s portion of such tax.

Section 6.7.   Offset . The Company or Affiliate shall have the right to offset from any amount payable hereunder any
amount that the Participant owes to the Company or any Affiliate without the consent of the
Participant (or his Beneficiary, in the event of the Participant s death).

ARTICLE 7.   
  RULES WITH RESPECT TO SHARE UNITS  

Section 7.1.   Valuation of Share Unit Account . When any amounts are to be allocated to a Share Unit Account (whether in the form of Deferrals
or amounts that are deemed re-allocated from another Investment Option), such amount shall be
converted to whole and fractional Share Units, with fractional units calculated to three decimal
places, by dividing the amount to be allocated by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the effective
date of such allocation. If any dividends or other distributions are paid on Shares while a
Participant has Share Units credited to his Account, such Participant shall be credited with a
dividend award equal to the amount of the cash dividend paid or Fair Market Value of other property
distributed on one Share, multiplied by the number of Share Units credited to his Share Unit
Account on the date the dividend is declared. The dividend award shall be converted into
additional Share Units as provided above using the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the
dividend is paid or distributed. Any other provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding,
if a dividend is paid on Shares in the form of a right or rights to purchase shares of capital
stock of the Company or any entity acquiring the Company, no additional Share Units shall be
credited to the Participant s Share Unit Account with respect to such dividend, but each Share Unit
credited to a Participant s Share Unit Account at the time such dividend is paid, and each Share
Unit thereafter credited to the Participant s Share Unit Account at a time when such rights are
attached to Shares, shall thereafter be valued as of any point in time on the basis of the
aggregate of the then Fair Market Value of one Share plus the then Fair Market Value of such right
or rights then attached to one Share.

Section 7.2.   Transactions Affecting Common Stock . In the event of any merger, share exchange, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization,
stock dividend, stock split or other

11 

change in corporate structure of the Company affecting Shares,
the Committee may make appropriate equitable adjustments with respect to the Share Units credited
to the Share Unit Account of each Participant, including without limitation, adjusting the date as
of which such units are valued and/or distributed, as the Committee determines is necessary or
desirable to prevent the dilution or enlargement of the benefits intended to be provided under the
Plan.

Section 7.3.   No Shareholder Rights With Respect to Share Units . Participants shall have no rights as a stockholder pertaining to Share Units credited to their
Accounts. No individual shall have any right to receive a distribution of Company stock under
this Plan. All distributions from the Share Unit Account are made in cash.

ARTICLE 8.   
  SPECIAL RULES APPLICABLE IN THE EVENT OF A CHANGE OF CONTROL OF THE COMPANY  

Section 8.1.   Acceleration of Payment of Accounts . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, within 30 days after a Change of Control, each
Participant, including Participants receiving installment payments under the Plan, shall be
entitled to receive a lump sum payment in cash of all amounts accumulated in such Participant s
Account. Such payment shall be made as soon as practicable following the Change of Control.

In determining the amount accumulated in a Participant s Share Unit Account, each Share Unit
shall have a value equal to the higher of (a) the highest reported sales price, regular way, of a
share of the Company s common stock on the Composite Tape for New York Stock Exchange Listed Stocks
(the  Composite Tape ) during the sixty-day period prior to the date of the Change of Control of
the Company and (b) if the Change of Control of the Company is the result of a transaction or
series of transactions described in Section 8.3(a), the highest price per Share of the Company paid
in such transaction or series of transactions.

Section 8.2.   Definition of a Change of Control . A Change of Control means any of the following events, provided that each such event would
constitute a change of control within the meaning of Code Section 409A:

(a) The acquisition, other than from the Company, by any individual, entity or group of
beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule l3d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act),
including in connection with a merger, consolidation or reorganization, of more than either:

(1) Fifty percent (50%) of the then outstanding shares of common
stock of the Company (the  Outstanding Company Common Stock ) or

(2) Thirty-five (35%) of the combined voting power of the then
outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote
generally in the election of directors (the  Company Voting
Securities ),

12 

provided, however , that any acquisition by (x) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or any
employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its
subsidiaries or (y) any corporation with respect to which, following such acquisition, more than
60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the
combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to
vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by
all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners,
respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities immediately
prior to such acquisition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership, immediately
prior to such acquisition, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities,
as the case may be, shall not constitute a Change in Control of the Company; or

(b) Individuals who, as of January 1, 2005, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease
for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board during any 12-month period,  provided 
that any individual becoming a director subsequent to January 1, 2005, whose election or nomination
for election by the Company s shareholders was approved by a vote of at
least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board, shall be considered as
though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board; or

(c) A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or sale or other disposition of all
or substantially all of the assets of the Company other than to a corporation with respect to
which, following such sale or disposition, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding
shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities
entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then owned beneficially, directly or
indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial
owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities
immediately prior to such sale or disposition in substantially the same proportion as their
ownership of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities, as the case may
be, immediately prior to such sale or disposition. For purposes hereof,  a sale or other
disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company  will not be deemed to have
occurred if the sale involves assets having a total gross fair market value of less than forty
percent (40%) of the total gross fair market value of all assets of the Company immediately prior
to the acquisition. For this purpose,  gross fair market value  means the value of the assets
without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets.

For purposes of this Section 8.2, persons will not be considered to be acting as a  group 
solely because they purchase or own stock of the Company at the same time, or as a result of the
same public offering. However, persons will be considered to be acting as a  group  if they are
owners of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock,
or similar business transaction with the Company. If a person, including an entity, owns stock in
the Company and any other corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or
acquisition of stock, or similar transaction, such shareholder is considered to be acting as a
group with other shareholders in such corporation only with respect to the ownership in that
corporation prior to the transaction giving rise to the change and not with respect to the
ownership interest in the Company.

13 

Section 8.3.   Maximum Payment Limitation .

(a)  Limit on Payments . Except as provided in subsection (b) below, if any portion of
the payments or benefits described in this Plan or under any other agreement with or plan of the
Company or an Affiliate (in the aggregate,  Total Payments ), would constitute an  excess parachute
payment , then the Total Payments to be made to the Participant shall be reduced such that the
value of the aggregate Total Payments that the Participant is entitled to receive shall be one
dollar ($1) less than the maximum amount which the Participant may receive without becoming subject
to the tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or which the Company may pay without loss of
deduction under Section 280G(a) of the Code;  provided that  this Section shall not apply in the case
of a Participant who has in effect a valid employment contract providing that the Total Payments to
the Participant shall be determined without regard to the maximum amount allowable under Section
280G of the Code. The terms  excess parachute payment  and  parachute payment  shall have the
meanings assigned to them in Section 280G of the Code, and such  parachute payments  shall be
valued as provided therein. Present value shall be calculated in accordance with Section 280G(d)(4) of the Code. Within forty (40) days
following delivery of notice by the Company to the Participant of its belief that there is a
payment or benefit due the Participant which will result in an excess parachute payment, the
Participant and the Company, at the Company s expense, shall obtain the opinion (which need not be
unqualified) of nationally recognized tax counsel selected by the Company s independent auditors
and acceptable to the Participant in his sole discretion (which may be regular outside counsel to
the Company), which opinion sets forth (1) the amount of the Base Period Income, (2) the amount and
present value of Total Payments and (3) the amount and present value of any excess parachute
payments determined without regard to the limitations of this Section. As used in this Section,
the term  Base Period Income  means an amount equal to the Participant s  annualized includible
compensation for the base period  as defined in Section 280G(d)(1) of the Code. For purposes of
such opinion, the value of any noncash benefits or any deferred payment or benefit shall be
determined by the Company s independent auditors in accordance with the principles of Sections
280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code, which determination shall be evidenced in a certificate of such
auditors addressed to the Company and the Participant. Such opinion shall be addressed to the
Company and the Participant and shall be binding upon the Company and the Participant. If such
opinion determines that there would be an excess parachute payment, the payments hereunder that are
includible in Total Payments or any other payment or benefit determined by such counsel to be
includible in Total Payments shall be reduced or eliminated as specified by the Participant in
writing delivered to the Company within thirty days of his receipt of such opinion or, if the
Participant fails to so notify the Company, then as the Company shall reasonably determine, so that
under the bases of calculations set forth in such opinion there will be no excess parachute
payment. If such legal counsel so requests in connection with the opinion required by this
Section, the Participant and the Company shall obtain, at the Company s expense, and the legal
counsel may rely on in providing the opinion, the advice of a firm of recognized executive
compensation consultants as to the reasonableness of any item of compensation to be received by the
Participant. If the provisions of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code are repealed without
succession, then this Section shall be of no further force or effect.

(b)  Employment Contract Governs . The provisions of subsection (a) above shall not
apply to a Participant whose employment is governed by an employment contract that provides for
Total Payments in excess of the limitation described in subsection (a) above.

14 

ARTICLE 9.   
  GENERAL PROVISIONS  

Section 9.1.   Administration .

(a)  General . The Committee shall have overall authority with respect to
administration of the Plan;  provided  that the Administrator shall have responsibility for the
general operation and daily administration of the Plan as specified herein. If at any time the
Committee shall not be in existence or not be composed of members of the Board who qualify as
 non-employee directors , then all determinations affecting Participants who are subject to Section
16 of the Exchange Act shall be made by the full Board, and all determinations affecting
other Participants shall be made by the Board or an officer of the Company or other committee
appointed by the Board (with the assistance of the Administrator). The Committee or Administrator
may, in its discretion, delegate any or all of its authority and responsibility;  provided  that the
Committee shall not delegate authority and responsibility with respect to non-ministerial functions
that relate to the participation by Participants who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act
at the time any such delegated authority or responsibility is exercised. To the extent of any such
delegation, any references herein to the Committee or Administrator, as applicable, shall be deemed
references to such delegatee. Interpretation of the Plan shall be within the sole discretion of
the Committee or the Administrator with respect to their respective duties hereunder. If any
delegatee of the Committee or the Administrator shall also be a Participant or Beneficiary, any
determinations affecting the delegatee s participation in the Plan shall be made by the Committee
or Administrator, as applicable.

(b)  Authority and Responsibility . In addition to the authority specifically provided
herein, the Committee and Administrator shall have the discretionary authority to take any action
or make any determination it deems necessary for the proper administration of its respective duties
under the Plan, including but not limited to: (1) prescribe rules and regulations for the
administration of the Plan; (2) prescribe forms for use with respect to the Plan; (3) interpret and
apply all of the Plan s provisions, reconcile inconsistencies or supply omissions in the Plan s
terms; (4) make appropriate determinations, including factual determinations, and calculations; and
(5) prepare all reports required by law. Any action taken by the Committee shall be controlling
over any contrary action of the Administrator. The Committee or Administrator may delegate its
ministerial duties to a third party and to the extent such delegation, references to the Committee
or Administrator herein shall mean such delegatee.

(c)  Decisions Binding . The Committee s and Administrator s determinations shall be
final and binding on all parties with an interest hereunder, unless determined to be arbitrary and
capricious.

(d)  Procedures of the Committee . The Committee s determinations must be made by not
less than a majority of its members present at the meeting (in person or otherwise) at which a
quorum is present, or by written consent, which sets forth the action, is signed by each member of
the Committee and filed with the minutes for proceedings of the Committee. A majority of the
entire Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Administrator s
determinations shall be made in accordance with such procedures it establishes.

15 

(e)  Indemnification . Service on the Committee or as an Administrator shall constitute
service as a director or officer of the Company so that the Committee and Administrator members
shall be entitled to indemnification, limitation of liability and reimbursement of expenses with
respect to their Committee or Administrator services to the same extent that they are entitled
under the Company s By-laws and Wisconsin law for their services as directors or officers of the
Company.

Section 9.2.   Restrictions to Comply with Applicable Law . All transactions under the Plan are intended to comply with all applicable conditions of Rule
16b-3 under the Exchange Act. The Committee and Administrator shall administer the Plan so
that transactions under the Plan will be exempt from or comply with Section 16 of the Exchange Act,
and shall have the right to restrict or rescind any transaction, or impose other rules and
requirements, to the extent it deems necessary or desirable for such exemption or compliance to be
met.

Section 9.3.   Claims Procedures .

(a)  Initial Claim . If a Participant or Beneficiary (the  claimant ) believes that he
is entitled to a benefit under the Plan that is not provided, the claimant or his legal
representative shall file a written claim for such benefit with the Committee within one hundred
and eighty (180) days from the date the claimant receives the distribution giving rise to the claim
or knows of the facts giving rise to the claim. The Committee shall review the claim within ninety
(90) days following the date of receipt of the claim;  provided  that the Committee may determine
that an additional ninety (90)-day extension is necessary due to circumstances beyond the
Committee s control, in which event the Committee shall notify the claimant prior to the end of the
initial period that an extension is needed, the reason therefor and the date by which the Committee
expects to render a decision. If the claimant s claim is denied in whole or part, the Committee
shall provide written notice to the claimant of such denial. The written notice shall include:
the specific reason(s) for the denial; reference to specific Plan provisions upon which the denial
is based; a description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to
perfect the claim and an explanation of which such material or information is necessary; and a
description of the Plan s review procedures (as set forth in subsection (b)) and the time limits
applicable to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil
action under section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse determination upon review.

(b)  Request for Appeal . The claimant has the right to appeal the Committee s decision
by filing a written appeal to the Committee within sixty (60) days after claimant s receipt of the
decision or deemed denial. The claimant will have the opportunity, upon request and free of
charge, to have reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records and other information
relevant to the claimant s appeal. The claimant may submit written comments, documents, records
and other information relating to his claim with the appeal. The Committee will review all
comments, documents, records and other information submitted by the claimant relating to the claim,
regardless of whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial claim
determination. The Committee shall make a determination on the appeal within sixty (60) days after
receiving the claimant s written appeal;  provided  that the Committee may determine that an
additional sixty (60)-day extension is necessary due to circumstances beyond the Committee s
control, in which event the Committee shall notify the claimant prior to the end

16 

of the initial
period that an extension is needed, the reason therefor and the date by which the Committee expects
to render a decision. If the claimant s appeal is denied in whole or part, the Committee shall
provide written notice to the claimant of such denial. The written notice shall include: the
specific reason(s) for the denial; reference to specific Plan provisions upon which the denial is
based; a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge,
reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records, and other information relevant to the
claimant s claim; and a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under
section 502(a) of ERISA. If the claimant does not receive a written decision within the time
period(s) described above, the appeal shall be deemed denied on the last day of such period(s).

(c)  ERISA Fiduciary . For purposes of ERISA, the Committee shall be considered the
named fiduciary under the Plan and the plan administrator.

Section 9.4.   Participant Rights Unsecured .

(a)  Unsecured Claim . The right of a Participant or his Beneficiary to receive a
distribution hereunder shall be an unsecured claim, and neither the Participant nor any Beneficiary
shall have any rights in or against any amount credited to his Account or any other specific assets
of the Company or an Affiliate. The right of a Participant or Beneficiary to the payment of
benefits under this Plan shall not be assigned, encumbered, or transferred, except as permitted
under Section 6.4. The rights of a Participant hereunder are exercisable during the Participant s
lifetime only by him or his guardian or legal representative.

(b)  Contractual Obligation . The Company or an Affiliate may authorize the creation of
a trust or other arrangements to assist it in meeting the obligations created under the Plan.
However, any liability to any person with respect to the Plan shall be based solely upon any
contractual obligations that may be created pursuant to the Plan. No obligation of the Company or
an Affiliate shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge of, or other encumbrance on, any property
of the Company or any Affiliate. Nothing contained in this Plan and no action taken pursuant to
its terms shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship
between the Company or an Affiliate and any Participant or Beneficiary, or any other person.

Section 9.5.   Amendment or Termination of Plan .

(a)  Amendment . The Committee may at any time amend the Plan, including but not
limited to modifying the terms and conditions applicable to (or otherwise eliminating) Deferrals to
be made on or after the amendment date;  provided, however,  that no amendment may reduce or
eliminate any Account balance accrued to the date of such amendment (except as such Account balance
may be reduced as a result of investment losses allocable to such Account) without a Participant s
consent except as otherwise specifically provided herein; and  provided further  that the Board must
approve any amendment that expands the class of employees eligible for participation under the
Plan, that materially increases the benefits provided under the Plan or that is required to be
approved by the Board by any applicable law or the listing requirements of the national securities
exchange upon which the Company s common stock is then traded . In addition, the Administrator may
at any time amend the Plan to make administrative changes and changes necessary to comply with
applicable law.

17 

(b)  Termination . The Committee may terminate the Plan in accordance with the
following provisions. Upon termination of the Plan, any deferral elections then in effect shall be
cancelled.

(1) The Committee may terminate the Plan within twelve (12) months
of a corporate dissolution taxed under Code Section 331, or with the
approval of a bankruptcy court pursuant to 11 U.S.C.  503(b)(1)(A),
provided that the amounts accrued under the Plan are distributed to
the Participants or Beneficiaries, as applicable, in a single sum
payment, regardless of any distribution election then in effect, in
the later of: (A) the calendar year in which the Plan termination
occurs or (B) the first calendar year in which payment is
administratively practicable.

(2) The Committee may terminate the Plan at any time during the
period that begins thirty (30) days prior and ends twelve (12)
months following a Change of Control, provided that all
substantially similar arrangements (within the meaning of Code
Section 409A) sponsored by the Company are terminated, so that all
participants under similar arrangements are required to receive all
amounts of compensation deferred under the terminated arrangements
within twelve (12) months of the date of termination of the
arrangements.

(3) The Committee may terminate the Plan at any other time. In such
event, the balance of all Accounts will be distributed to all
Participants or Beneficiaries, as applicable, in a single sum
payment mo earlier than twelve (12) months (and no later than
twenty-four (24) months) after the date of termination, regardless
of any distribution election then in effect. This provision shall
not be effective unless all other plans required to be aggregated
with this Plan under Code Section 409A are also terminated.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment that would otherwise be
paid during the twelve (12)-month period beginning on the Plan
termination date pursuant to the terms of the Plan shall be paid in
accordance with such terms. In addition, the Company or any
Affiliate shall be prohibited from adopting a similar arrangement
within five (5) years following the date of the Plan s termination,
unless any individual who was a Participant under this Plan is
excluded from participating thereunder for such five (5) year
period.

Section 9.6.   Administrative Expenses . Costs of establishing and administering the Plan will be paid by the Company and its
participating Affiliates.

18 

Section 9.7.   Successors and Assigns . This Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and
assigns and the Participants and their heirs, executors, administrators, and legal representatives.

Section 9.8.   Governing Law; Limitation on Actions; Dispute Resolution .

(a)  Governing Law . This Plan is intended to be a plan of deferred compensation
maintained for a select group of management or highly compensated employees as that term is used in
ERISA, and shall be interpreted so as to comply with the applicable requirements thereof. In all
other respects, the Plan is to be construed and its validity determined according to the laws of
the State of Wisconsin (without reference to conflict of law principles thereof) to the extent such
laws are not preempted by federal law.

(b)  Limitation on Actions . Any action or other legal proceeding with respect to the
Plan may be brought only after the claims and appeals procedures of Section 9.3 are exhausted and
only within period ending on the earlier of (1) one year after the date claimant receives notice or
deemed notice of a denial upon appeal under Section 9.3(b), or (2) the expiration of the applicable
statute of limitations period under applicable federal law. Any action or other legal proceeding
not adjudicated under ERISA must be arbitrated in accordance with the provisions of subsection (c).

(c)  Arbitration .

(1)  Application . Notwithstanding any employee agreement in
effect between a Participant and the Company or any Affiliate
employer, if a Participant or Beneficiary brings a claim that
relates to benefits under this Plan that is not covered under ERISA,
and regardless of the basis of the claim (including but not limited
to, actions under Title VII, wrongful discharge, breach of
employment agreement, etc.), such claim shall be settled by final
binding arbitration in accordance with the rules of the American
Arbitration Association ( AAA ) and judgment upon the award rendered
by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction
thereof.

(2)  Initiation of Action . Arbitration must be initiated by
serving or mailing a written notice of the complaint to the other
party. Normally, such written notice should be provided to the
other party within one year (365 days) after the day the complaining
party first knew or should have known of the events giving rise to
the complaint. However, this time frame may be extended if the
applicable statute of limitation provides for a longer period of
time. If the complaint is not properly submitted within the
appropriate time frame, all rights and claims that the
complaining party has or may have against the other party shall be
waived and void. Any notice sent to the Company shall be delivered
to:

19 

Office of General Counsel 
Johnson Controls, Inc. 
5757 North Green Bay Avenue 
P.O. Box 591 
Milwaukee, WI 53201-0591

The notice must identify and describe the nature of all complaints asserted and
the facts upon which such complaints are based. Notice will be deemed given
according to the date of any postmark or the date of time of any personal delivery.

(3)  Compliance with Personnel Policies . Before proceeding
to arbitration on a complaint, the Participant or Beneficiary must
initiate and participate in any complaint resolution procedure
identified in the Company s or Affiliate s personnel policies. If
the claimant has not initiated the complaint resolution procedure
before initiating arbitration on a complaint, the initiation of the
arbitration shall be deemed to begin the complaint resolution
procedure. No arbitration hearing shall be held on a complaint
until any applicable complaint resolution procedure has been
completed.

(4)  Rules of Arbitration . All arbitration will be conducted
by a single arbitrator according to the Employment Dispute
Arbitration Rules of the AAA. The arbitrator will have authority to
award any remedy or relief that a court of competent jurisdiction
could order or grant including, without limitation, specific
performance of any obligation created under policy, the awarding of
punitive damages, the issuance of any injunction, costs and
attorney s fees to the extent permitted by law, or the imposition of
sanctions for abuse of the arbitration process. The arbitrator s
award must be rendered in a writing that sets forth the essential
findings and conclusions on which the arbitrator s award is based.

(5)  Representation and Costs . Each party may be represented
in the arbitration by an attorney or other representative selected
by the party. The Company or Affiliate shall be responsible for its
own costs, the AAA filing fee and all other fees, costs and expenses
of the arbitrator and AAA for administering the arbitration. The
claimant shall be responsible for his attorney s or representative s
fees, if any. However, if any party prevails on a statutory claim
which allows the prevailing party costs and/or attorneys  fees, the
arbitrator may award costs and reasonable attorneys  fees as
provided by such statute.

(6)  Discovery; Location; Rules of Evidence . Discovery will
be allowed to the same extent afforded under the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure. Arbitration will be held at a location selected by

20 

the Company. AAA rules notwithstanding, the admissibility of
evidence offered at the arbitration shall be determined by the
arbitrator who shall be the judge of its materiality and relevance.
Legal rules of evidence will not be controlling, and the standard
for admissibility of evidence will generally be whether it is the
type of information that responsible people rely upon in making
important decisions.

(7)  Confidentiality . The existence, content or results of
any arbitration may not be disclosed by a party or arbitrator
without the prior written consent of both parties. Witnesses who
are not a party to the arbitration shall be excluded from the
hearing except to testify.

21 

ADDENDUM 
SPECIAL TRANSITION RULES

Pursuant to the provisions of Notice 2005-1: 

1. 
       
     In reliance on the 6-month advance deferral election for performance-based compensation, the
Company provided each Participant with an opportunity to file a new deferral election by March
31, 2005, with respect to each of such Participant s Annual and Long-Term Incentive Awards
that had not yet been paid as of the date the election was filed. 

2. 
       
     The Company provided each Participant with an opportunity to file a new distribution election
during calendar year 2005, with respect to each of his Annual Incentive Deferrals sub-account,
Long-Term Incentive Deferrals sub-account and Share Deferrals sub-account. The new
distribution election allowed the Participant to select a lump sum or up to ten (10) annual
installments for each of his sub-accounts. The distribution election received by the
Administrator as of December 31, 2005 is irrevocable. 

3. 
       
     The Company permitted the following individuals to cancel participation in the Plan and
receive a lump sum payout in 2005 of his Account Balance: John Fiori 

22 

</EX-10.S>

<EX-10.T>
 9
 c08525exv10wt.htm
 2003 STOCK PLAN FOR OUTSIDE DIRECTORS

exv10wt 

Exhibit 10.T 

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 
2003 STOCK PLAN 
FOR OUTSIDE DIRECTORS 

1. 
       
       Establishment  . JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. (the  Company ) hereby establishes a plan for
the members of its Board of Directors who are not officers or employees of the Company or any
of its subsidiaries ( Outside Directors ), as described herein, which shall be known as the
JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 2003 STOCK PLAN FOR OUTSIDE DIRECTORS (the  Plan ). This Plan is
amended and restated as of October 1, 2006. 

2. 
       
       Purpose  . The purpose of the Plan is to advance the Company s growth and success and
to advance its interests by attracting and retaining well-qualified Outside Directors upon
whose judgment the Company is largely dependent for the successful conduct of its operations
and by providing such individuals with incentives to put forth maximum efforts for the
long-term success of the Company s business. 

3. 
       
       Effective Date of the Plan  . The effective date of the Plan is October 1, 2003,
subject to its approval by the shareholders of the Company at the annual meeting to be held on
January 28, 2004. 

4. 
       
       Stock Subject to the Plan  . Subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions
of Section 8, the total number of shares of common stock of the Company ( Common Stock ),
available for awards under this Plan shall not exceed 80,000 shares. Shares of Common Stock
to be delivered under the Plan shall be made available from presently authorized but unissued
Common Stock or authorized and issued shares of Common Stock
reacquired and held as treasury shares, or a combination thereof. 

5. 
       
       Administration  . 

(a) 
       
     The Plan shall be administered by the Corporate Governance Committee (the
 Committee ) of the Board of Directors. 

(b) 
       
     Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have
authority to interpret the Plan, to the extent provided by law. 

(c) 
       
     The members of the Committee shall be entitled to indemnification and
reimbursement by the Company in respect of any claim, loss, damage or expense
(including attorney s fees) arising from any act, omission, interpretation,
construction or determination made in connection with the Plan to the full extent
permitted by law and under any directors and officers liability insurance that may be
in effect from time to time. 

(d) 
       
     A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, and the acts of a
majority of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present, or acts
approved in writing by a majority of the Committee without a meeting, shall be the acts
of the Committee. 

6. 
       
       Grants of Common Stock  . Each Outside Director shall be granted Common Stock as
follows: 

(a) 
       
      Initial Grants  prior to October 1, 2006  . On and after January 28,
2004  and prior to October 1, 2006 , any individual, other than an individual who was
serving on the Board of Directors prior to that date, who is elected or appointed to
the Board of Directors as an Outside Director shall be granted 800 shares of Common
Stock upon such Director s election or appointment. 

(b) 
       
      Subsequent Grants prior to October 1, 2006 . On January 28, 2004 and on
the date of each subsequent annual meeting of shareholders of the Company ( Grant
Date ) that occurs prior to October 1, 2006, an Outside Director, if elected,
re-elected or retained as an Outside Director at such meeting, shall be granted such
number of shares of Common Stock, rounded down to the nearest whole share, whose value
on the Grant Date shall equal fifty (50) percent of the annual retainer fee voted by
the Board of Directors, exclusive of any meeting or committee fees. The value of a
share of Common Stock on the Grant Date means the closing sales price on that date, or
on the next preceding trading day if such date was not a trading day, as reported on
the New York Stock Exchange or as otherwise determined by the Committee. The remaining
percent of the annual retainer fee, both for Outside Directors serving on January 28,
2004 and Outside Directors who may begin serving on the Board of Directors thereafter,
shall be paid in cash at that time less any required withholdings for taxes and related
charges. Prior to October 1, 2006, Directors elected during the year shall be granted
a proportionate share of the annual retainer fee at the time of their election, with
fifty (50) percent each in Common Stock and cash as set forth above. The Committee
shall have the right to reduce the percentage of the retainer fee to be paid in Common
Stock in any calendar year, provided that such reductions may be made only one time in
each calendar year. 

(c) 
       
      Grants on and after October 1, 2006 . Effective October 1, 2006, an
Outside Director in office on November 15, 2006, and thereafter, an Outside Director in
office on the first business day coincident with or following the first day of each
calendar quarter (each, a  Grant Date ), shall be granted such number of shares of
Common Stock, rounded down to the nearest whole share, whose value on the Grant Date
shall equal fifty percent (50%) of the aggregate fees voted by the Board of Directors
to be paid to such director on such date. The value of a share of Common Stock on the
Grant Date means the closing sales price on that date, or on the next preceding trading
day if such date was not a trading day, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.
The remaining fifty percent (50%) of the aggregate fees to be paid to such director
shall be paid in cash on the Grant Date. The Committee shall have the right to reduce
the percentage of the fees to be paid in Common Stock in any fiscal year. 

(d) 
       
      Deferral of Grants . An Outside Director may defer receipt of all or
any portion of the Common Stock and/or cash received pursuant to Section 6(b) or (c) in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the Johnson Controls, Inc. Deferred 

2 

Compensation Plan for Certain Directors (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ). An
Outside Director may not defer receipt of any portion of the Common Stock received
pursuant to Section 6(a). 

7. 
       
       Termination of Service as Outside Director  . If an Outside Director ceases to serve
on the Board of Directors, then all rights to receive Common Stock hereunder shall terminate
immediately. 

8. 
       
       Adjustment Provisions  . In the event of any change in the shares of the Common Stock
by reason of a declaration of a stock dividend (other than a stock dividend declared in lieu
of an ordinary cash dividend), spin-off, merger, consolidation, recapitalization, or split-up,
combination or exchange of shares or otherwise, the aggregate number of shares available under
this Plan shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee, using the same standards and/or
formulas as it uses in making adjustments under the Johnson Controls, Inc. 2000 Stock Option
Plan and, upon its approval by the Company s shareholders, the Johnson Controls, Inc. 2007
Stock Option Plan. 

9. 
       
       Termination and Amendment of Plan  . The Board of Directors (acting through the
Committee to the extent permitted by law) may at any time terminate the Plan and may amend the
Plan, not more often than once in any six month period, as it shall deem advisable including
(without limiting the generality of the foregoing) any amendments deemed by the Board of
Directors to be necessary or advisable to assure conformity of the Plan with any requirements
of state and federal laws or regulations now or hereafter in effect; provided, however, that
the Board of Directors may not, without further approval by the shareholders of the Company
make any modifications which, under Rule 16b-3 or the rules of the New York Stock Exchange,
require such approval. 

10. 
       
       Rights as a Shareholder  . An Outside Director shall have no rights as a shareholder
with respect to Common Stock granted under this Plan until the date of issuance of the stock
certificate to him or her. No adjustment will be made for dividends or other rights for which
the record date is prior to the date such Common Stock is issued. All dividends and voting
rights accrue as of the Grant Date to the Outside Director. 

11. 
       
       Governing Law  . The Plan, all awards hereunder, and all determinations made and
actions taken pursuant to the Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of Wisconsin and
construed in accordance therewith, to the extent not otherwise governed by the Internal
Revenue Code or the laws of the United States. 

12. 
       
       Unfunded Plan  . This Plan shall be unfunded. No person shall have any rights greater
than those of a general creditor of the Company. 

3 

</EX-10.T>

<EX-10.U>
 10
 c08525exv10wu.htm
 LETTER AGREEMENT

exv10wu 

Exhibit 10.U 

Johnson Controls, Inc. 
5757 North Green Bay Avenue 
Post Office Box 591 
Milwaukee, WI 53201-0591 
Tel. 414-524-2233 
Fax 414-524-3311

John M. Barth 
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Mr. Giovanni Fiori 
Via Riaffrico, 38 
51016 Montecatini Terme 
(Pistoia) ITALY

Dear John:

Please refer to the letter between you and Johnson Controls, Inc. dated
November 29, 2004 amending your Executive Employment Agreement. This is to confirm that we have
mutually agreed upon January 1, 2008, as your
retirement date for purposes of that letter.

To evidence your confirmation, please sign both copies of this letter and keep on copy for your
personal files.

</EX-10.U>

<EX-10.Z>
 11
 c08525exv10wz.htm
 RETIREMENT RESTORATION PLAN

exv10wz 

Exhibit 10.Z 

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 
RETIREMENT RESTORATION PLAN 

ARTICLE 1.   
  PURPOSE AND DURATION  

Section 1.1.   Purpose . The purpose of the Johnson Controls Retirement Restoration Plan (formerly the Equalization
Benefit Plan) is to restore retirement benefits to certain participants in the Company s or its
subsidiary s pension or savings plans whose benefits under said plans are or will be limited by
reason of Code Sections 401(a)(17), 401(k), 401(m), 402(g) and/or 415, and/or by reason of the
election of such employees to defer income or reduce salary pursuant to this Plan or to defer
annual incentive payments pursuant to the Johnson Controls, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan. This Plan is completely separate from the tax-qualified pension plans maintained by the
Company and is not funded or qualified for special tax treatment under the Code. The Plan is
intended to be an unfunded plan covering a select group of management and highly compensated
employees for purposes of ERISA.

Section 1.2.   Duration of the Plan . The Plan became effective as of January 1, 1980, and was most recently amended and restated
effective January 1, 2005, and includes amendments through January 1, 2006. The provisions of the
Plan as amended and restated apply to each individual with an interest hereunder on or after
January 1, 2005. The Plan shall remain in effect until terminated pursuant to Article 8.

ARTICLE 2.   
  DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION  

Section 2.1.   Definitions . Wherever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and,
where the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized:

(a)  Actuarial Equivalent  means a benefit of equivalent value determined in accordance with
acceptable actuarial principles, utilizing the interest and mortality rates specified for actuarial
equivalence in the Pension Plan.

(b)  Administrator  means the Employee Benefits Policy Committee of the Company.

(c)  Affiliate  means each entity that is required to be included in the Company s controlled
group of corporations within the meaning of Code Section 414(b), or that is under common control
with the Company within the meaning of Code Section 414(c).

(d)  Annual Incentive Plan  means the annual incentive portion  only  of the Johnson
Controls, Inc. Annual and Long-Term Incentive Performance Plan as from time to time amended
and in effect and any successor to such plan maintained by the Company or any successor or
affiliate of the Company.

(e)  Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company.

(f)  Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as interpreted by regulations and rulings
issued pursuant thereto, all as amended and in effect from time to time. Any reference to a
specific provision of the Code shall be deemed to include reference to any successor provision
thereto.

(g)  Committee  means the Compensation Committee of the Board.

(h)  Company  means Johnson Controls, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation, and its successors as
provided in Article 13.

(i)  ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as interpreted by
regulations and rulings issued pursuant thereto, all as amended and in effect from time to time.
Any reference to a specific provision of ERISA shall be deemed to include reference to any
successor provision thereto.

(j)  Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as interpreted by regulations
and rules issued pursuant thereto, all as amended and in effect from time to time. Any reference
to a specific provision of the Exchange Act shall be deemed to include reference to any successor
provision thereto.

(k)  Fair Market Value  means with respect to a Share, except as otherwise provided herein,
the closing sales price of a Share on the New York Stock Exchange as of 4:00 p.m. EST on the date
in question (or the immediately preceding trading day if the date in question is not a trading
day), and with respect to any other property, such value as is determined by the Administrator.

(l)  Investment Options  means the Share Unit Account and any other options made available by
the Administrator, which shall be used for the purpose of measuring hypothetical investment
experience attributable to a Participant s Savings Supplement Account.

(m)  Participant  means an employee of the Company or a subsidiary who is described in an
applicable Appendix hereto;  provided  that the Committee shall limit the foregoing group of eligible
employees to a select group of management and highly compensated employees, as determined by the
Committee in accordance with ERISA. Where the context so requires, a Participant also means a
former employee entitled to receive a benefit hereunder.

(n)  Pension Plan  means the Johnson Controls Pension Plan, a defined benefit pension plan,
and any successor to such plan maintained by the Company.

(o)  Pension Plan Benefits  means the aggregate monthly benefits payable under the Pension
Plan.

(p)  Pension Plan Supplement Benefits  means the aggregate monthly benefits payable under an
applicable Appendix hereto as a supplement to a Participant s Pension Plan Benefits.

(q)  Savings Plan  means the Johnson Controls Savings and Investment (401(k)) Plan, a defined
contribution plan, and any successor to such plan maintained by the Company.

2 

(r)  Savings Supplement Account  means the record keeping account or accounts maintained to
record the interest of each Participant under Article 5 of the Plan and the applicable Appendices.
A Savings Supplement Account is established for record keeping purposes only and not to reflect the
physical segregation of assets on the Participant s behalf, and may consist of such subaccounts or
balances as the Administrator may determine to be necessary or appropriate.

(s)  Separation from Service  means a Participant s termination of employment from the Company
and all Affiliates, subject to the following:

(1) If a Participant takes a leave of absence from the Company or an
Affiliate for purposes of military leave, sick leave or other bona
fide leave of absence, the Participant s employment will be deemed
to continue for the first six (6) months of the leave of absence, or
if longer, for so long as the Participant s right to reemployment is
provided by either by statute or by contract. If the period of the
leave exceeds six (6) months and the Participant s right to
reemployment is not provided by either statute or contract, the
Participant will be considered to have incurred a Separation from
Service on the first day of the seventh (7 th ) month of
the leave of absence.

(2) If a Participant provides insignificant services to the Company
or an Affiliate, the Participant will be deemed to have incurred a
Separation from Service. For this purpose, a Participant is not
considered to be providing insignificant services if he or she
provides services at an annual rate that is at least equal to twenty
percent (20%) of the services rendered by such individual, on
average, during the immediately preceding three (3) calendar years
of employment (or his or her actual period of employment if less)
and the annual remuneration for such services is at least equal to
twenty percent (20%) of the average annual remuneration earned
during the final three (3) full calendar years of employment (or his
or her actual period of employment, if less).

(3) If a Participant continues to provide services to the Company or
an Affiliate in a capacity other than as an employee, the
Participant will not be deemed to have Separated from Service if the
Participant is providing services at an annual rate that is at least
fifty percent (50%) of the services rendered by such individual, on
average, during the immediately preceding three (3)
calendar years of employment (or his or her actual period of
employment if less) and the annual remuneration for such services is
at least fifty percent (50%) of the average annual remuneration
earned during the final three (3) full calendar years of employment
(or his or her actual period of employment if less).

(t)  Share  means a share of common stock of the Company.

3 

(u)  Share Unit Account  means the account described in Section 5.4, which is deemed invested
in Shares.

(v)  Share Units  means the hypothetical Shares that are credited to the Share Unit Accounts
in accordance with Section 5.3.

(w)  Spouse  means the person to whom a Participant is lawfully married pursuant to Federal
law;  provided  that for purposes of payment of the death benefit under Section 4.3,  Spouse  means
the person to whom a deceased Participant was lawfully married pursuant to Federal law throughout
the 1-year period preceding the date of his or her death.

(x)  Unforeseeable Emergency  means a severe financial hardship of the Participant, resulting
from any of the following:

(1) an illness or accident of the Participant, his or her spouse or
dependent (as defined in Code Section 152(a));

(2) a loss of the Participant s property due to casualty (including
the need to rebuild a home following damage to a home not otherwise
covered by insurance, for example, as a result of a natural
disaster); or

(3) other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances
arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant,
as determined by the Administrator.

(y)  Valuation Date  means each day when the United States financial markets are open for
business, as of which the Administrator will determine the value of each Account and will make
allocations to Accounts.

Section 2.2.   Construction . Wherever any words are used in the masculine, they shall be construed as though they were used
in the feminine in all cases where they would so apply; and wherever any words are used in the
singular or the plural, they shall be construed as though they were used in the plural or the
singular, as the case may be, in all cases where they would so apply. Titles of articles and
sections are for general information only, and the Plan is not to be construed by reference to such
items.

Section 2.3.   Severability . In the event any provision of the Plan is held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality
or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and
enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.

ARTICLE 3.   
  ADMINISTRATION  

Section 3.1.   General . The Committee shall have overall authority with respect to administration of the Plan,  provided 
that the Administrator shall have responsibility for the general operation and daily administration
of the Plan as specified herein. If at any time the Committee shall not be in existence, then the
administrative functions of the Committee shall be

4 

assumed by the Board (with the assistance of the
Administrator), and any references herein to the Committee shall be deemed to include references to
the Board.

Section 3.2.   Authority and Responsibility . In addition to the authority specifically provided herein, the Committee and the Administrator
shall have the discretionary authority to take any action or make any determination it deems
necessary for the proper administration of the Plan with respect to its respective duties,
including but not limited to the power and authority to: (a) prescribe rules and regulations for
the administration of the Plan; (b) prescribe forms for use with respect to the Plan; (c) interpret
and apply all of the Plan s provisions, reconcile inconsistencies or supply omissions in the Plan s
terms; (d) make appropriate determinations, including factual determinations, and calculations; and
(e) prepare all reports required by law. Any action taken by the Committee shall be controlling
over any contrary action of the Administrator. The Committee or Administrator may delegate its
ministerial duties to a third party and to the extent of such delegation, references to the
Committee or Administrator hereunder shall mean such delegatee.

Section 3.3.   Decisions Binding . The Committee s and the Administrator s determinations shall be final and binding on all parties
with an interest hereunder, unless determined to be arbitrary and capricious.

Section 3.4.   Procedures for Administration . The Committee s determinations must be made by not less than a majority of its members present
at the meeting (in person or otherwise) at which a quorum is present, or by written majority
consent, which sets forth the action, is signed by the members of the Committee and filed with the
minutes for proceedings of the Committee. A majority of the entire Committee shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business. Service on the Committee shall constitute service as a
director of the Company so that the Committee members shall be entitled to indemnification,
limitation of liability and reimbursement of expenses with respect to their Committee services to
the same extent that they are entitled under the Company s By-laws and Wisconsin law for their
services as directors of the Company. The Administrator s determinations shall be made in
accordance with procedures it establishes.

Section 3.5.   Restrictions to Comply with Applicable Law . All transactions under the Plan are intended to comply with all applicable conditions of Rule
16b-3 under the Exchange Act. The Committee and the Administrator shall administer the Plan so
that transactions under the Plan will be exempt from or comply with Section 16 of the Exchange Act,
and shall have the right to restrict or rescind any transaction, or impose other rules and
requirements, to the extent it deems necessary or desirable for such exemption or compliance to be
met.

ARTICLE 4.   
  PENSION PLAN SUPPLEMENT  

Section 4.1.   Eligibility for and Amount of Benefits . Participants shall be
eligible for Pension Plan Supplement Benefits in accordance with the terms of the applicable
Appendix.

Section 4.2.   Payment of Pension Plan Supplement Benefits . The following provisions
apply to all Participants except those specified on the Addendum.

5 

(a)  Annuity Starting Date . The annuity starting date of a Participant s vested
Pension Plan Supplement Benefit shall be the later to occur of: (i) the first day of the month
coincident with or following the Participant s attainment of age fifty-five (55) (even if the
Participant does not survive to such date) or (ii) the first day of the month coincident with or
following the Participant s Separation from Service.

(b)  Timing of Payment . Payment of the vested Pension Plan Supplement Benefit shall
begin on the Participant s annuity starting date, or if later, the first day of the seventh month
following the month in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs (the  Delayed Payment
Date ). If monthly payments are to begin on a Delayed Payment Date, then all monthly payments that
were due from the annuity starting date to the Delayed Payment Date shall be accumulated and paid
in a lump sum on the Delayed Payment Date, and the Participant shall receive an additional payment
of interest (equal to the interest rate assumption used for non-lump sum Actuarial Equivalence)
calculated on a simple (i.e. non-compounded) basis from the Annuity Starting Date to the Delayed
Payment Date.

(c)  Normal Form of Payment . Subject to the Participant s election of an alternative
form of benefit under subsection (d),

(1) For a Participant who has no Spouse on the annuity starting date, payment shall
be made in the form of a single life annuity, which provides monthly payments for
the life of the Participant, beginning on the annuity starting date and ending with
the payment due for the month in which the Participant s death occurs, in the amount
calculated under the applicable Appendix.

(2) For a Participant who has a Spouse on the annuity starting date, payment shall
be made in the form of a joint and fifty percent (50%) survivor annuity, which
provide monthly payments for the life of the Participant in reduced amounts which
are the Actuarial Equivalent of the payments calculated under the applicable
Appendix, and in the event the Participant predeceases his Spouse,
monthly payments equal to fifty percent (50%) of such reduced amounts shall be
continued to such Spouse for the Spouse s life. Payments of such benefits shall end
with the payment due for the month in which the later of the death of the
Participant or his Spouse (as applicable) occurs.

(3) If the Participant dies before his annuity starting date under this Plan and
payment is to be made to the Spouse of the Participant, payment shall be made in the
form of a single life annuity, which provides monthly payments for the life of the
Spouse, beginning on the annuity starting date and ending with the payment due for
the month in which the Spouse s death occurs, in the amount calculated under the
applicable Appendix. If the Spouse dies before the annuity starting date, no
benefit shall be payable under this Article 4.

(d)  Optional Forms of Benefit . In lieu of the normal form of payment described in
subsection (c), a Participant may elect at any time prior to his annuity starting date to receive
his benefit in one of the following optional forms of payment. Payments made under each optional
form of payment shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the benefit payment amount determined

6 

under
the applicable Appendix. The Participant s election of an optional form of distribution shall be
made in the form and manner and within such timeframes as the Administrator may prescribe and shall
be irrevocable once benefit payments commence.

(1)  Joint and Survivor Annuity : The joint and survivor annuity form
provides monthly payments to the Participant while living and, in the event the
Participant predeceases his or her joint annuitant, monthly payments equal to 100%,
75% or 50% (as elected by the Participant) of the Participant s monthly payments
shall be continued to such joint annuitant for his or her life. Such payments shall
end with the payment due on the first day of the month in which the later of the
death of the Participant or the joint annuitant (as applicable) occurs.

(2)  Life Only Annuity : The Life Only Annuity form provides monthly payments
to the Participant for life, ending with the payment due on the first day of the
month in which the death of the Participant occurs.

(3)  Life Annuity   10 Years Certain : The Life Annuity   10 Years Certain
form provides monthly payments to the Participant while living and, in the event the
Participant dies before receiving 120 monthly payments, such payments will continue
to the Participant s designated beneficiary. Such payments shall end with the
payment due on the first day of the month in which the death of the Participant
occurs or with the 120 th  payment, as applicable.

(e)  Earlier Distribution . Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an amount deferred under
this Plan is required to be included in income under Code Section 409A prior to the date such
amount is actually distributed, a Participant shall receive a distribution, in a lump sum as soon
as practicable after the date the Plan fails to meet the requirements of Code Section 409A, of the
amount required to be included in the Participant s income as a result of such failure.

(f)  Delay in Payment . Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a distribution will violate
the terms of a loan agreement or other similar contract to which the Company or an Affiliate, as
applicable, is a party, and if any such violation will cause material harm to the Company or
Affiliate, the distribution shall be delayed until the first date that a violation will not occur
or the violation will not cause material harm to the Company or an Affiliate.

Section 4.3.   Death Benefit . The Spouse, if any, of a deceased Participant shall be
entitled to a pre-retirement surviving spouse s benefit if the Participant s death occurs before
his or her Annuity Starting Date and after the Participant has become vested in his or her Pension
Plan Supplement Benefit. The amount of the pre-retirement surviving spouse benefit payable to the
Participant s Spouse shall be equal to the amount that would have been payable to the Spouse had
the Participant (i) ceased employment; (ii) commenced a Pension Plan Supplement Benefit at the
Annuity Starting Date having elected a joint and 50% survivor annuity form of benefit payment with
his or her Spouse as contingent annuitant; and (iii) died the next day. Payments shall be made in
the form of a single life annuity for the life of the Spouse and shall commence on the Annuity
Starting Date.

7 

ARTICLE 5.   
  SAVINGS PLAN SUPPLEMENT  

Section 5.1.   Eligibility for and Amount of Benefits . Participants shall be
eligible for a Savings Plan Supplement Account in accordance with the terms of the applicable
Appendix.

Section 5.2.   Investment Election . Amounts credited to a Participant s Savings Supplement Account shall reflect the investment
experience of the Investment Options selected by the Participant. The Participant may make an
initial investment election at the time of enrollment in the Plan. A Participant may also elect to
reallocate his or her Savings Supplement Account, and may elect to allocate any future deferrals,
among the various Investment Options from time to time. Such investment elections shall remain in
effect until changed by the Participant. All investment elections shall become effective as soon
as practicable after receipt of such election, and must be made in the form and manner and within
such time periods as the Administrator may prescribe in order to be effective. In the absence of
an effective election, the Participant s Savings Supplement Account shall be deemed invested in the
default fund specified for the Savings Plan (or any successor plan thereto). Deferrals will be
deemed invested in an Investment Option as of the date on which the deferrals are allocated under
the Plan as described in the Appendices.

On each Valuation Date, the Administrator or its designee shall credit the deemed investment
experience with respect to the selected Investment Options to each Participant s Savings Supplement
Account.

Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company retains the right to allocate actual
amounts hereunder without regard to a Participant s request.

Section 5.3.   Valuation of Share Unit Account . When any amounts are to be allocated to a Share Unit Account (whether in the form of deferrals
or amounts that are deemed transferred from another Investment Option), such amount shall be
converted to whole and fractional Share Units, by dividing the amount to be allocated by the Fair
Market Value of a Share on the effective date of such allocation. If any dividends or other
distributions are paid on Shares while a Participant has Share Units credited to his Account, such
Participant shall be credited with a dividend award equal to the amount of the cash dividend paid
or Fair Market Value of other property distributed on one Share, multiplied by the number of Share
Units credited to his Share Unit Account on the date the dividend is declared. The dividend award
shall be converted into additional Share Units as provided above using the Fair Market Value of a
Share on the date the dividend is paid or distributed. Any other provision of this Plan to the
contrary notwithstanding, if a dividend is declared on Shares in the form of a right or rights to
purchase shares of capital stock of the Company or any entity acquiring the Company, no additional
Share Units shall be credited to the Participant s Share Unit Account with respect to such
dividend, but each Share Unit credited to a Participant s Share Unit Account at the time such
dividend is paid, and each Share Unit thereafter credited to the Participant s Share Unit Account
at a time when such rights are attached to Shares, shall thereafter be valued as of any point in
time on the basis of the aggregate of the then Fair Market Value of one Share plus the then Fair
Market Value of such right or rights then attached to one Share.

8 

In the event of any merger, share exchange, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization,
stock dividend, stock split or other change in corporate structure of the Company affecting Shares,
the Committee may make appropriate equitable adjustments with respect to the Share Units credited
to the Share Unit Account of each Participant, including without limitation, adjusting the date as
of which such units are valued and/or distributed, as the Committee determines is necessary or
desirable to prevent the dilution or enlargement of the benefits intended to be provided under the
Plan.

Section 5.4.   Securities Law Restrictions . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, all elections under this Article by a
Participant who is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act are subject to review by the
Administrator prior to implementation. In accordance with Section 3.5, the Administrator may
restrict additional transactions, rescind transactions, or impose other rules and procedures, to
the extent deemed desirable by the Administrator in order to comply with the Exchange Act,
including, without limitation, application of the review and approval provisions of this Section
5.4 to Participants who are not subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.

Section 5.5.   Accounts are For Record Keeping Purposes Only . The Savings Supplement Accounts and the record keeping procedures described herein serve solely
as a device for determining the amount of benefits accumulated by a Participant under Article 5 of
the Plan, and shall not constitute or imply an obligation on the part of the Company or any
Affiliate to fund such benefits. In any event, the Company or an Affiliate may, in its discretion,
set aside assets equal to part or all of such account balances and invest such assets in Company
stock, life insurance or any other investment deemed appropriate. Any such assets,
including Company stock, shall be and remain the sole property of the employer that set aside such
assets, and a Participant shall have no proprietary rights of any nature whatsoever with respect to
such assets.

Section 5.6.   Payment of Benefits .

(a)  Distribution Election . Subject to the terms of an applicable Appendix, a
Participant shall make a distribution election with respect to his Savings Supplement Account in
such form and manner as the Administrator may prescribe. The election shall specify whether
distributions shall be made in a single lump sum or in annual installments of from two (2) to ten
(10) years. Such election shall be irrevocable. If no valid election is in effect, distributions
shall be made in ten (10) annual installments.

(b)  Time of Distribution. 

(1)  Separation from Service . Upon a Participant s Separation from Service
for any reason, the Participant, or his Beneficiary in the event of his death, shall
be entitled to payment of the vested amount accumulated in such Participant s
Savings Supplement Account.

(2)  Earlier Distribution . Notwithstanding the foregoing, a distribution may
be made prior to the Participant s Separation from Service as follows:

(A) If an amount deferred under this Plan is required to be included in
income under Code Section 409A prior to the date such amount is actually
distributed, a Participant shall receive a distribution, in a lump sum as

9 

soon as practicable after the date the Plan fails to meet the requirements
of Code Section 409A, of the amount required to be included in the
Participant s income as a result of such failure.

(B) If an amount under the Plan is required to be immediately distributed in
a lump sum under a domestic relations order within the meaning of Code
Section 414(p)(1)(B), it may be distributed according to the terms of such
order,  provided  the Participant holds the Administrator harmless with
respect to such distribution. The Plan shall not distribute amounts
required to be distributed under a domestic relations order other than in
the limited circumstance specifically stated herein.

(c)  Manner of Distribution . The Participant s Savings Supplement Account shall be paid in cash in the following manner:

(1)  Lump Sum . If payment is to be made in a lump sum,

(A) for those Participants whose Separation from Service occurs from January
1 through June 30 of a year, payment shall be made in the first calendar
quarter of the following year, and

(B) for those Participants whose Separation from Service occurs from July 1
through December 31 of a year, payment shall be made in the third calendar
quarter of the following year.

The lump sum payment shall equal the vested balance of the Participant s Savings
Supplement Account as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the distribution
date.

(2)  Installments . If payment is to be made in annual installments, the
first annual payment shall be made:

(A) for those Participants whose Separation from Service occurs from January
1 through June 30 of a year, in the first calendar quarter of the following
year, and

(B) for those Participants whose Separation from Service occurs during the
period from July 1 through December 31 of a year, in the third calendar
quarter of the following year.

The amount of the first annual payment shall equal the value of 1/10 th 
(or 1/9 th , 1/8 th , 1/7 th , etc. depending on the
number of installments elected) of the vested balance of the Participant s Savings
Supplement Account as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the distribution
date. All subsequent annual payments shall be made in the first calendar quarter of
each subsequent calendar year, and shall be equal the value of 1/9 th  (or
1/8 th , 1/7 th , 1/6 th , etc. depending on the number
of installments elected) of the vested balance of the Participant s Savings
Supplement Account as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the

10 

distribution
date. The final annual installment payment shall equal the then remaining vested
balance of such Savings Supplement Account as of the Valuation Date preceding such
final payment date.

(3)  Delay in Payment . Notwithstanding the foregoing, a distribution may be
delayed beyond the date it would have otherwise been paid under paragraph (1) or (2)
in the following circumstances:

(A) If the distribution will violate the terms of a loan agreement or other
similar contract to which the Company or an Affiliate, as applicable, is a
party, and if any such violation will cause material harm to the Company or
Affiliate, the distribution shall be delayed until the first date that a
violation will not occur or the violation will not cause material harm to
the Company or an Affiliate.

(B) If the distribution will violate the terms of Section 16(b) of the
Exchange Act or other Federal securities laws, or any other applicable law,
then the distribution shall be delayed until the earliest date on which
making the distribution will not violate such law.

Section 5.7.   Death Benefit .

(a)  Distribution . In the event of the Participant s death prior to receiving all
payments due hereunder, the vested balance of the Participant s Savings Supplement Account shall be
paid to the Participant s Beneficiary in a cash lump sum as soon as practicable after the
Participant s death.

(b)  Designation of Beneficiary . Each Participant may designate a beneficiary in such
form and manner and within such time periods as the Administrator may prescribe. A Participant can
change his beneficiary designation at any time,  provided  that each beneficiary designation shall
revoke the most recent designation, and the last designation received by the Administrator (or its
delegatee) while the Participant was alive shall be given effect. If a Participant designates a
beneficiary without providing in the designation that the beneficiary must be living at the time of
each distribution, the designation shall vest in the beneficiary all of the distribution whether
payable before or after the beneficiary s death, and any distributions remaining upon the
beneficiary s death shall be made to the beneficiary s estate. In the event there is no valid
beneficiary designation in effect at the time of the Participant s death, in the event the
Participant s designated beneficiary does not survive the Participant, or in the event that the
beneficiary designation provides that the Beneficiary must be living at the time of each
distribution and such designated Beneficiary does not survive to a distribution date, the
Participant s estate will be deemed the Beneficiary and will be entitled to receive payment. If a
Participant designates his spouse as a beneficiary, such beneficiary designation automatically
shall become null and void on the date of the Participant s divorce or legal separation from such
spouse,  provided  the Administrator has notice of such divorce or legal separation prior to payment.

11 

Section 5.8.   Distribution in Event of Unforeseeable Emergency . If requested by a Participant while in the employ of the Company or an Affiliate and if the
Administrator determines that an Unforeseeable Emergency has occurred, all or part of the
Participant s vested Account may be paid out to the Participant in a cash lump sum. The amount to
be distributed to the Participant shall only be such amount as is needed to alleviate the
Participant s Unforeseeable Emergency, including any Federal, state or local income taxes or
penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the distribution, after taking into account the
extent to which the emergency is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation from
insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participant s assets (to the extent such liquidation
would not itself cause a severe financial hardship), or by cessation of deferrals under the Plan.

ARTICLE 6.   
  NON-ALIENATION OF PAYMENTS  

Except as specifically provided herein, benefits payable under the Plan shall not be subject
in any manner to alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment or
encumbrance of any kind. Any attempt to alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise
encumber any such benefit payment, whether currently or thereafter payable, shall not be recognized
by the Administrator or the Company. Any benefit payment due hereunder shall not in any manner be
liable for or subject to the debts or liabilities of any Participant or other person entitled
thereto. If any such person shall attempt to alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge or encumber
any benefit payments to be made to that person under the Plan or any part thereof, or if by reason
of such person s bankruptcy or other event happening at any time, such payments would devolve upon
anyone else or would not be enjoyed by such person, then the Administrator, in its discretion, may
terminate such person s interest in any such benefit payment, and hold or apply it to or for the
benefit of that person, the spouse, children or other dependents thereof, or any of them, in such
manner as the Administrator deems proper.

ARTICLE 7.   
  LIMITATION OF RIGHTS  

Section 7.1.   No Right to Employment . Participation in this Plan, or any
modifications thereof, or the payments of any benefits hereunder, shall not be construed as giving
to any person any right to be retained in the service of the Company or any Affiliate, limiting in
any way the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate such person s employment at any
time, evidencing any agreement or understanding that the Company or any Affiliate will employ such
person in any particular position or at any particular rate of compensation or guaranteeing such
person any right to receive any other form or amount of remuneration from the Company or any
Affiliate.

Section 7.2.   No Right to Benefits .

(a)  Unsecured Claim . The right of a Participant, his spouse or his Beneficiary to
receive a distribution hereunder shall be an unsecured claim, and neither the Participant, his
spouse nor any Beneficiary shall have any rights in or against any amount credited to his Savings
Supplement Account, any accrued benefit under Article 4 or any other specific assets of the Company
or an Affiliate. The right of a Participant or Beneficiary to the payment of benefits under this
Plan shall not be assigned, encumbered, or transferred, except as permitted under

12 

Section 5.7. The
rights of a Participant hereunder are exercisable during the Participant s lifetime only by him or
his guardian or legal representative.

(b)  Contractual Obligation . The Company or an Affiliate may authorize the creation of
a trust or other arrangements to assist it in meeting the obligations created under the Plan.
However, any liability to any person with respect to the Plan shall be based solely upon any
contractual obligations that may be created pursuant to the Plan. No obligation of the Company or
an Affiliate shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge of, or other encumbrance on, any property
of the Company or any Affiliate. Nothing contained in this Plan and no action taken pursuant to
its terms shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary
relationship between the Company or an Affiliate and any Participant or Beneficiary, or any
other person.

ARTICLE 8.   
  AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION  

Section 8.1.   Amendment . The Committee may at any time amend the Plan, including
but not limited to modifying the terms and conditions applicable to (or otherwise eliminating)
accruals or deferrals to be made on or after the amendment date;  provided, however,  that no
amendment may reduce or eliminate any vested accrued benefit under Article 4 or the Savings
Supplement Account balance accrued under Article 5 to the date of such amendment (except as benefit
may be reduced as a result of the amount payable under the Pension Plan or except as such Savings
Supplement Account balance may be reduced as a result of investment losses allocable to such
account) without a Participant s consent except as otherwise specifically provided herein; and
 provided further  that any amendment that expands the class of employees eligible for participation
under the Plan or that materially increases the amount of benefits payable hereunder must be
approved by the Board. In addition, the Administrator may at any time amend the Plan to make
administrative or ministerial changes or changes necessary to comply with applicable law.

Section 8.2.   Termination . The Committee may terminate the Plan in accordance with
the following provisions. Upon termination of the Plan, any deferral elections then in effect
shall be cancelled and any accruals under Article 4 shall cease as if the termination date of the
Plan were the annuity starting date.

(1) The Committee may terminate the Plan within twelve (12) months
of a corporate dissolution taxed under Code Section 331, or with the
approval of a bankruptcy court pursuant to 11 U.S.C.  503(b)(1)(A),
 provided  that the amounts accrued under the Plan but not yet paid
are distributed to the Participants, spouses or Beneficiaries, as
applicable, in a single sum payment, regardless of any distribution
election then in effect, in the later of: (A) the calendar year in
which the Plan termination occurs or (B) the first calendar year in
which payment is administratively practicable.

(2) The Committee may terminate the Plan at any time during the
period that begins thirty (30) days prior and ends twelve (12)

13 

months following a Change of Control,  provided  that all
substantially similar arrangements (within the meaning of Code
Section 409A) sponsored by the Company are terminated, so that all
participants under similar arrangements are required to receive all
amounts of compensation deferred under the terminated arrangements
within twelve (12) months of the date of termination of the
arrangements.

(3) The Committee may terminate the Plan at any other time. In such
event, all amounts accrued under the Plan but not yet paid
will be distributed to all Participants, spouses or Beneficiaries,
as applicable, in a single sum payment mo earlier than twelve (12)
months (and no later than twenty-four (24) months) after the date of
termination, regardless of any distribution election then in effect.
This provision shall not be effective unless all other plans
required to be aggregated with this Plan under Code Section 409A are
also terminated. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment that
would otherwise be paid during the twelve (12)-month period
beginning on the Plan termination date pursuant to the terms of the
Plan shall be paid in accordance with such terms. In addition, the
Company or any Affiliate shall be prohibited from adopting a similar
arrangement within five (5) years following the date of the Plan s
termination, unless any individual who was a Participant under this
Plan is excluded from participating thereunder for such five (5)
year period.

Section 8.4.   Entitlement to Benefits . It is understood that an individual s entitlement to Pension Plan Supplement Benefits may be
automatically reduced as the result of an increase in his Pension Plan Benefits. Nothing herein
shall be construed in any way to limit the right of the Company to amend or modify the Pension Plan
or Savings Plan.

ARTICLE 9.   
  SPECIAL RULES APPLICABLE IN THE EVENT OF A   
  CHANGE OF CONTROL OF THE COMPANY  

Section 9.1.   Acceleration of Payments . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, within thirty (30) days after a Change of
Control, each Participant (or any spouse or Beneficiary thereof entitled to receive payments
hereunder), including Participants (or spouses or Beneficiaries) receiving installment or annuity
payments under the Plan, shall be entitled to receive a lump sum payment in cash of all amounts
accumulated in such Participant s Savings Supplement Account and the single sum Actuarial
Equivalent value of the Participant s accrued Pension Plan Supplement Benefits. Such payment shall
be made as soon as practicable following the Change of Control.

In determining the amount accumulated in a Participant s Share Unit Account, each Share Unit
shall have a value equal to the higher of (a) the highest reported sales price, regular way, of a
share of the Company s common stock on the Composite Tape for New York

14 

Stock Exchange Listed Stocks
(the  Composite Tape ) during the sixty-day period prior to the date of the Change of Control of
the Company and (b) if the Change of Control of the Company is the result of a transaction or
series of transactions described in Section 9.2(a), the highest price per Share of the Company paid
in such transaction or series of transactions.

Section 9.2.   Definition of a Change of Control . A Change of Control means any of the following events,  provided  that each such event would
constitute a change of control within the meaning of Code Section 409A:

(a) The acquisition, other than from the Company, by any individual, entity or group of
beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule l3d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act),
including in connection with a merger, consolidation or reorganization, of more than either:

(1) Fifty percent (50%) of the then outstanding shares of common
stock of the Company (the  Outstanding Company Common Stock ) or

(2) Thirty-five (35%) of the combined voting power of the then
outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote
generally in the election of directors (the  Company Voting
Securities ),

provided, however , that any acquisition by (x) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or any
employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its
subsidiaries or (y) any corporation with respect to which, following such acquisition, more than
60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the
combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to
vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by
all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners,
respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities immediately
prior to such acquisition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership, immediately
prior to such acquisition, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities,
as the case may be, shall not constitute a Change in Control of the Company; or

(b) Individuals who, as of January 1, 2005, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease
for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board during any 12-month period,  provided 
that any individual becoming a director subsequent to January 1, 2005, whose election or nomination
for election by the Company s shareholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the
directors then comprising the Incumbent Board, shall be considered as though such individual were a
member of the Incumbent Board; or

(c) A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or sale or other disposition of all
or substantially all of the assets of the Company other than to a corporation with respect to
which, following such sale or disposition, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding
shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities
entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then owned beneficially, directly or
indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial

15 

owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities
immediately prior to such sale or disposition in substantially the same proportion as their
ownership of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Company Voting Securities, as the case may
be, immediately prior to such sale or disposition. For purposes hereof,  a sale or
other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company  will not be deemed
to have occurred if the sale involves assets having a total gross fair market value of less than
forty percent (40%) of the total gross fair market value of all assets of the Company immediately
prior to the acquisition. For this purpose,  gross fair market value  means the value of the
assets without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets.

For purposes of this Section 9.2, persons will not be considered to be acting as a  group 
solely because they purchase or own stock of the Company at the same time, or as a result of the
same public offering. However, persons will be considered to be acting as a  group  if they are
owners of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock,
or similar business transaction with the Company. If a person, including an entity, owns stock in
the Company and any other corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or
acquisition of stock, or similar transaction, such shareholder is considered to be acting as a
group with other shareholders in such corporation only with respect to the ownership in that
corporation prior to the transaction giving rise to the change and not with respect to the
ownership interest in the Company.

Section 9.3.   Maximum Payment Limitations .

(a)  Limit on Payments . Except as provided in subsection (b) below, if any portion of
the payments or benefits described in this Plan or under any other agreement with or plan of the
Company or a subsidiary (in the aggregate,  Total Payments ), would constitute an  excess parachute
payment , then the Total Payments to be made to the Participant shall be reduced such that the
value of the aggregate Total Payments that the Participant is entitled to receive shall be one
dollar ($1) less than the maximum amount which the Participant may receive without becoming subject
to the tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or which the Company may pay without loss of
deduction under Section 280G(a) of the Code;  provided  that this Section shall not apply in the case
of a Participant who has in effect a valid employment contract providing that the Total Payments to
the Participant shall be determined without regard to the maximum amount allowable under Section
280G of the Code. The terms  excess parachute payment  and  parachute payment  shall have the
meanings assigned to them in Section 280G of the Code, and such  parachute payments  shall be
valued as provided therein. Present value shall be calculated in accordance with Section
280G(d)(4) of the Code. Within forty (40) days following delivery of notice by the Company to the
Participant of its belief that there is a payment or benefit due the Participant which will result
in an excess parachute payment, the Participant and the Company, at the Company s expense, shall
obtain the opinion (which need not be unqualified) of nationally recognized tax counsel selected by
the Company s independent auditors and acceptable to the Participant in his sole discretion (which
may be regular outside counsel to the Company), which opinion sets forth (A) the amount of the Base
Period Income, (B) the amount and present value of Total Payments and (C) the amount and present
value of any excess parachute payments determined without regard to the limitations of this
Section. As used in this Section, the term  Base Period Income  means an amount equal to the
Participant s  annualized includible compensation for the base period  as defined in Section
280G(d)(1) of the

16 

Code. For purposes of such opinion, the value of any noncash benefits or any
deferred payment or benefit shall be determined by the Company s independent auditors in accordance
with the
principles of Sections 280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code, which determination shall be evidenced
in a certificate of such auditors addressed to the Company and the Participant. Such opinion shall
be addressed to the Company and the Participant and shall be binding upon the Company and the
Participant. If such opinion determines that there would be an excess parachute payment, the
payments hereunder that are includible in Total Payments or any other payment or benefit determined
by such counsel to be includible in Total Payments shall be reduced or eliminated as specified by
the Participant in writing delivered to the Company within thirty days of his receipt of such
opinion or, if the Participant fails to so notify the Company, then as the Company shall reasonably
determine, so that under the bases of calculations set forth in such opinion there will be no
excess parachute payment. If such legal counsel so requests in connection with the opinion
required by this Section, the Participant and the Company shall obtain, at the Company s expense,
and the legal counsel may rely on in providing the opinion, the advice of a firm of recognized
executive compensation consultants as to the reasonableness of any item of compensation to be
received by the Participant. If the provisions of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code are repealed
without succession, then this Section shall be of no further force or effect.

(b)  Employment Contract Governs . The provisions of subsection (a) above shall not
apply to a Participant whose employment is governed by an employment contract that provides for
Total Payments in excess of the limitation described in subsection (a) above.

ARTICLE 10.   
  ERISA PROVISIONS  

Section 10.1.   Claims Procedures .

(a)  Initial Claim . If a Participant, spouse or Beneficiary (the  claimant ) believes
that he is entitled to a benefit under the Plan that is not provided, the claimant or his legal
representative shall file a written claim for such benefit with the Committee within one hundred
and eighty (180) days from the date the claimant receives the distribution giving rise to the claim
or, if earlier, knows of the facts giving rise to the claim. The Administrator shall review the
claim within ninety (90) days following the date of receipt of the claim;  provided  that the
Administrator may determine that an additional ninety (90)-day extension is necessary due to
circumstances beyond the Administrator s control, in which event the Administrator shall notify the
claimant prior to the end of the initial period that an extension is needed, the reason therefor
and the date by which the Administrator expects to render a decision. If the claimant s claim is
denied in whole or part, the Administrator shall provide written notice to the claimant of such
denial. The written notice shall include the specific reason(s) for the denial; reference to
specific Plan provisions upon which the denial is based; a description of any additional material
or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such
material or information is necessary; and a description of the Plan s review procedures (as set
forth in subsection (b)) and the time limits applicable to such procedures, including a statement
of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse
determination upon review. If the claimant does not receive a written decision within the time
period(s) described above, the claim shall be deemed denied on the last day of such period(s).

17 

(b)  Request for Appeal . The claimant has the right to appeal the Administrator s
decision by filing a written appeal to the Committee within sixty (60) days after claimant s
receipt of the decision or deemed denial. The claimant will have the opportunity, upon request and
free of charge, to have reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records and other
information relevant to the claimant s appeal. The claimant may submit written comments,
documents, records and other information relating to his claim with the appeal. The Committee will
review all comments, documents, records and other information submitted by the claimant relating to
the claim, regardless of whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial claim
determination. The Committee shall make a determination on the appeal within sixty (60) days after
receiving the claimant s written appeal;  provided  that the Committee may determine that an
additional sixty (60)-day extension is necessary due to circumstances beyond the Committee s
control, in which event the Committee shall notify the claimant prior to the end of the initial
period that an extension is needed, the reason therefor and the date by which the Committee expects
to render a decision. If the claimant s appeal is denied in whole or part, the Committee shall
provide written notice to the claimant of such denial. The written notice shall include the
specific reason(s) for the denial; reference to specific Plan provisions upon which the denial is
based; a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge,
reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records, and other information relevant to the
claimant s claim; and a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under section
502(a) of ERISA. If the claimant does not receive a written decision within the time period(s)
described above, the appeal shall be deemed denied on the last day of such period(s).

Section 10.2.   ERISA Fiduciary . For purposes of ERISA, the Committee shall be considered the named fiduciary under the Plan and
the plan administrator.

ARTICLE 11.   
  TAX WITHHOLDING  

The Company shall have the right to deduct from any deferral or payment made hereunder, or from any
other amount due a Participant, the amount of cash sufficient to satisfy the Company s or
Affiliate s foreign, federal, state or local income tax withholding obligations with respect to
such deferral (or vesting thereof) or payment. In addition, if prior to the date of distribution
of any amount hereunder, the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax imposed under Code
Sections 3101, 3121(a) and 3121(v)(2), where applicable, becomes due, the Participant s benefit
under Article 4 or Savings Supplement Account balance under Article 5 shall be reduced by the
amount needed to pay the Participant s portion of such tax.

ARTICLE 12.   
  OFFSET  

The Company shall have the right to offset from the benefits payable hereunder any amount that
the Participant owes to the Company or any Affiliate without the consent of the Participant (or his
spouse or Beneficiary, in the event of the Participant s death).

18 

ARTICLE 13.   
  SUCCESSORS  

All obligations of the Company under the Plan shall be binding on any successor to the
Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase,
merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of
the Company.

ARTICLE 14.   
  DISPUTE RESOLUTION  

Section 14.1.   Governing Law . This Plan is intended to be a plan of deferred compensation maintained for a select group of
management or highly compensated employees as that term is used in ERISA, and shall be interpreted
so as to comply with the applicable requirements thereof. In all other respects, the Plan is to be
construed and its validity determined according to the laws of the State of Wisconsin to the extent
such laws are not preempted by federal law.

Section 14.2.   Limitation on Actions . Any action or other legal proceeding under ERISA with respect to the Plan may be brought only
after the claims and appeals procedures of Article 10 are exhausted and only within the period
ending on the earlier of (i) one year after the date the claimant receives notice of a denial or
deemed denial upon appeal under Section 10.1(b), or (ii) the expiration of the applicable statute
of limitations period under applicable federal law. Any action or other legal proceeding not
adjudicated under ERISA must be arbitrated in accordance with the provisions of Section 14.3.

Section 14.3.   Arbitration .

(a)  Application . Notwithstanding any employee agreement in effect between a
Participant and the Company or any subsidiary employer, if a Participant, spouse or beneficiary
brings a claim that relates to benefits under this Plan that is not covered under ERISA, and
regardless of the basis of the claim (including but not limited to, actions under Title VII,
wrongful discharge, breach of employment agreement, etc.), such claim shall be settled by final
binding arbitration in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association ( AAA )
and judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having
jurisdiction thereof.

(b)  Initiation of Action . Arbitration must be initiated by serving or mailing a
written notice of the complaint to the other party. Normally, such written notice should be
provided to the other party within one year (365 days) after the day the complaining party first
knew or should have known of the events giving rise to the complaint. However, this time frame may
be extended if the applicable statute of limitation provides for a longer period of time. If the
complaint is not properly submitted within the appropriate time frame, all rights and claims that
the complaining party has or may have against the other party shall be waived and void. Any
notice sent to the Company shall be delivered to:

Office of General Counsel 
Johnson Controls, Inc. 
5757 North Green Bay Avenue 
P.O. Box 591 
Milwaukee, WI 53201-0591

19 

The notice must identify and describe the nature of all complaints asserted and the facts upon
which such complaints are based. Notice will be deemed given according to the date of any postmark
or the date of time of any personal delivery.

(c)  Compliance with Personnel Policies . Before proceeding to arbitration on a
complaint, the Participant, spouse or beneficiary must initiate and participate in any complaint
resolution procedure identified in the Company s or subsidiary s personnel policies. If the
claimant has not initiated the complaint resolution procedure before initiating arbitration on a
complaint, the initiation of the arbitration shall be deemed to begin the complaint resolution
procedure. No arbitration hearing shall be held on a complaint until any applicable Company or
subsidiary complaint resolution procedure has been completed.

(d)  Rules of Arbitration . All arbitration will be conducted by a single arbitrator
according to the Employment Dispute Arbitration Rules of the AAA. The arbitrator will have
authority to award any remedy or relief that a court of competent jurisdiction could order or grant
including, without limitation, specific performance of any obligation created under policy, the
awarding of punitive damages, the issuance of any injunction, costs and attorney s fees to the
extent permitted by law, or the imposition of sanctions for abuse of the arbitration process. The
arbitrator s award must be rendered in a writing that sets forth the essential findings and
conclusions on which the arbitrator s award is based.

(e)  Representation and Costs . Each party may be represented in the arbitration by an
attorney or other representative selected by the party. The Company or subsidiary shall be
responsible for its own costs, the AAA filing fee and all other fees, costs and expenses of the
arbitrator and AAA for administering the arbitration. The claimant shall be responsible for
his/her attorney s or representative s fees, if any. However, if any party prevails on a statutory
claim which allows the prevailing party costs and/or attorneys  fees, the arbitrator may award
costs and reasonable attorneys  fees as provided by such statute.

(f)  Discovery; Location; Rules of Evidence . Discovery will be allowed to the same
extent afforded under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Arbitration will be held at a location
selected by the Company. AAA rules notwithstanding, the admissibility of evidence offered at the
arbitration shall be determined by the arbitrator who shall be the judge of its materiality and
relevance. Legal rules of evidence will not be controlling, and the standard for admissibility of
evidence will generally be whether it is the type of information that responsible people rely upon
in making important decisions.

(g)  Confidentiality . The existence, content or results of any arbitration may not be
disclosed by a party or arbitrator without the prior written consent of both parties. Witnesses
who are not a party to the arbitration shall be excluded from the hearing except to testify.

20 

APPENDIX A 
OFFICERS

1. 
       
      Eligibility . This Appendix A covers officer employees of the Company who are
participants in the Pension Plan and/or the Savings Plan, and whose benefits under the Pension
Plan and/or Savings Plan are limited as described in Section 1.1. 

2. 
       
      Participation Date . An officer employee shall become a Participant on the date he or
she is elected as an officer of the Company by the Company s Board of Directors. 

3. 
       
      Pension Plan Supplement . 

(a)  Eligibility . Any Participant who retires under the Pension Plan on or
after January 1, 1980, or such Participant s Spouse who is entitled to a benefit under the
Pension Plan, shall be entitled to a benefit payable hereunder in accordance with this
Section 3.

(b)  Amount of Pension Plan Supplement . The amount of monthly benefits to which an eligible individual is entitled shall equal
the excess, if any, of:

(1) The amount of such Participant s, surviving Spouse s or other beneficiaries 
Pension Plan Benefits computed under the provisions of the Pension Plan (assuming
the annuity starting date under this Plan is the annuity starting date under the
Pension Plan), without regard to the limitations imposed by reason of Section 415 of
the Code or the limit on considered compensation under Section 401(a)(17) of the
Code, and on the assumption that all amounts of cash compensation which the
Participant elected to defer under the Annual Incentive Plan and/or under Article 5
of this Plan were paid as  Compensation  as defined in the Pension Plan (to the
extent not already included in such  Compensation  under the applicable Pension Plan
definition); over

(2) The amount of Pension Plan Benefits payable to such Participant, surviving
Spouse or other beneficiary for each month under the Pension Plan, as computed under
the provisions of the Pension Plan (assuming the annuity starting date under this
Plan is the annuity starting date under the Pension Plan) and subject to the above
mentioned limitations.

4. 
       
      Savings Plan Supplement . 

(a)  Before-Tax Contributions Allocation . For each calendar year, each
Participant may elect that, in the event the Participant s ability to make Before-Tax
Matched Contributions under the Savings Plan is limited by reason of Sections 401(k), 402(g)
or 415 of the Code and/or the limit on considered compensation under Section 401(a)(17) of
the Code, then the difference between the amount of Before-Tax Matched
Contributions that the Participant could have made under the Savings Plan for any
calendar year (assuming the Participant elected the maximum amount of Before-Tax Matched
Contributions for the calendar year and did not change his election during the calendar
year) and the amount that would have been contributed as Before-Tax Matched

21 

Contributions
but for such limits shall be credited, as of December 31 of such year, to the Participant s
Savings Supplement Account. A Participant s election shall be made prior to the first day
of the calendar year to which it relates, and shall be irrevocable as of the first day of
such year.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the first calendar year in which an individual
becomes a Participant, the Participant shall be automatically deemed to have elected to
defer six percent (6%) of his or her compensation that is paid after the date he or she
becomes a Participant and that exceeds the Code Section 401(a)(17) limit for such year;
 provided  that the foregoing shall not apply to any individual who first becomes a
Participant on or after November 1.

A Participant s election (or deemed election in the initial year of participation)
shall be effective only for the calendar year to which the election relates, and shall not
carry over from year to year. An election (or deemed election) under this subsection (a)
shall constitute an election by the Participant to reduce the Participant s salary by the
amount determined under this subsection. The Participant s election shall be made in the
form and manner and within such timeframes as the Administrator may prescribe.

(b)  Matching Contributions Allocation . A Participant s Savings Supplement
Account shall also be credited as of each December 31 with an amount equal to the difference
between the amount of Matching Contributions actually credited to the Participant s Savings
Plan account for the year and the amount of Matching Contributions that would have been so
credited if the amount determined under subsection (a) had actually been contributed to the
Savings Plan (determined without regard to the limitations imposed by Sections 401(m) and
415 of the Code), but only with respect to the period the Participant is covered by this
Plan;  provided  the Participant has met the eligibility requirements to receive a Matching
Contribution under the Savings Plan for such year. The Matching Contributions credited
hereunder shall be subject to the same vesting requirements as are imposed on matching
contributions under the Savings Plan, except that service with York International
Corporation prior to January 1, 2006 will not count as vesting service for purposes of this
Plan.

(c)  Retirement Income Allocation . A Participant s Savings Supplement Account
also shall be credited as of each December 31 with an amount equal to the difference between
the amount of Retirement Income Contributions actually credited to the Participant s Savings
Plan account for the year and the amount of Retirement Income Contributions that would have
been so credited if the limit on considered compensation under Section 401(a)(17) of the
Code did not apply;  provided  the Participant has met the eligibility requirements to receive
a Retirement Income Contribution under the Savings Plan for such year. The Retirement
Income Contributions credited hereunder shall be subject to the same vesting requirements as
are imposed on Retirement Income
Contributions under the Savings Plan, except that service with York International
Corporation prior to January 1, 2006 will not count as vesting service for purposes of this
Plan.

22 

(d)  Modification of Compensation . Notwithstanding the foregoing, when
determining a Participant s compensation for purposes of subsections (a), (b) and (c), the
only bonus that may be included is the amount a Participant receives (or would receive but
for a deferral election) under the Annual Incentive Plan for the calendar year.

(e)  Cancellation of Deferral Elections . If a Participant receives a distribution due to an Unforeseeable Emergency and requests
cancellation of his or her deferral election under subsection (a), or if the Administrator
determines that such deferral election must be cancelled in order for the Participant to
receive a distribution due to an Unforeseeable Emergency, then the Participant s deferral
election shall be cancelled. Likewise, if required for the Participant to receive a
hardship distribution under the Savings Plan, or any other 401(k) plan maintained by the
Company or an Affiliate, the Participant s deferral election(s) shall be cancelled. A
Participant whose deferral election(s) are cancelled pursuant to this subsection (e) may
make a new deferral election under subsection (a) with respect to future calendar years,
unless otherwise prohibited by the Administrator.

(f)  Distribution Election . A Participant s Savings Supplement Account shall be paid
in accordance with the distribution election filed under Appendix B if the Participant had
previously been eligible for an allocation under Appendix B. If a Participant was not
previously participating under Appendix B when he or she first becomes eligible hereunder,
then the amounts deferred hereunder in the first year of participation (and earnings
thereon) shall be paid in a lump sum, and all future amounts shall be paid in accordance
with the Participant s distribution election, which must be submitted by December 31 of the
first year of participation, or if no election is so filed, in accordance with the Plan s
default rules.

23 

APPENDIX B 
HIGHLY COMPENSATED EMPLOYEES (RIC)

1. 
       
      Eligibility . This Appendix B covers employees of the Company, Johnson Controls
Interiors, LLC (on and after January 1, 2006) and York International Corporation who
participate in the Savings Plan, and whose Retirement Income Contribution under such plan is
limited by reason of the application of Code Section 401(a)(17). 

2. 
       
      Participation . An eligible employee shall become a Participant on the date the
Participant s compensation first exceeds the Code Section 401(a)(17) limit. 

3. 
       
      Retirement Income Allocation . A Participant s Savings Supplement Account shall be
credited as of each December 31 with an amount equal to the difference between the amount of
Retirement Income Contributions actually credited to the Participant s Savings Plan account
for the year and the amount of Retirement Income Contributions that would have been so
credited if the limit on considered compensation under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code did not
apply;  provided  the Participant has met the eligibility requirements to receive a Retirement
Income Contribution under the Savings Plan for such year. The Retirement Income Contributions
credited hereunder shall be subject to the same vesting requirements as are imposed on
Retirement Income Contributions under the Savings Plan, except that service with York
International Corporation prior to January 1, 2006 will not count as vesting service for
purposes of this Plan. 

4. 
       
      Modification of Compensation . Notwithstanding the foregoing, when determining a
Participant s compensation for purposes of Section 2, the only bonus that may be included is
the amount a Participant receives (or would receive but for a deferral election) under the
Annual Incentive Plan for the calendar year. 

5. 
       
      Special Distribution Rules . Amounts credited under this Appendix B (plus earnings
thereon) in the initial year of participation and the immediately following calendar year
shall be paid in a lump sum. For all amounts credited thereafter, payment shall be made in
accordance with the Participant s distribution election, which must be submitted by December
31 of the second year of participation, or if no election is so filed, in accordance with the
Plan s default rules. 

24 

APPENDIX C 
HIGHLY COMPENSATED EMPLOYEES (PENSION)

1. 
       
      Eligibility . This Appendix C covers those employees of the Company or Johnson
Controls Interiors, LLC (on and after January 1, 2006), who are participants in the Pension
Plan, and whose benefits under the Pension Plan are limited as described in Section 1.1, other
than employees covered by Appendix A. 

2. 
       
      Vesting . A Participant shall be entitled to benefits under this Appendix only if the
Participant retires or otherwise terminates employment with the Company and its Affiliates on
or after the Participant s attainment of age fifty-five (55) and on or after the date on which
the Participant has completed ten (10) years of service. For purposes of this Plan, a
Participant shall be credited with years of service equal to the Participant s years of
Vesting Service credited under the Pension Plan,  provided  that years of service with York
International Corporation (or any affiliate thereof) prior to January 1, 2006 shall not be
counted as years of service hereunder. In the event that a Participant s employment is
terminated prior to satisfying the vesting requirements of this paragraph, no benefit shall be
payable from this Appendix. 

3. 
       
      Supplemental Retirement Benefit . A Participant who retires under the Pension Plan on
or after January 1, 2005 (or with respect to an employee of Johnson Controls Interiors, LLC,
on or after January 1, 2006), or such Participant s Spouse or other beneficiary, shall be
entitled to a benefit payable hereunder equal to the excess, if any, of: 

(a) The amount of Participant s or surviving Spouse s or other beneficiaries  Pension
Plan Benefits under the provisions of the Pension Plan, without regard to the limitations
imposed by reason of the limit on considered compensation under Section 401(a)(17) of the
Code, and on the assumption that all amounts that the Participant elected to defer under the
under the Annual Incentive Plan were paid as  compensation  as defined in the Pension Plan
(to the extent not already included in such  compensation  under the Pension Plan
definition); over

(b) The amount of Pension Plan Benefits actually payable to such Participant, surviving
Spouse or other beneficiary for each month under the Pension Plan, as computed under the
provisions of the Pension Plan and subject to the above mentioned limitations.

25 

APPENDIX D 
MERGED PLANS

PERT Equalization Benefit Plan 

Effective January 1, 2006, employees of Johnson Controls Interiors, LLC who were previously
eligible to participate in the PERT Equalization Benefit Plan, became eligible for the Johnson
Controls Pension and Savings Plans. Accordingly, effective as of January 1, 2006, the PERT
Equalization Plan was merged with and into this Plan, with the effect that the account balances
under the PERT Equalization Plan were transferred to this Plan. Such account balances will be
subject to all of the same terms and conditions of the Plan as apply to the Savings Supplemental
Accounts. PERT transferred account balances vest in accordance with the provisions of Appendix C
(i.e., upon attainment of age 55 and completion of ten years of service while an employee),
provided that the account balance of a Participant who entered the PERT Equalization Plan on
January 1, 1999, shall vest in accordance with Section 4.2 of such plan.

During 2005, the PERT Equalization Benefit Plan was operated in good faith compliance with Code
Section 409A. The provisions of this Plan that apply to the Savings Supplemental Accounts
effective as of January 1, 2005 are deemed to apply to the PERT Equalization Plan effective as of
the same date, and the PERT Equalization Plan is amended with respect to the 2005 calendar year to
incorporate such provisions.

JCI Pension Restoration Plan 

Effective January 1, 2006, the Johnson Controls, Inc. Pension Restoration Plan was merged with and
into this Plan, such that the benefits accrued under the Pension Restoration Plan as of December
31, 2005, will be accounted for and subject to the terms of this Plan effective January 1, 2006.
Such accrued benefits will be subject to all of the same terms and conditions of the Plan as apply
to the Pension Plan Supplement Benefits, but the amount of the benefits payable will be determined
in accordance with Appendix C.

During 2005, the JCI Pension Restoration Plan was operated in good faith compliance with Code
Section 409A. The provisions of this Plan that apply to the Pension Plan Supplement benefits
effective as of January 1, 2005 are deemed to apply to the JCI Pension Restoration Plan effective
as of the same date, and the JCI Pension Restoration Plan is amended with respect to the 2005
calendar year to incorporate such provisions.

26 

APPENDIX E 
YORK PENSION PLAN

1. 
       
      Eligibility . This Appendix E covers those employees of York International
Corporation (on and after January 1, 2006), who are participants in the York International
Corporation Pension Plan Number One for York Salaried Employees, and who are eligible to
participate in the JCI Executive Deferred Compensation Plan. For purposes of determining the
time and form of distribution of the benefits provided under this Appendix E and for all other
purposes of the Plan document (excluding the other Appendices), the York International
Corporation Pension Plan Number One for York Salaried Employees shall be considered the
 Pension Plan.  

2. 
       
      Vesting . A Participant shall be entitled to benefits under this Appendix only if the
Participant retires or otherwise terminates employment with the Company and its Affiliates on
or after the Participant s attainment of age fifty-five (55) and on or after the date on which
the Participant has completed ten (10) years of service. For purposes of this Plan, a
Participant shall be credited with years of service equal to the Participant s years of
Vesting Service credited under the Pension Plan, provided that years of service with York
International Corporation (or any affiliate thereof) prior to January 1, 2006 shall not be
counted as years of service hereunder. In the event that a Participant s employment is
terminated prior to satisfying the vesting requirements of this paragraph, no benefit shall be
payable from this Appendix. 

3. 
       
      Supplemental Retirement Benefit . A Participant who retires under the Pension Plan on
or after January 1, 2006, or such Participant s Spouse or other beneficiary, shall be entitled
to a benefit payable hereunder equal to the excess, if any, of: 

(a) The amount of Participant s or surviving Spouse s or other beneficiaries  Pension Plan
Benefits under the provisions of the Pension Plan, calculated on the assumption that all
bonus amounts that the Participant elected to defer under the JCI Executive Deferred
Compensation Plan were paid as  earnings  as defined in the Pension Plan (to the extent not
already included in such  earnings  under the Pension Plan definition and subject to the
limit on compensation imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Code); over

(b) The amount of Pension Plan Benefits actually payable to such Participant, surviving
Spouse or other beneficiary for each month under the Pension Plan, as computed under the
provisions of the Pension Plan.

27 

ADDENDUM 
SPECIAL GRANDFATHER AND TRANSITION RULES

Pursuant to the provisions of Notice 2005-1 and the additional transition rules provided in
proposed regulations under Code Section 409A:

1. 
       
     The terms of this Amended and Restated Plan shall not apply to any participant who terminated
employment prior to January 1, 2005, and was entitled to a payment under Article 4 (prior to
its amendment) or the JCI Pension Restoration Plan. Such participants shall continue to be
entitled to receive payment of the supplemental pension benefit at the same time and in the
same form as the benefit is paid under the Pension Plan. 

2. 
       
     Any Participant who terminated employment during 2005 and 2006 and who was entitled to a
payment under Article 4 (Pension Supplement) or the JCI Pension Restoration Plan received such
payment in the same form and at the same time as payments were made under the Pension Plan.
Those payments, and any other payments that began to be made under the Plan prior to January
1, 2005, shall continue to be paid in the form of distribution in effect as of the date
payments began. 

3. 
       
     The Company provided each Participant with an opportunity to file a new distribution election
during calendar year 2005, with respect to his Savings Supplement Account and his vested PERT
Equalization Benefit Plan Account, as applicable. The new distribution election allowed the
Participant to select a lump sum or up to ten (10) annual installments for each of his
sub-accounts. The distribution election received by the Administrator as of December 31, 2005
is irrevocable. 

4. 
       
     The Company provided each Participant who did not have a vested interest in his PERT
Equalization Benefit Plan Account with an opportunity to file a new distribution election
during calendar year 2006,  provided  that such election could not cause a payment otherwise due
in 2006 to be deferred to a later year or cause a payment otherwise due in 2007 to be made in
2006. The new distribution election allowed the Participant to select a lump sum or up to ten
(10) annual installments for each of his sub-accounts. The distribution election received by
the Administrator as of December 31, 2006 is irrevocable. 

5. 
       
     During calendar year 2006, the Company provided Mr. C. David Myers with an opportunity to
file an election as to the form of distribution for the portion of his Supplemental Plan
Account attributable to retirement income supplemental contributions (and earnings thereon).
The distribution election received by the Administrator as of December 31, 2006 is irrevocable
with respect to such portion of the Supplemental Plan Account. The distribution election on
file as of December 31, 2005, continues to apply to the remainder of his Supplemental Plan
Account. 

6. 
       
     For 2006, Mr. Barth and Mr. Wandell, participants under Appendix A, delayed the
implementation of their salary increases until July 1, 2006. For purposes of calculating 

28 

the Pension Plan Supplement and Matching Contributions under Appendix A for such
individuals, the increase in base salary shall be deemed effective January 1, 2006. 

29 

</EX-10.Z>

<EX-10.AA>
 12
 c08525exv10waa.htm
 SUMMARY OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION

exv10waa 

EX-10.AA

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 

COMPENSATION SUMMARY FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS 

Compensation for non-employee members of the Board of Directors (the  Board ) of Johnson
Controls, Inc. (the  Company ), effective October 1, 2006, consists of the payment for the
Company s fiscal year of:

(i) a retainer at the annual rate of $200,000 to each non-employee director in the form of
$100,000 in cash and $100,000 in common stock of the Company (the  Retainer ) and

(ii) a Committee chair fee at the annual rate of $25,000 in cash to each non-employee chair
and successor chair for the Audit, Corporate Governance, Nominating and Compensation Committees of
the Board (the  Committee Chair Fee ).

Payment of Common Stock Portion of the Retainer.  The Company will pay the common
stock portion of the Retainer on the date of the annual shareholders meeting to each director then
in office, subject to the following:

If a director is retiring from the Board as of the date of such annual shareholders meeting,
then
the director will be entitled to receive common stock with an aggregate value equal to (x)
the
number of days that have elapsed from October 1 of the fiscal year in question to the date
of the
annual shareholders meeting divided by (y) 365, multiplied by $100,000; 

If a director is newly elected at the annual shareholders meeting, or was appointed as a
director on
or after the October 1 of the fiscal year in question, then the director will be entitled to
receive
common stock with an aggregate value equal to (x) the number of days in the period from the
effective date of the director s appointment or election to the Board through September 30
of the
fiscal year in question divided by (y) 365, multiplied by $100,000. 

If a director is newly appointed or elected to the Board after the annual shareholders meeting
in the fiscal year in question, then the director will be entitled to receive upon the effective
date of his or her appointment or election common stock with an aggregate value equal to (x) the
number of days in the period from the effective date of the director s appointment or election
through September 30 of the fiscal year in question divided by (y) 365, multiplied by $100,000.

If a director retires from the Board either on October 1 or after October 1 of the fiscal
year in question but prior to the annual shareholders meeting in such fiscal year, then the
director will be entitled to receive upon the effective date of his or her date of retirement
common stock with an aggregate value of (x) the number of days
that have elapsed from October 1 of
the fiscal year in question to the date of the director s retirement divided by (y) 365,
multiplied by $100,000.

Payment of the Cash Portion of the Retainer and Committee Chair Fee.  The Company will
pay the cash portion of the Retainer and the Committee Chair Fee in the form of a quarterly
payment ($25,000 per quarter for the cash portion of the Retainer and $6,250 per quarter for the
Committee Chair Fee) in advance on the first business day of each quarter to each director then in
office, except that the Company will make the first payment on November 15, 2006. If a director is
either elected or appointed to the Board or is appointed as a Committee Chair (or successor to a
Committee Chair) at any time during the fiscal year after the first business day of a quarter,
then such director will receive upon the effective date of such election or appointment, for the
quarter in which such election or appointment is effective, a

prorated amount of the cash portion of the Retainer and/or any Committee Chair Fee with
such amount to be determined in the manner set forth below:

Cash portion of Retainer:  The director shall receive a cash amount equal to (x) the
number of
days from the effective date of the appointment or election to the first day of the next
quarter
divided by (y) 90, multiplied by $25,000; and 

Committee Chair Fee:  The director shall receive a cash amount equal to (x) the number
of days
from the effective date of the appointment or election to the first day of the next quarter
divided
by (y) 90, multiplied by $6,250. 

The Company will not pay any fees for attendance at meetings of the Board or any committee.

Additionally, the Company will grant to all new non-employee members of the Board 800 shares
of common stock of the Company upon election or appointment to the Board.

All shares of stock to be issued to directors as contemplated above will be issued pursuant
to the 2003 Director Stock Plan.

Non-employee directors are permitted to defer all or any part of their Retainer and Committee
Chair Fees under the Johnson Controls, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for Certain Directors.

The Company will also reimburse non-employee directors for any expenses related to their
service on the Board.

2 

</EX-10.AA>

<EX-10.BB>
 13
 c08525exv10wbb.htm
 FORM OF RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT FOR 2001 RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN

exv10wbb 

Exhibit 10.BB 

RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT 

GRANTED TO  
       
      NUMBER OF SHARES  

Employee Name 
       
     ### 

GRANT DATE 

STOCK PRICE 

RESTRICTION PERIOD ENDS ON:  

dd/mm/yyyy

Closing Price on Grant Date

### Shares   dd/mm/yyyy 

### Shares   dd/mm/yyyy 

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 
RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN 

This certifies that on January 3, 2006, Johnson Controls, Inc., shall grant a Restricted
Stock Award as indicated above, upon the terms and conditions in this Agreement and the terms of
the Restricted Stock Plan dated October 1, 2001, and amended January 28, 2004, which terms the
Participant accepts.

Johnson Controls, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation, has its principal office in Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
(the  Company ). The Restricted Stock Plan (the  Plan ) was adopted October 1, 2001, to allow
Restricted Shares or Restricted Share Units of the Company s common stock ( Shares ) to be granted
to certain key employees of the Company or any Subsidiary, as defined in Section 425(f) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Subsidiary ).

The individual named in this agreement (the  Participant ) is a key employee of the Company or a
Subsidiary, and the Company desires the Participant to remain in such employ by providing the
Participant with a means to increase his/her proprietary interest in the Company s success. The
Plan and this Agreement shall be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors (the  Committee ). If at any time the Committee shall not be in existence, the Board
shall administer the Plan and this Agreement and each reference to the Committee herein shall be
deemed to include the Board.

The parties mutually agree as follows:

1. 
       
      Grant of Award . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, a copy of which
has been delivered to the Participant and made a part hereof, and this Agreement, the
Company grants to the Participant an award of Restricted Shares on the date and with
respect to the number of Shares specified above. The Participant may elect, prior to or
within thirty (30) days after the grant date, to convert the Award, in whole or in part,
to Restricted Share Units. If the Participant fails to make an election, the Award shall
remain in the form of Restricted Shares. Any capitalized terms not defined in this
Agreement will have the meanings provided in the Plan. 

2. 
       
      Restricted Shares . If the Award is in the form of Restricted Shares, the
Restricted shares are subject to the following provisions: 

Restriction Period.  The Company will hold the Restricted Shares in escrow for the
Restriction Period. During this period, the Participant may not sell, transfer, pledge,
assign or otherwise use these Restricted Shares, and the Restricted Shares shall be subject
to forfeiture as provided in Section 4. 

Restricted Shares will be held in a book entry share position while in escrow, subject to
the transfer restrictions and risk of forfeiture. 

a) 
       
      Removal of Restrictions.  Restricted Shares that have not been forfeited
shall become available to the Participant after the last day of the Restriction Period.
Once the Shares are released, the restrictions shall be removed from the Participant s
book entry share position. 

b) 
       
      Voting Rights . During the Restriction Period, the Participant may exercise
full voting rights with respect to the Restricted Shares. 

c) 
       
      Dividends and Other Distributions . Any dividends or other distributions
paid or delivered with respect to Restricted Shares will be subject to the same terms
and conditions (including risk of forfeiture) as the Restricted Shares to which they
relate. All dividends or other distributions paid or delivered with respect to
Restricted Shares during the Restriction Period (other than dividends or other
distributions payable in Shares) shall be allocated to a Share Unit account under the
Deferred Compensation Plan. Dividends or distributions payable in shares will be held
in a book entry share position as Restricted Shares. 

d) 
       
      Payment of Dividends . The value of the Participant s Share Unit account as
to which the Restriction Period has lapsed shall be paid to the Participant (or his
beneficiary). 

3. 
       
      Restricted Share Units.  If the Participant elects to convert all or part of this
Award to Restricted Share Units, the Restricted Share Units are subject to the following
terms: 

a) 
       
      Establishment of Account . The Company shall establish a bookkeeping
account under the Deferred Compensation Plan to which shall be credited the number of
Restricted Share Units elected. During the Restriction Period, the Restricted Share
Unit account will be subject to a risk of forfeiture as provided in Section 4. 

b) 
       
      Alienation of Account . The Participant (or beneficiary) shall not have any
right to assign, transfer, pledge, encumber or otherwise use the Restricted Share Unit
account (including after the Restriction Period has lapsed). 

- 2 - 

c) 
       
      Dividends and Other Distributions . The Participant s Restricted Share Unit
account shall be credited for any dividends or other distributions delivered on Shares
equivalent to the number of Restricted Share Units credited to such account, whether in
the form of cash or in property, in accordance with the terms of the Deferred
Compensation Plan. Such credit shall be subject to the same terms and conditions
(including risk of forfeiture) as the Restricted Share Units to which they relate. 

d) 
       
      Payment of Account . The value of the Participant s Share Unit account as
to which the Restriction Period has lapsed shall be paid to the Participant (or his
beneficiary) in accordance with the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan. 

4. 
       
      Termination of Employment   Risk of Forfeiture.  

a) 
       
      Retirement . If the Participant terminates employment from the Company and
its Subsidiaries due to Retirement, any remaining Restriction Period shall continue as
if the Participant continued in active employment. If the Participant engages in
Inimical Conduct after his Retirement, as determined by the Committee, any Restricted
Shares and/or Restricted Share Units still subject to a Restriction Period shall
automatically be forfeited as of the date of the Committee s determination. 

b) 
       
      Death or Disability . If the Participant s employment from the Company and
its Subsidiaries terminates because of death or Total and Permanent Disability at a
time when the Participant could not have been terminated for Cause, or if the
Participant dies after Retirement while this Award is still subject to the Restriction
Period, any remaining Restriction Period shall automatically lapse as of the date of
such termination of employment or death, as applicable. 

c) 
       
      Other Termination.  If the Participant s employment terminates for any
reason not described above, then any Restricted Shares and/or Restricted Share Units
(and all deferred dividends paid or credited thereon) still subject to the Restriction
Period as of the date of such termination shall automatically be forfeited and returned
to the Company. In the event of the Participant s involuntary termination of
employment by the Company or a Subsidiary for other than Cause, the Committee may waive
the automatic forfeiture of any or all such Shares or Share Units (and all deferred
dividends paid or credited thereon) and may add such new restrictions to such
Restricted Shares or Restricted Share Units as it deems appropriate. The Company may
suspend payment or delivery of Shares (without liability for interest thereon) pending
the Committee s determination of whether the Participant was or should have been
terminated for Cause or whether the Participant has engaged in Inimical Conduct. 

5. 
       
      Amendment of Agreement.  The Committee, subject to the provisions of the Restricted
Stock Plan, may amend this award agreement. 

6. 
       
      Withholding.  The Participant agrees to remit to the Company any foreign, Federal,
state and/or local taxes (including the Participant s FICA obligation) required by law to be
withheld with respect to the issuance of Shares or the vesting and/or distribution of the
Participant s Share Unit account. The
Company can withhold Shares no longer restricted, or can withhold from other cash or property
payable to the Participant, in the amount needed to satisfy any withholding obligations. 

The Participant may elect to tender to the Company previously acquired Shares to satisfy the
minimum tax withholding obligations. The value of the Shares to be tendered is to be based on
the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is
determined. 

- 3 - 

7. 
       
      Securities Compliance.  The Company may place a legend or legends upon the certificates
for Shares issued under the Plan and may issue  stop transfer  instructions to its transfer
agent in respect of such Shares as it determines to be necessary or appropriate to (a) prevent
a violation of, or to obtain an exemption from, the registration requirements of the
Securities Act, applicable state securities laws or other legal requirements, or (b) implement
the provisions of the Plan or any agreement between the Company and the Participant with
respect to such Shares. 

8. 
       
      Successors.  All obligations of the Company under this Agreement shall be binding on
any successor to the Company. The terms of this Agreement and the Plan shall be binding upon
and inure to the benefit of the Participants, heirs, executors, administrators or legal
representatives. 

9. 
       
      Legal Compliance.  The granting of this Award and the issuance of Shares under this
Agreement shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations and to such
approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required. 

10. 
       
      Governing Law; Arbitration.  This Agreement and the rights and obligations hereunder
shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of
Wisconsin. 

Arbitration will be conducted per the provisions in the Restricted Stock Plan.

This Agreement, and any documents expressly incorporated herein, contains all of the
provisions applicable to the Restricted Stock Award. No other statements, documents or
practices may modify, waive or alter such provisions unless expressly set forth in writing,
signed by an authorized officer of the Company and delivered to the Participant.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Restricted Stock Agreement to be executed by
one of its duly authorized officers, and the Participant has consented to the terms of this
Agreement, as of the date of Grant specified on the front of this certificate.

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 

Jerome D. Okarma 
Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel

Participant

Date

- 4 - 

EMPLOYEE NAME 
AMENDMENT TO RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENTS

On January 3, 2006, you received an award of Restricted Stock under the Johnson Controls, Inc.
Restricted Stock Plan. The Compensation Committee amended the plan to change the vesting rules for
retirement. Because of this change to the plan, Section 4.a) of your Restricted Stock Agreement is
amended to read as follows:

a)  Retirement . If the Participant terminates employment from the Company and
its Subsidiaries due to Retirement  on or after the last day of the calendar year
following the calendar year in which the Award of Restricted Shares or Restricted
Share Units is made , any remaining Restriction Period shall continue as if the
Participant continued in active employment ; provided, however, that for awards granted
on January 3, 2006, if the Participant terminates employment due to Retirement on or
after December 31, 2006, any remaining Period of Restriction shall continue as if the
Participant continued in active employment . If the Participant engages in Inimical
Conduct after his Retirement, as determined by the Committee, any Restricted Shares
and/or Restricted Share Units still subject to a Restriction Period shall
automatically be forfeited as of the date of the Committee s determination.

Please sign below to acknowledge your receipt of, and agreement to, this Amendment to your
Restricted Stock Agreement. Please keep the duplicate copy of this Amendment (which is attached)
with your Restricted Stock Agreements in your personal records. A copy of the amended plan is
enclosed.

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC.

Its: Vice President, Secretary and 
       General Counsel

PARTICIPANT: 

Employee Name 

Dated:

</EX-10.BB>

<EX-10.CC>
 14
 c08525exv10wcc.htm
 FORM OF STOCK OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT FOR 2000 STOCK OPTION PLAN

exv10wcc 

Exhibit 10.CC 

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 
OPTION AWARD 

Name:   Employee Name 

Number of Options:  #### 

Grant Date:  mm/dd/yyyy

Expiration Date:  mm/dd/yyyy 

Exercisable Date:  mm/dd/yyyy

Option Exercise Price:  $$.$$ 

2006
Stock Option Grant   Terms for Nonqualified Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights  

Johnson Controls, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation with its principal office in Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, (the  Company ) has adopted the 2000 Stock Option Plan (the  Plan ) to permit
options to purchase shares of the Company s common stock ( Stock ) to be granted to certain key
employees of the Company or any Subsidiary, as defined in Section 425(f) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Subsidiary ). The individual (the  Optionee ) is a key
employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, and the Company desires the Optionee to remain in such
employ by providing the Optionee with a means to acquire or to increase his/her proprietary
interest in the Company s success.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the covenants and agreements herein set
forth, the parties hereby mutually covenant and agree as follows:

1. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, a copy of which has been made available to
the Optionee and made a part hereof, and this Agreement, the Company grants to the Optionee:

a) In the case of a Nonqualified Stock Option, right to purchase from the Company all or
any part of an aggregate number of shares of Stock. (Hereinafter such shares of Stock are
referred to as the  Optioned Shares  and the option to purchase the Optioned Shares is referred
to as the  Option ). The Option is intended to constitute a  nonqualified stock option  or an
option for  stock appreciation rights. 

b) The purchase price payable upon exercise of the Nonqualified Stock Option shall be the
option exercise price per share indicated in the Optionee notification, subject to adjustment as
described in the terms of the Plan.

c) An Option granted for Stock Appreciation Rights entitles the Optionee to receive the
economic value of such stock appreciation rights determined in the manner prescribed in the Plan
document, Paragraph 16, subparagraph (b), and in the form prescribed in Paragraph 16,
subparagraph (c).

2. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, the Option may be
exercised by the Optionee while in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary, in whole or in
part in increments of 100 shares or more, from time to time, subject to the vesting dates and
expiration date. The vesting schedule of the option is as follows:

(a) Fifty Percent (50%) of the Option shall vest on the two-year anniversary date of
the Grant Date.

(b) Fifty Percent (50%) of the Option shall vest on the three-year anniversary date of
the Grant Date.

The Option shall expire ten years from the Option Grant Date.

3. The Option may be exercised only by written notice, delivered, faxed or mailed to the
Shareholder Services Department of the Company in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, specifying the number
of Optioned Shares being purchased. Such notice shall be accompanied by payment of the entire
option price of the Optioned Shares being purchased: (i) in cash or its equivalent; (ii) by
tendering previously acquired shares of Stock valued at their fair market value at the time of

1 

exercise; or (iii) by any combination of (i) and (ii). For purposes of this paragraph, fair
market value shall be determined in the same manner as the fair market value of the Stock on
the Grant Date was determined pursuant to the Plan document.

An Optionee selected by the Compensation Committee to participate in the Deferral Plan may
defer receipt of shares of Common Stock deliverable upon exercise by making a deferral election
as set forth in the Johnson Controls Stock Option Deferral Policies and Procedures.

4. (a) It shall be a condition of the obligation of the Company to issue or transfer shares of
Stock upon exercise of the Option, and that the Optionee pay to the Company upon its demand,
such amount as may be requested by the Company for the purpose of satisfying its liability to
withhold federal, state or local income or other taxes incurred by reason of the exercise of
the Option. If the amount requested is not paid, the Company may refuse to issue or transfer
shares of Stock upon exercise of the Option.

(b) The Optionee shall be permitted to satisfy the Company s withholding tax requirements
by electing (the  Election ) to have the Company withhold shares of Stock otherwise issuable to
the Optionee or to deliver to the Company shares of Stock having a fair market value on the
date income is recognized pursuant to the exercise of the Option (the  Tax Date ) equal to the
minimum amount required to be withheld by the Optionee. If the number of shares of Stock
determined pursuant to the preceding sentence shall include a fractional share, the number of
shares withheld or delivered shall be reduced to the next lower whole number and the Optionee
shall deliver to the Company cash in lieu of such fractional share, or otherwise make
arrangements satisfactory to the Company for payment of such amount.

i. 
       
     The Election must be received by the Shareholder Services Department of
the Company, at its principal office, prior to the Optionee s Tax Date. 

ii. 
       
     The Election shall be irrevocable, and shall be subject to disapproval,
in whole or in part, by the Committee. The Election shall be made in writing and
shall be made according to such rules and regulations and in such form as the
Committee shall determine. 

5. (a) In the event a Participant s employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries
shall be terminated for any reason, except early or normal retirement, death or total and
permanent disability, a Participant may exercise his or her Options or stock appreciation rights
(to the extent vested and exercisable as of the date of the Participant s termination of
employment) for a period of thirty (30) days after the date of the Participant s termination of
employment, unless such Option or stock appreciation right expires earlier under the terms of
the award agreement. Thereafter, all rights to exercise an Option or stock appreciation right
shall terminate.

(b) If the Optionee ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary by reason of
early or normal retirement or total and permanent disability, the option or stock appreciation
right: (i) shall be exercisable in full without regard to any vesting requirements; provided
that an Option or stock appreciation right of a Participant who retires shall be exercisable in
full only if the Participant retires on or after the last day of the calendar year following the
calendar year in which such Option or stock appreciation right was granted, unless the Committee
determines otherwise, and (ii) may be exercised by the Participant at any time within thirty-six
months after the date of such early or normal retirement or termination due to total and
permanent disability, as the case may be, unless such Option or stock appreciation right expires
earlier under the terms of the award agreement.

In the event of the death of a retired Optionee or an Optionee on total and permanent
disability, the Option may be exercised by the person to whom the Option is transferred, by will
or by applicable laws of the descent and distribution, as if the Optionee had remained living.

For certain participants who are officers of the Company or who are selected by the
Compensation Committee of the Board, nonqualified stock options and stock appreciation rights
may be exercised, unless terminated earlier by its terms, in full without regard to any vesting
requirements, at the date of the Optionee s retirement or disability, for a
period selected by the Compensation Committee of either five (5) or ten (10) years after early
or normal retirement, or for five (5) years after the date of such total and permanent
disability, as the case may be, and not thereafter.

2 

In the event of the Optionee s death while actively employed by the company, the Option may
be exercised to the extent otherwise exercisable under paragraph 3 at the date of the Optionee s
death, the Option may be exercised by the person to whom the Option is transferred by will or by
applicable laws of the descent and distribution, unless terminated earlier by its terms, by
giving notice, as provided in paragraph 4, at any time within twelve (12) months after the date
of death, and not thereafter.

For purposes of this subparagraph, the Optionee s employment shall be deemed to be
terminated due to (i) early or normal retirement if the Optionee is then eligible to receive
immediate early or normal retirement benefits under the provisions of the Company s or its
subsidiaries defined benefit pension plans; or, absent a defined pension plan, if the Optionee
has worked at least ten continuous years for the Company and is at least 55 years old, or
retires with five continuous years of service and is at least 65 years old and (ii) total and
permanent disability if the Optionee is permanently and totally disabled within the meaning of
Section 22(e)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

(c) Termination for cause or inimical conduct shall cause the cancellation and forfeiture
of any Option, regardless of vesting; and any pending exercises shall be cancelled on that
date. Any amount the Participant owes to the company may be offset from an amount payable or
stock deliverable hereunder.

(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, from and after a Change of Control, the Option shall
continue to be exercisable for a sixty-day period after the Optionee s termination of
employment.

6. The Optionee shall not be deemed for any purposes to be a stockholder of the Company with
respect to any shares which may be acquired hereunder except to the extent that the Option
shall have been exercised with respect thereto and shares of Johnson Controls common stock
issued therefor.

7. No Option granted hereunder shall be transferable other than options specifically designated
by the Compensation Committee as such and meeting the following requirements of transfer:

a) by will or by the laws of descent and distribution; or

b) in the case of a nonqualified option:

(i) 
       
     pursuant to a  Qualified Domestic Relations Order  as defined in Section
414(p) of the Internal Revenue Code; or 

(ii) 
       
     to (A) his or her spouse, children or grandchildren ( Immediate Family
Members ), (B) a partnership in which the only partners are the Participant s
Immediate Family Members, or (C) a trust or trusts established solely for the
benefit of one or more of the Participant s Immediate Family Members (collectively,
the Permitted Transferees), provided that there may be no consideration for any
such transfer by a Participant. 

Following transfer (if applicable), such Options shall continue to be subject to the same
terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer, provided that such
Options may be exercised during the life of the Participant only by the Participant or, if
applicable, by the alternate payee designated under a Qualified Domestic Relations Order or the
Participant s Permitted Transferees.

8. The Optionee agrees for himself/herself and the Optionee s heirs, legatees, and legal
representatives, with respect to all shares of Stock acquired pursuant to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement (or any shares of Stock issued pursuant to a stock dividend or
stock split thereon or any securities issued in lieu thereof or in substitution or exchange
therefor) that the Optionee and the Optionee s heirs, legatees, and legal representatives will
not sell or otherwise dispose of such shares except pursuant to an effective registration
statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ( Act ), or except in a transaction
which, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, is exempt from registration under the Act.

9. The existence of the Option herein granted shall not affect in any way the right or power
of the Company or its stockholders to make or authorize any or all adjustments,
recapitalizations, reorganizations, or other changes in the Company s capital structure or its
business, or any merger or consolidation of the Company, or any issuance of bonds, debentures,
preferred, or prior preference stock ahead of or affecting the Stock or the rights thereof, or
dissolution or liquidation of the Company, or any sale or transfer of all or any part of its
assets or business, or any other corporate act or proceeding, whether of a similar character or
otherwise.

3 

10. As a condition of the granting of the Option, the Optionee agrees for himself/herself and
his/her legal representatives, that any dispute or disagreement which may arise under or as a
result of or pursuant to this Agreement shall be governed by the internal laws of the State of
Wisconsin and settled by final binding arbitration in accordance with the rules of the American
Arbitration Association and the provisions of the Plan.

11. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Agreement, in the event of a Change
of Control of the Company, as defined in Paragraphs 20 and 21 of the Plan document, the Option
shall immediately become exercisable with respect to all or any part of the Optioned Shares.
Further, upon a Change of Control of the Company, Optionee may elect to surrender all or a part
of the Option to the Company and receive a cash payment, as defined in Paragraph 21 of the Plan
document.

This Agreement, and any documents expressly incorporated herein, contain all of the provisions
applicable to the Options and no other statements, documents or practices may modify, waive or
alter such provisions unless expressly set forth in writing, signed by an authorized officer of
the Company and delivered to the Optionee.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Option Agreement to be executed by one of its
duly authorized officers as of the date of Grant.

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 

Jerome D. Okarma 
Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel

4 

</EX-10.CC>

<EX-21>
 15
 c08525exv21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21 

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC. 

Following is a list of significant subsidiaries of the Company, as defined by section 1.02(w) of
Regulation S-X, as of December 1, 2006.

Jurisdiction  

Where  

Subsidiary is  

Name  
       
      Incorporated  

Hoover Universal, Inc.

Michigan 

Johnson Controls Battery Group, Inc.

Wisconsin 

Johnson Controls Holding Company, Inc.

Delaware 

Johnson Controls Technology Company

Michigan 

York International Corporation

Delaware 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 16
 c08525exv23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23 

EXHIBIT 23 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-3 and
Form S-8 listed below of Johnson Controls, Inc. of our report dated December 1, 2006 relating to
the financial statements, financial statement schedule, management s assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K . 

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
December 1, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 17
 c08525exv31w1.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CEO

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, John M. Barth, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Johnson Controls, Inc., certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Johnson Controls, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: December 5, 2006  
     /s/ John M. Barth

John M. Barth  

Chairman and

Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 18
 c08525exv31w2.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CFO

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, R. Bruce McDonald, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Johnson Controls,
Inc., certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Johnson Controls, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: December 5, 2006  
     /s/ R. Bruce McDonald

R. Bruce McDonald  

Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 19
 c08525exv32.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATIONS OF CEO AND CFO

exv32 

EXHIBIT 32 

CERTIFICATION OF PERIODIC FINANCIAL REPORTS  

We, John M. Barth, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and R. Bruce McDonald, Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, of Johnson Controls, Inc., certify, pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) 
       
     the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006 (the
 Periodic Report ) to which this statement is an exhibit fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15
U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) and 

(2) 
       
     information contained in the Periodic Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Johnson Controls, Inc. 

Dated: December 5, 2006

/s/ John M. Barth

John M. Barth

Chairman and 

Chief Executive Officer 

/s/ R. Bruce McDonald

R. Bruce McDonald

Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-32>

