<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061013_10-K_edgar_data_109156_0000950134-06-019031_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1827933</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>756652</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>710222</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>56</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>17</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-06-019031.hdr.sgml : 20061013
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061013121419
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-06-019031
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		18
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060731
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061013
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061013

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ZALE CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000109156
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-JEWELRY STORES [5944]
		IRS NUMBER:				750675400
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0731

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-04129
		FILM NUMBER:		061143651

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		901 W WALNUT HILL LN
		STREET 2:		MS 6B-3
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75038
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9725804000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		901 WEST WALNUT HILL LANE
		STREET 2:		MAIL STOP 6B-3
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75038-1003

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ZALE JEWELRY CO INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19710510

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Nl2DQazBcgthC9bP1MybARZd0czx23X1UvW54BSh0VfyNDXzl/Vz10VSD1+Yp/1O
 e7PIOJmhpNy4TOELLSPf3Q==

 0000950134-06-019031.txt : 20061013

10-K
 1
 d40232e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form 10-K 

For the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006 

Zale Corporation 

A Delaware Corporation 
IRS Employer Identification No. 75-0675400 
SEC File Number 1-04129

901 W. Walnut Hill Lane 
Irving, Texas 75038-1003 
(972) 580-4000

Zale Corporation s common stock, par value $.01 per share, is registered pursuant to Section
12 (b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Act ) and is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange. Zale Corporation does not have any securities registered under Section 12 (g) of the Act.
Zale Corporation (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Act
during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.

Disclosure of the delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be contained
in our definitive Proxy Statement, portions of which are incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K.

The aggregate market value of Zale Corporation s common stock (based upon the closing sales
price quoted on the New York Stock Exchange) held by non-affiliates as of January 31, 2006 was
$1,168,828,109. As of September 22, 2006, 48,195,001 shares of Zale Corporation s common stock were
outstanding. For this purpose, directors and officers have been assumed to be affiliates.

Zale Corporation is a large accelerated filer and a well-known seasoned issuer.

Zale Corporation is not a shell company.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE. 

Portions of Zale Corporation s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on November 15, 2006 are incorporated by reference into Part III.

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

PART I   
     ITEM 1. BUSINESS   
     ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   
     ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   
     ITEM 2. PROPERTIES   
     ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
     ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   
     ITEM 4A. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND KEY EMPLOYEES OF THE REGISTRANT   
   PART II   
     ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   
     ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
     ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
     ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   
     ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   
     ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   
     ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
     ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION   
   PART III   
     ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   
     ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
     ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   
     ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   
     ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES   
   PART IV   
     ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K   
   Amendment to the Revolving Credit Agreement   
   Savings and Investment Plan as Amended   
   2003 Stock Incentive Plan as Amended   
   Outside Directors' 2005 Stock Incentive Plan as Amended   
   Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan as Amended   
   Employment Agreement - Mary E. Burton   
   Employment Agreement - Gilbert P. Hollander   
   Employment Agreement - Frank C. Mroczka   
   Zale Corporation Bonus Plan   
   Base Salaries   
   Subsidiaries   
   Consent of KPMG LLP   
   Certification of Chief Executive Officer   
   Certification of Chief Financial Officer   
   Certification of Chief Executive Officer   
   Certification of Chief Financial Officer   
   Compensation Committee Charter   

Table of Contents   

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

We are, through our wholly owned subsidiaries, North America s largest specialty retailer of
fine jewelry. At July 31, 2006, we operated 1,456 specialty retail jewelry stores, 817 kiosks and
76 carts located mainly in shopping malls throughout the United States of America ( U.S. ), Canada
and Puerto Rico.

We were incorporated in Delaware in 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 901
W. Walnut Hill Lane, Irving, Texas 75038-1003. Our telephone number at that address is (972)
580-4000, and our Internet address is  www.zalecorp.com. 

During the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006 ( fiscal year 2006 ), we generated $2.4 billion of
net revenues. We believe we are well-positioned to compete in the approximately $61 billion,
combined U.S. and Canadian retail jewelry industry, leveraging our established brand names,
economies of scale and geographic and demographic diversity. We have significant brand name
recognition as a result of each brand s long-standing presence in the industry and our national and
regional advertising campaigns. We believe that brand name recognition is an important advantage
in jewelry retailing as jewelry products are generally unbranded and consumers must trust in a
retailer s reliability, credibility and commitment to customer service.

Business Segments 

We report our operations under three business segments: Fine Jewelry, Kiosk Jewelry and All
Other. An overview of each business segment follows below. During fiscal year 2006, our Fine
Jewelry segment generated $2.1 billion or approximately 88 percent of net revenues. During fiscal
year 2006, the Kiosk revenues represented $276.7 million or approximately 11 percent of our total
revenues.

Fine Jewelry  

Our Fine Jewelry segment is comprised of six brands, each targeted to reach a distinct
customer. Each brand specializes in fine jewelry and watches, with merchandise and marketing
emphasis focused on diamond products. Zales Jewelers  is our national brand in the U.S. providing
moderately priced jewelry to a broad range of customers. Zales Jewelers has extended the reach of
its brand to the Internet shopper through its e-commerce site,  zales.com.  We have further leveraged
the brand strength through Zales Outlet, which focuses on a slightly higher-income female self
purchaser in outlet malls and neighborhood power centers. Gordon s Jewelers  is a regional jeweler
focusing on customer driven assortments. Bailey Banks   Biddle Fine Jewelers  operates jewelry
stores that are considered among the finest luxury jewelry stores in their markets, offering
designer jewelry and prestige watches to attract more affluent customers. Bailey Banks   Biddle
Fine Jewelers has expanded its presence in the luxury market through its e-commerce site,
 baileybanksandbiddle.com . Peoples Jewellers    and Mappins Jewellers  offer moderately priced
jewelry in malls throughout Canada.

Zale North America  

In fiscal year 2006, we consolidated the management of our flagship brands in the U.S. and
Canada, Zales Jewelers, Peoples Jewellers, and Mappins Jewellers, respectively, under one senior
management team, thereby creating Zale North America.

Zales Jewelers.   Zales, our national flagship, is a leading brand name in jewelry retailing in
the U.S., with 784 stores in 50 states and Puerto Rico, and accounted for approximately 44 percent of
our total revenues in fiscal year 2006. Zales  average store size is 1,666 square feet with an
average transaction total of $358 in fiscal year 2006.

While placing added emphasis on the bridal segment of its business, Zales maintains a balance
with non-bridal merchandise such as fashion jewelry and watches as well as its Brilliant Buy and
promotional

- 1 - 

Table of Contents   

strategy to drive sales during gift-giving occasions and throughout the year. In
fiscal year 2006, bridal merchandise represented 45 percent of Zales  merchandise sales, while
fashion jewelry and watches comprised the remaining 55 percent. The bridal merchandise category
consists of engagement rings, bridal sets and diamond anniversary bands. Fashion jewelry consists
of diamond fashion jewelry, precious and semi-precious jewelry, gold jewelry, watches and various
other items. We believe that the prominence of diamond jewelry in our product selection and our
reputation for customer service for over 80 years fosters an image of quality and trust among
consumers.

As the Zales brand entered into fiscal year 2006, the brand was repositioned, including more
stylish and upscale merchandise in its assortments and marketing. The strategy did not succeed and
significant changes were made (see  Business Developments  on page 4) with a goal of regaining
market share.

Zales, a multi-channel retailer, serves the Internet customer through its e-commerce site,
 zales.com , which accounted for approximately one percent of our total revenues in fiscal year 2006.

Peoples
Jewellers and Mappins Jewellers.   In Canada, we operate 175 stores in nine provinces and
enjoy the largest market share of any specialty jewelry retailer in Canada. Canadian operations
consists of two brands, Peoples Jewellers and Mappins Jewellers. Canadian operations accounted for
approximately nine percent of our total revenues in fiscal year 2006. The average store size is
1,590 square feet with an average transaction totaling $283 in fiscal year 2006.

Peoples Jewellers and Mappins Jewellers are two of the most recognized brand names in Canada.
Peoples Jewellers offers jewelry at affordable prices, attracting a wide variety of Canadian
customers. Using the trademark  Peoples, the Diamond Store  in Canada, Peoples emphasizes its
diamond business while also offering a wide selection of gold jewelry, gemstone jewelry and
watches. Due to the similarity in marketing and store designs, Peoples Jewellers is able to
leverage opportunities with Zales Jewelers. Since 2000, the Peoples brand has been building
recognition with an aggressive television campaign. Over the past three years, Peoples had the
largest television campaign of any Canadian jewelry retailer by a wide margin. Seasonal newspaper
inserts are also a key element in the Peoples marketing campaign. Mappins Jewellers differentiates
itself by offering exclusive merchandise primarily in its bridal assortments. Since 2000, Mappins
has utilized newspaper inserts and targeted direct mail offers to reach its customers.

Zales Outlet  

We operated Zales Outlet with stores in 35 states and Puerto Rico which accounted for
approximately seven percent of our total revenues in fiscal year 2006. The average store size is
2,385 square feet, with an average transaction total of $398 in fiscal year 2006.

The outlet concept has evolved into one of the strongest concepts in retail shopping today,
featuring items in every major jewelry category including branded watches, gemstones, gold
merchandise, and diamond fashion and solitaire products. The merchandise assortment in a typical
Zales Outlet store caters to the higher-income female self purchaser, offering 20 to 70 percent off
traditional retail prices every day. We have grown our Zales Outlet concept over the past eight
years from four stores in 1998 to the 131 stores in operation at the end of fiscal year 2006.

Although Zales Outlet was established as an extension of the Zales brand and capitalizes on
Zales  national advertising and brand recognition, Zales Outlet offers its own unique product line
and augments this with promotional efforts that are geared specifically to the outlet consumer.

Gordon s Jewelers  

Gordon s is positioned
as our second mall-based brand. As of July 31, 2006,
Gordon s had 293
stores in 35 states and Puerto Rico and accounted for approximately 14 percent of our total
revenues in fiscal year 2006. Average store size is 1,512 square feet with an average transaction
total of $416 in fiscal year 2006.
Gordon s strives to distinguish itself by understanding local and regional differences to
tailor its assortments more appropriately for each store s locale.

- 2 - 

Table of Contents   

We are continuing steps to differentiate the Gordon s brand and determine the proper
positioning of the brand. We believe its strengths include versioned product assortments and
merchandise that caters to local ethnic demographics.

Bailey Banks   Biddle Fine Jewelers  

At July 31, 2006, Bailey Banks   Biddle operated 73 upscale jewelry stores in 25 states. We
also utilize the trade name Zell Bros  for one location operated by the Bailey Banks   Biddle
brand. Average store size is 3,994 square feet with an average transaction total of $1,610
(excluding closed stores) in fiscal year 2006. Total revenue at Bailey Banks   Biddle accounted
for approximately 13 percent of our total revenues in fiscal year 2006.

During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, we closed 32 Bailey Banks   Biddle stores as
part of the brand s strategy to improve profitability and performance. As a result of the store
closings, we incurred charges of approximately $21.2 million or $0.43 per diluted share after taxes
related to inventory, leasehold improvements, and lease exit costs.

For 172 years, Bailey Banks   Biddle has combined classic jewelry with contemporary designs,
offering a compelling shopping environment for the high-end luxury consumer. Bailey Banks   Biddle
locations are among the preeminent stores in their markets. They carry both exclusive and
recognized branded and designer merchandise selections to appeal to the more affluent customer. The
Bailey Banks   Biddle merchandise assortments are carefully selected to provide treasures that will
be appreciated for generations with a focus on diamonds, precious gemstones, gold, and branded
designer jewelry, complemented by an extensive assortment of prestige watch brands and giftware.

Kiosk Jewelry  

The Kiosk Jewelry segment operates primarily under the brand names Piercing Pagoda , Plumb
Gold , Silver and Gold Connection  (in the U.S.) and Peoples II  (in Canada) through mall based
kiosks and carts and reaches the opening price point select jewelry customer. The Kiosk Jewelry
segment specializes in gold and silver products that capitalize on the latest fashion trends.

At July 31, 2006, Piercing Pagoda operated 817 locations in 42 states and Puerto Rico. During
fiscal year 2006, we operated 76 carts in Canada under the name Peoples II, which sell items
consistent with the best selling fashion items in the Piercing Pagoda kiosks.

At the entry-level price point, the Kiosk Jewelry segment targets a young, fashion forward
customer. The kiosks and carts offer an extensive collection of popularly priced bracelets,
earrings, charms, rings, and 14 karat and 10 karat gold chains, as well as a selection of silver
and diamond jewelry, all in basic styles at moderate prices. In addition, trained associates
perform ear-piercing services on site.

Kiosks and carts are generally located in high traffic locations that are easily accessible
and visible within regional shopping malls. The kiosk locations average 189 square feet in size,
with an average transaction of $38 in fiscal year 2006.

All Other  

We provide insurance and reinsurance facilities for various types of insurance coverage, which
typically are marketed to our private label credit card customers, through Zale Indemnity Company,
Zale Life Insurance Company and Jewel Re-Insurance Ltd. The three companies are the insurers
(either through direct written or reinsurance contracts) of our customer credit insurance
coverages. In addition to providing merchandise replacement coverage for certain perils, credit
insurance coverage provides protection to the creditor and cardholder for losses associated with
the disability, involuntary unemployment, leave of absence or death of the cardholder. Zale Life
Insurance Company also provides group life insurance
coverage for our eligible employees. Zale Indemnity Company, in addition to writing direct
credit insurance contracts, has certain discontinued lines of insurance that it continues to
service. Credit insurance operations are dependent on our retail sales through our private label
credit cards. In fiscal year 2006, 39.8 percent of our private label credit card purchasers
purchased some form of credit insurance. Under the current private label arrangement with Citibank
U.S.A., N.A. ( Citi ), our insurance affiliates continue to

- 3 - 

Table of Contents   

provide insurance to holders of our
private label credit cards and receive payments for such insurance products. In fiscal year 2006,
the All Other Segment accounted for less than 1 percent of our total revenues.

Business Developments 

During
fiscal year 2006 there were significant changes in our management team. Effective
January 31, 2006, President and Chief Executive Officer Mary L. Fort  resigned and Mary E. Burton,
a member of our Board of Directors, was appointed Acting Chief Executive Officer. Subsequently,
Ms. Burton was permanently appointed as President and Chief Executive Officer. She remains as a
director of the Company.

Effective February 16, 2006, John Zimmermann was appointed President of Zale North America,
responsible for the Zales Jewelers, Peoples Jewellers, Mappins Jewellers, and Peoples II brands.
Mr. Zimmermann had formerly been President of Zale Canada which included the Peoples Jewellers and
Mappins Jewellers brands.

On March 23, 2006, Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President Sue E. Gove resigned.

On May 5, 2006, Chief Financial Officer and Group Senior Vice President Mark Lenz was placed
on administrative leave. This decision was made after discussions with our outside auditors
concerning Mr. Lenz s failure to timely disclose in conversations with the auditors that vendor
payments scheduled to be made during the last two weeks of our fiscal year ended July 31, 2005 were
delayed until the first week of August 2005. Cash and accounts payable were properly reflected on
the balance sheet. Mr. Lenz s employment ended on July 31, 2006 upon the expiration of his
employment contract.

On May 5, 2006, George R. Mihalko, Jr. was elected as a director of the Company and agreed to
serve as Acting Chief Administrative Officer and Acting Chief Financial Officer.

Rodney Carter was appointed Chief Financial Officer and Group Senior Vice President, effective
October 16, 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Carter was the Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., and prior to that position, was the Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for CEC Entertainment, Inc.

In making these executive changes, we reiterated our commitment to long-term growth through
our core strategies of regaining market share, increasing margin through direct sourcing and
internal production of diamond product, and making investments in our people.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, we recorded an after tax special charge primarily
consisting of (1) $16.8 million to accelerate inventory markdowns on discontinued items, (2) $3.3
million related to the termination of an information technology initiative not consistent with the
needs of our business, and (3) a $2.9 million asset impairment related to certain test stores.
Separately, we recorded a $1.5 million after tax charge for accrued percentage rent related to
prior periods and a $1.9 million tax charge primarily related to Canadian earnings.

Business Initiatives and Strategy 

Regain Market Share  

We believe rebuilding the Zales brand is key to our return to a leadership position. Last
Holiday season, assortments were repositioned with less emphasis on diamond fashion to a focus on
trendier styles. This repositioning was not successful. The merchandise direction for fiscal year
2007 will include a
renewed emphasis on diamond fashion and solitaire engagement rings, dominant assortments
across bridal and diamond fashion and consistent assortments of moderately priced merchandise
across all stores. In addition to more robust assortments, Zales will reemphasize Brilliant Buys
and add back key promotional events backed by television advertising.

- 4 - 

Table of Contents   

In the upcoming Holiday season, a new creative, a return to  Zales, the Diamond Store,  and a
focus on the breadth and depth of assortments will better position the Zales brand. The strategy
also includes an investment in store personnel, a revised compensation structure and increased
product training, as well as additional training to translate product knowledge to sales. We
believe this approach should result in higher average store revenues and is consistent with our
strategy of regaining market leadership.

We believe our brand recognition is a competitive advantage across each of our nameplates.
This is especially important because, when consumers feel they lack the expertise to evaluate the
quality and value of jewelry purchases, they rely on known brand names to ensure quality and value.
As an industry leader, we continue to set the standard for delivering innovative and creatively
designed products to consumers. We believe our proven ability to capitalize on evolving
merchandise trends and interpret those trends to our entire customer base is what differentiates us
from our competition. In addition, as the largest specialty retailer of fine jewelry in North
America, we believe we realize economies of scale in purchasing, distribution, leasing, advertising
and administrative costs. We also believe that the geographic diversity of our retail distribution
network through all 50 states, Puerto Rico and Canada, and the demographic breadth of our target
customer groups may serve to reduce earnings volatility typically associated with local or regional
conditions.

During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, we closed 32 Bailey Banks   Biddle stores that
did not fit with the brand s long term positioning in the luxury market and as part of the brand s
strategy to improve performance and profitability. The closings resulted in a charge of
approximately $21.2 million or $0.43 per diluted share after taxes related to inventory, leasehold
improvements, and lease exit costs.

In fiscal year 2006, we tested a repair store concept with three locations that were
ultimately closed.

In fiscal year 2007, we plan to open approximately 58 new stores, principally under the brand
names Peoples Jewellers, Mappins Jewellers, Zales Jewelers, and Zales Outlet, as well as 10
Piercing Pagoda kiosks. We expect to incur an aggregate of approximately $22 million in capital
expenditures. During fiscal year 2007, we also plan to refurbish, renovate or relocate
approximately 170 stores and kiosks at a cost of approximately $40 million.

Improve Gross Margin  

We plan to increase direct product sourcing to enhance margins, ensure consistency of quality,
and reliability of supply. This initiative consists of two opportunities: (1) the purchase and
assembly of cut and polished diamonds into a finished jewelry product and (2) direct importing of
finished goods.

We have a direct sourcing organization to coordinate the purchase and assembly of mountings
and loose diamonds into finished diamond product. This organization supplied approximately $84
million in purchases for our Canadian fine jewelry brands, Zales, Gordon s and Outlet, making it
one of our largest sources for product in fiscal year 2006.

In addition to the purchase and assembly of diamond products, direct importing of finished
product from overseas vendors also was identified as an opportunity. The Kiosk Jewelry segment and
the Fine Jewelry segment import basic gold and diamond merchandise directly from factories in
Europe, Asia and the Middle East in order to reduce product cost.

During fiscal year 2006, direct product sourcing of our merchandise improved gross margins on
the related products. In fiscal year 2006, we had gross margin improvements of 60 basis points
related to direct product sourcing. In fiscal year 2007, we expect to further improve margins by
increasing the percent of directly sourced product, particularly at Zales Jewelers.

As we move into fiscal year 2007, our Information Technology department has repositioned its
strategic initiatives by linking our business needs with related technology investments. More
efficient and effective store processes will be enabled as newer point-of-sale ( POS ) software is
introduced at select pilot stores. Additionally, we expect to design and begin implementing a
best-in-class merchandising, planning and allocation system. By electing a modular system, we
believe certain supply chain benefits
will be achieved beginning in late fiscal year 2007 with a full implementation set for
completion in fiscal year 2009 (August 1, 2008 to July 31, 2009). This direction marks a departure
from an enterprise-wide

- 5 - 

Table of Contents   

solution that we determined did not meet the needs of our business. We
recorded an after tax charge of $3.3 million or $0.07 per diluted share related to the abandoned
information technology initiative.

Invest in People  

We are investing in people to make sure we attract and retain the best associates. We are
investing in training to support our customers  need for knowledgeable sales associates. The
strategy also includes an investment in store personnel, a revised compensation structure and
increased product training as well as additional training to translate product knowledge to sales.

In fiscal year 2006, we increased the number of employees who completed product training
through the Diamond Council of America ( DCA ). Additionally, we have a well-developed buyer
training program to develop and train new buyers on merchandise negotiation techniques and Company
standards.

Current Year Capital 

On August 30, 2005, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved a stock repurchase
program pursuant to which we, from time to time, at management s discretion and in accordance with
our usual policies and applicable securities laws, could purchase up to an additional $100 million
of our common stock. During the first six months of fiscal year 2006, we repurchased 3.7 million
shares of common stock at an aggregate cost of approximately $100 million, which completed the
Board s authorization under the fiscal year 2006 program. We will reevaluate the possible
repurchase of additional shares after the upcoming Holiday season.

In 2007, we are investing our capital resources in new inventory assortments, new stores and
remodeling locations, and information technology initiatives to
ensure the long-term growth of our
brands.

Industry and Competition 

Jewelry retailing is highly competitive. We compete with a large number of independent
regional and local jewelry retailers, as well as with other national jewelry chains. We also
compete with other types of retailers who sell jewelry and gift items such as department stores,
discounters, direct mail suppliers, online retailers and television home shopping programs. Certain
of our competitors are non-specialty retailers, which are larger and have greater financial
resources than we do. The malls where most of our stores are located typically contain competing
national chains, independent jewelry stores and/or department store jewelry departments. We believe
that we are also competing for consumers  discretionary spending dollars and, therefore, compete
with retailers who offer merchandise other than jewelry or giftware. Therefore, we compete
primarily on the basis of our reputation for high quality products, brand recognition, store
location, distinctive and value-priced merchandise, personalized customer service and ability to
offer private label credit card programs to customers wishing to finance their purchases. Our
success is also dependent on our ability to both react to and create customer demand for specific
merchandise categories.

The U.S. and Canadian retail jewelry industry accounted for approximately $61 billion of sales
in 2005, according to publicly available data. We have a four percent market share
in the combined U.S. and Canadian markets. The largest jewelry retailer in the combined U.S.
and Canadian markets is believed to be Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Other significant segments of the fine jewelry industry
include national chain department stores (such as J.C. Penney Company, Inc. and Sears, Roebuck and
Co.), mass merchant discount stores (such as Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.), other general merchandise
stores and apparel and accessory stores. The remainder of the retail jewelry industry is comprised
primarily of catalog and mail order houses, direct-selling establishments, TV shopping networks
(such as QVC, Inc.) and online jewelers.

Historically, retail jewelry store sales have exhibited limited cyclicality. The  United
States Census Bureau  has recorded only three years of negative growth in specialty retail jewelry
store sales from 1984 to 2005.

We hold no material patents, licenses, franchises or concessions; however, our established
trademarks and trade names are essential to maintaining our competitive position in the retail
jewelry industry.

- 6 - 

Table of Contents   

Operations by Brand 

The following table presents total revenues, average sales per location and the number of
locations for each of our brands for the periods indicated.

- 7 - 

Table of Contents   

(a)  
       
      Includes revenues of $24.3 million, $49.8 million, and $48.1 million for fiscal years
2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, related to the Bailey Banks   Biddle store closings in the
second quarter of fiscal year 2006.  

(b)  
       
      Peoples (including Mappins) and Peoples II reflects all revenue from Canadian
operations, which constitutes all our foreign operations. Long-lived assets from foreign
operations totaled approximately $29.3 million, $27.6 million, and $23.2 million at July 31,
2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.  

(c)  
       
      Based on merchandise sales for locations open a full twelve months during the
applicable year.  

(d)  
       
      In fiscal year 2006, the total locations at the end of the period reflect 13 stores
that were moved from the Zales Outlet brand to the Zales brand.  

Business Segment Data 

Information concerning sales and segment income attributable to each of our business segments
is set forth in Item 6,  Selected Financial Data,  in Item 7,  Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  and in  Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements,  all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Store Operations 

Our stores are designed to differentiate our brands, create an attractive environment, make
shopping convenient and enjoyable, and maximize operating efficiencies, all of which should enhance
the customer experience. We focus on store layout, with particular focus on arrangement of display
cases, lighting, and choice of materials to optimize merchandise presentation. Promotional
displays are changed periodically to provide variety or to reflect seasonal events.

Each of our stores is led by a store manager who is responsible for store-level operations,
including overall store sales and personnel matters. Administrative matters, including purchasing,
distribution and payroll, are consolidated at the corporate level in an effort to maintain
efficiency and low operating costs at the store level. In addition to selling jewelry, each store
also offers standard warranties and return policies, and provides extended warranty coverage that
may be purchased at the customer s option. In order to facilitate sales, stores will hold
merchandise in layaway, generally requiring a deposit of not less than 20 percent of the purchase
price at the inception of the layaway transaction.

We have implemented inventory control systems, extensive security systems and loss prevention
procedures to maintain low inventory losses. We screen employment applicants and provide our store
personnel with training in loss prevention. Despite such precautions, we experience losses from
theft from time to time, and maintain insurance to cover such external losses.

We believe it is important to provide knowledgeable and responsive customer service and we
maintain a strong focus on connecting with the customer, both through advertising and in-store
communications and service. Our goal is to service the customer from the first sale by maintaining
a customer connection through client services. We have a centralized customer service call center
to more effectively address customer phone calls at lower aggregate cost.

We continue to focus on the level and frequency of our employee training programs,
particularly with store managers and key sales associates. We also provide training in sales
techniques for new employees, on-the-job training for all store personnel and management training
for store managers. Under the banner of Zale Corporation University, we offer training to employees
at every level of the organization.

Purchasing and Inventory 

We purchase the majority of our merchandise in finished form from a network of established
suppliers and manufacturers located primarily in the United States, Southeast Asia and Italy. All
purchasing is done through buying offices at our headquarters. As discussed in the section
 Business Initiatives and Strategy,  a centralized product sourcing organization also has been
established to coordinate the purchase and assembly of core diamond products such as solitaire
rings, earrings and pendants. Consignment inventory has historically consisted of test programs,
merchandise at higher price points or merchandise that otherwise does not warrant the risk of
ownership. Consignment merchandise can be returned to the vendor

- 8 - 

Table of Contents   

at any time or converted to owned
inventory if it meets certain productivity thresholds. We had approximately $175.1 million and
$150.9 million of consignment inventory on hand at July 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. During
fiscal years 2006 and 2005, we purchased approximately 22 percent of our finished merchandise from
our top five vendors, including more than six percent from one vendor in 2006. If our supply with
these top vendors were disrupted, particularly at certain critical times during the year, our sales
could be adversely affected in the short term until alternative supply arrangements could be
established. During fiscal year 2006, our direct sourcing organization accounted for approximately
six percent of our merchandise requirements.

In fiscal year 2006, we expanded our use of forward contracts for the purchase of our gold and
silver in order to reduce the effects of fluctuating commodity prices. We generally hedge certain
planned inventory purchases covering a designated period of no longer than twelve months and
amounts consistent with our identified exposure. The purpose of hedging activities is to minimize
the effect of commodity price movements on cash flows. All forward contracts are currently with
four financial institutions rated as investment grade by a major rating agency. No fees or up
front payments are required when using these commodity forwards. These contracts settle on a net
basis.

As a specialty retail jeweler, we could be affected by industry-wide fluctuations in the
prices of diamonds, gold, and other metals and stones. The supply and prices of diamonds in the
principal world markets are significantly influenced by a single entity, the Diamond Trading
Company, which has traditionally controlled the marketing of a substantial majority of the world s
supply of diamonds and sells rough diamonds to worldwide diamond cutters at prices determined in
its sole discretion. The availability of diamonds to the Diamond Trading Company and our suppliers
is to some extent dependent on the political situation in diamond-producing countries and on
continuation of prevailing supply and marketing arrangements for raw diamonds. Until alternate
sources are developed, any sustained interruption in the supply of diamonds could adversely affect
us and the retail jewelry industry as a whole. The inverse is true with respect to any oversupply
from diamond-producing countries, which could cause diamond prices to fall.

Within the jewelry industry there has been continued focus on  conflict diamonds,  which are
allegedly extracted from war-torn regions and sold by organizations to fund insurrection. Through
an international system of certification and legislative initiatives, the diamond trade has taken
steps to ensure
the exclusion from the supply chain of these diamonds, which represent a small fraction of the
world s supply. It is not expected that such efforts, if successful, will substantially affect the
supply of diamonds. However, in the near term, efforts by non-governmental organizations to
encourage legislative response combined with an upcoming movie about conflict diamonds scheduled
for national release in December 2006 could increase consumer awareness of the issue and could
affect consumer demand for diamonds.

Proprietary Credit 

Our private label credit card program helps facilitate the sale of merchandise to customers
who wish to finance their purchases rather than use cash or other payment sources. We offer
revolving and interest free credit programs under our private label credit card program.
Approximately 41 percent and 44 percent, respectively, of our U.S. total sales excluding Piercing
Pagoda, which does not offer proprietary credit, were generated by proprietary credit cards in
fiscal years 2006 and 2005. Our Canadian propriety credit card sales represented approximately 27
percent of Canadian total sales for fiscal year 2006 and approximately 29 percent of Canadian total
sales in fiscal year 2005.

In fiscal year 2006, we continued our proprietary credit offerings of same-as-cash, revolving
and interest free programs, all of which allowed our sales personnel to provide the customer
additional financing options.

In July 2000, we entered into a ten-year agreement with Citi whereby Citi issues private label
credit cards branded with appropriate trademarks, and provides financing for our customers to
purchase merchandise in exchange for payment by us of a merchant fee based on a percentage of each
credit card sale. The merchant fee varies according to the credit plan that is chosen by the
customer (i.e., Revolving, Interest Free, Same as Cash).

- 9 - 

Table of Contents   

Employees 

As of July 31, 2006, we had approximately 16,900 employees, approximately 10 percent of whom
were Canadian employees and less than one percent of whom were represented by unions. We usually
hire temporary employees during each Holiday season.

Seasonality 

As a specialty retailer of fine jewelry, our business is seasonal in nature, with our second
quarter, which includes the months of November through January, typically generating a
proportionally greater percentage of annual sales, earnings from operations and cash flow than the
other three quarters. We expect such seasonality to continue.

Information Technology 

Our technology systems provide information necessary for (i) store operations; (ii) sales and
margin management; (iii) inventory control; (iv) profitability monitoring by many measures
(merchandise category, buyer, store); (v) customer care; (vi) expense control programs; and (vii)
overall management decision support. Significant data processing systems include point-of-sale
reporting, purchase order management, replenishment, warehouse management, merchandise planning and
control, payroll, general ledger, sales audit, and accounts payable. Bar code ticketing and
scanning are used at all point-of-sale terminals to ensure accurate sales and margin data
compilation and to provide for inventory control monitoring. Information is made available online
to merchandising staff on a timely basis, thereby increasing the merchants  ability to be
responsive to changes in customer behavior. We are also improving the connectivity between stores
and our corporate headquarters to enhance operating efficiencies and speed of transmission.

Our information technology systems and processes allow management to monitor, review and
control operational performance on a daily, monthly, quarterly and annual basis for each store and
each transaction. Senior management can review and analyze activity by store, amount of sale, terms
of sale or employees who sell the merchandise.

We have a data center operations services agreement with a third party for the management of
our mainframe processing operations, client server systems, Local Area Network operations, Wide
Area Network management and e-commerce hosting. The agreement, effective August 1, 2005, requires
fixed payments totaling $30.0 million over an 84-month period plus a variable amount based on
usage, and extends through 2012. We believe that by outsourcing our data center operations, we are
focusing our resources on developing and enhancing the strategic initiatives discussed in the
Business and Strategy section.

We have historically upgraded, and expect to continue to upgrade, our information systems to
improve operations and support future growth. We estimate we will make capital expenditures of
approximately $8 million in fiscal year 2007 for enhancements to our information systems and
infrastructure.

Regulation 

Our operations are affected by numerous federal and state laws that impose disclosure and
other requirements upon the origination, servicing and enforcement of credit accounts and
limitations on the maximum amount of finance charges that may be charged by a credit provider. In
addition to our private label credit cards, credit to our customers is provided primarily through
bank cards such as Visa , MasterCard , and Discover . Any change in the regulation of credit which
would materially limit the availability of credit to our traditional customer base could adversely
affect our results of operations or financial condition.

We are subject to the jurisdiction of various state and other taxing authorities. From time
to time, these taxing authorities conduct reviews or audits of the Company.

The sale of insurance products by us is also highly regulated. State laws currently impose
disclosure obligations with respect to our sale of credit and other insurance. In addition, our
sale of insurance products

- 10 - 

Table of Contents   

in connection with our private label credit cards appears to be subject
to certain disclosure and other requirements under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999. Our and our
competitors  practices are also subject to review in the ordinary course of business by the Federal
Trade Commission and our and other retail companies  credit cards are subject to regulation by
state and federal banking regulators. We believe that we are currently in material compliance with
all applicable state and federal regulations.

Merchandise in the retail jewelry industry is frequently sold at a discount off the  regular 
or  original  price. We are subject to federal and state regulations requiring retailers offering
merchandise at promotional prices to offer the merchandise at regular or original prices for stated
periods of time. Additionally, we are subject to certain truth-in-advertising and various other
laws, including consumer protection regulations that regulate retailers generally and/or the
promotion and sale of jewelry in particular. We monitor changes in those laws and believe that we
are in material compliance with applicable laws with respect to such practices.

Available Information 

We provide links to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) and to the
SEC filings (Forms 3, 4 and 5) of our directors and executive officers under Section 16 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), free of charge, on our website at
 www.zalecorp.com , under the heading  SEC Filings  in the  Shareholder Information  section. These
links are automatically updated, so the filings also are available immediately after they are made
publicly available by the SEC. These filings also are available through the SEC s EDGAR system at
 www.sec.gov. 

Our certificate
of incorporation and bylaws as well as the charters for the compensation,
audit, nominating and corporate governance committees of our Board of Directors and the corporate
governance guidelines are available on our website at  www.zalecorp.com , under the heading
 Corporate and Social Responsibility. 

We have a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the  Code ). All of our directors, executive
officers and employees are subject to the Code. The Code is available on our web site at
 www.zalecorp.com , under the heading  Corporate and Social Responsibility-Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. 
Waivers of the Code for directors and executive officers will be disclosed in a SEC filing on Form
8-K.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

We make forward-looking statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other reports we
file with the SEC. In addition, members of our senior management make forward-looking statements
orally in presentations to analysts, investors, the media and others. Forward-looking statements
include statements regarding our objectives and expectations with respect to our financial plan,
sales and earnings, merchandising and marketing strategies, store opening, renovation, remodeling
and expansion, inventory management and performance, liquidity and cash flows, capital structure,
capital expenditures, development of our information technology and telecommunications plans and
related management information systems, e-commerce initiatives, human resource initiatives, impact
of the Bailey Banks   Biddle store closings and other statements regarding our plans and
objectives. In addition, the words  plans to,   anticipate,   estimate,   project,   intend, 
 expect,   believe,   forecast,   can,   could,   should,   will,   may,  or similar expressions
may identify forward-looking statements, but some of these statements may use other phrasing.
These forward-looking statements are intended to relay our expectations about the future, and speak
only as of the date they are made. We disclaim any obligation to update or revise publicly or
otherwise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future
circumstances.

Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors
could cause our actual results to differ materially from the anticipated or expected results
expressed in or suggested by these forward-looking statements.

- 11 - 

Table of Contents   

If the general economy performs poorly, discretionary spending on goods that are, or are perceived
to be  luxuries  may not grow and may even decrease. 

Jewelry purchases are discretionary and may be affected by adverse trends in the general
economy (and consumer perceptions of those trends). In addition, a number of other factors
affecting consumers such as employment, wages and salaries, business conditions, energy costs,
credit availability and taxation policies, for the economy as a whole and in regional and local
markets where we operate, can impact sales and earnings.

The concentration of a substantial portion of our sales in three relatively brief selling periods
means that our performance is more susceptible to disruptions. 

A substantial portion of our sales are derived from three selling periods   Holiday
(Christmas), Valentine s Day, and Mother s Day. Because of the briefness of these three selling
periods, the opportunity for sales to recover in the event of a disruption or other difficulty is
limited, and the impact of disruptions and difficulties can be significant. For instance, adverse
weather (such as a blizzard or hurricane), a significant interruption in the receipt of products
(whether because of vendor or other product problems), or a sharp decline in mall traffic occurring
during one of these selling periods could materially impact sales for the affected period and,
because of the importance of each of these selling periods, commensurately impact overall sales and
earnings.

Most of our sales are of products that include diamonds, precious metals and other commodities, and
fluctuations in the availability and pricing of commodities could impact our ability to obtain and
produce products at favorable prices. 

The supply and price of diamonds in the principal world market are significantly influenced by
a single entity, which has traditionally controlled the marketing of a substantial majority of the
world s supply of diamonds and sells rough diamonds to worldwide diamond cutters at prices
determined in its sole discretion. The availability of diamonds also is somewhat dependent on the
political conditions in diamond-producing countries and on the continuing supply of raw diamonds.
Any sustained interruption in this supply could have an adverse affect on our business. In the
near term, efforts by non-governmental organizations to encourage legislative response combined
with a movie about conflict diamonds scheduled for national release in December 2006 could increase
consumer awareness of the issue and could affect consumer demand for diamonds.

We are also affected by fluctuations in the price of diamonds, gold and other commodities. We
historically have engaged in hedging against fluctuations in the cost of gold. A significant change
in prices of key commodities could adversely affect our business by reducing operating margins or
decreasing consumer demand if retail prices are increased significantly.

Our sales are dependent upon mall traffic. 

Our stores, kiosks, and carts are located primarily in shopping malls throughout the U.S.,
Canada and Puerto Rico. Our success is in part dependent upon the continued popularity of malls as
a shopping destination and the ability of malls, their tenants and other mall attractions to
generate customer traffic. Accordingly, a significant decline in this popularity, especially if it
is sustained, would substantially harm our sales and earnings.

We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry. 

The retail jewelry business is highly competitive and fragmented, and we compete with
nationally recognized jewelry chains as well as a large number of independent regional and local
jewelry retailers and other types of retailers who sell jewelry and gift items, such as department
stores, mass merchandisers and catalog showrooms. We also are beginning to compete with Internet
sellers of jewelry. Because of the breadth and depth of this competition, we are constantly under
competitive pressure that both constrains pricing and requires extensive merchandising efforts in
order for us to remain competitive.

- 12 - 

Table of Contents   

Any failure by us to manage our inventory effectively will negatively impact sales and earnings. 

We purchase much of our inventory well in advance of each selling period. In the event we
misjudge consumer preferences or demand, we will experience lower sales than expected and will have
excessive inventory that may need to be written down in value or sold at prices that are less than
expected.

Because of our dependence upon a small concentrated number of landlords for a substantial number of
our locations, any significant erosion of our relationships with those landlords would negatively
impact our ability to obtain and retain store locations. 

We are significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with
capital investment and lease costs that allow us to earn a reasonable return on our locations. We
depend on the leasing market and our landlords to determine supply, demand, lease cost and
operating costs and conditions. We cannot be certain as to when or whether desirable store
locations will become or remain available to us at reasonable lease and operating costs. Further,
several large landlords dominate the ownership of prime malls, and we are dependent upon
maintaining good relations with those landlords in order to obtain and retain store locations on
optimal terms. From time to time, we do have disagreements with our landlords and a significant
disagreement, if not resolved, could have an adverse impact on our business.

Changes in regulatory requirements relating to the extension of credit may increase the cost of or
adversely affect our operations. 

Our operations are affected by numerous U.S. and Canadian federal and state or provincial laws
that impose disclosure and other requirements upon the origination, servicing and enforcement of
credit accounts and limitations on the maximum aggregate amount of finance charges that may be
charged by a credit provider. Any change in the regulation of credit (including changes in the
application of current laws) which would materially limit the availability of credit to our
customer base could adversely affect our sales and earnings.

Any disruption in, or changes to, our private label credit card arrangement with Citi may adversely
affect our ability to provide consumer credit and write credit insurance. 

Our agreement with Citi, through which Citi provides financing for our customers to purchase
merchandise through private label credit cards, enhances our ability to provide consumer credit and
write credit insurance. Any disruption in, or change to, this agreement could have an adverse
effect on our business, especially to the extent that it materially limits credit availability to
our customer base.

Acquisitions involve special risk, including the possibility that we may be unable to integrate new
acquisitions into our existing operations. 

We have made significant acquisitions in the past and may in the future make additional
acquisitions. Difficulty integrating an acquisition into our existing infrastructure and
operations may cause us to fail to realize expected return on investment through revenue increases,
cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and customer reach, and/or other
projected benefits from the acquisition. Additionally, attractive acquisition opportunities may
not be available at the time or pursuant to terms acceptable to us.

We recently appointed a new CEO, who may initiate strategies or other changes in store levels,
expenses, staffing, and related matters. 

Mary E. Burton was named Acting Chief Executive Officer in January 2006 and President and
Chief Executive Officer in July 2006. As discussed under  Business Initiatives and Strategy,  we
have a number of strategy initiatives and expect Ms. Burton to initiate others. Each of these
initiatives will require the commitment of capital and human resources. These initiatives may or
may not generate the expected results.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

Not applicable.

- 13 - 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 

We lease a 430,000 square foot corporate headquarters facility, which lease extends through
2018. The facility is located in Las Colinas, a planned business development in Irving, Texas, near
the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport. We lease approximately 40,000 square feet of
warehouse space that in June 2003 was subleased to a third party through the remainder of the lease
term, which extends through March 2009. We expanded our Canadian distribution and production
operations in July 2005 by leasing a 26,280 square foot facility in Toronto, Ontario with a lease
term through November 2014. We also lease a 20,000 square foot distribution and warehousing
facility in Irving, Texas with a lease term through June 2008 that serves as the Piercing Pagoda
distribution center.

We
rent our store retail space under leases that generally range in terms from five to ten
years and may contain minimum rent escalation clauses, while kiosk leases generally range from
three to five years and carts from 12 to 18 months. Most of the store leases provide for the
payment of base rentals plus real estate taxes, insurance, common area maintenance fees and
merchants association dues, as well as percentage rents based on the stores  gross sales.

We lease 15 percent of our store and kiosk locations from each of Simon Property Group and
General Growth Management, Inc. Otherwise, we have no relationship with any lessor relating to 10
percent or more of our store and kiosk locations.

The following table indicates the expiration dates of the current terms of our leases as of
July 31, 2006:

(1) 
       
     Other includes warehouse, distribution, storage facilities, and four locations that are
either not yet opened, or are locations that have been closed but are still under lease
obligations. 

Management believes substantially all of the store leases expiring in fiscal year 2007 that it
wishes to renew (including leases which expired earlier and are currently being operated under
month-to-month extensions) will be renewed. Generally, although rents continue to increase, we
otherwise expect leases will be renewed on terms not materially less favorable to us than the terms
of the expiring or expired leases. Management believes our facilities are suitable and adequate
for our business as presently conducted.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

We are involved in various legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of
business. Management believes that such litigation and claims will be resolved without any material
adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.

SEC Investigation.   On April 10, 2006, we announced that the SEC had initiated a non-public
investigation into various accounting and other matters related to our business, including
accounting for Extended Service Agreements ( ESAs ), leases and accrued payroll. Subpoenas issued
in connection with the investigation requested materials relating to these accounting matters as
well as to executive compensation and severance, earnings guidance, stock trading, and the timing
of certain vendor payments. On September 21, 2006, the staff of the SEC notified us that the
investigation of Zale Corporation had been terminated with no enforcement action being recommended.

Securities
and ERISA Litigation.   We are named as a defendant in six lawsuits arising, in
general, from the matters that the SEC was investigating as described above. The lawsuits are: (a)
 Levy v. Zale Corp.,  No. 1:06-CV-05464, filed July 19, 2006, U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York, (b)

- 14 - 

Table of Contents   

Agoos v. Zale Corp.,  No. 1:06-CV-5877, filed August 3, 2006, U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York, (c)  Pipefitters Local No. 636 Defined Benefit
Plan v. Zale Corp.,  No. 3:06-CV-1470, filed August 15, 2006, U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Texas, (d)  Chester v. Zale Corp.,  No. 1:06-CV-06387, filed August 23, 2006, U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York, (e)  Salvato v. Zale Corp.,  No. 3-06 CV
1124-D, filed June 26, 2006, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas, and (f)
 Connell v. Zale Corp.,  No. 06 CV 5995, filed August 7, 2006, U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York. Mary L. Fort , Mark R. Lenz, and Sue E. Gove are named as defendants in all
six lawsuits. Cynthia T. Gordon is also named as a defendant in the
 Levy, Agoos,  and  Chester 
lawsuits. Richard C. Marcus, J. Glen Adams, Mary E. Burton, John B. Lowe, Jr., Thomas C. Shull,
David M. Szymanski, and the Zale Plan Committee also are named as defendants in the  Salvato  and
 Connell  lawsuits.

All six lawsuits are purported class actions. In the  Levy, Agoos, Pipefitters and Chester 
lawsuits the plaintiffs allege various violations of securities laws based upon our public
disclosures. In the  Salvato  and  Connell  lawsuits the plaintiffs allege various violations of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) based upon the investment by the Zale
Corporation Savings and Investment Plan in Company stock. The plaintiffs in all six lawsuits
request unspecified compensatory damages and costs and, in the  Salvato  and  Connell  lawsuits,
injunctive relief and attorneys  fees. All six lawsuits are in preliminary stages. We intend to
vigorously contest all six lawsuits.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

No matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders during the quarter ended July 31,
2006.

- 15 - 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 4A. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND KEY EMPLOYEES OF THE REGISTRANT 

The following individuals serve as our executive officers or are other key employees of the
Company. Officers are elected by the Board of Directors annually, each to serve until his or her
successor is elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier resignation, removal from office or
death.

Name  
       
      Age  
       
      Position  

Executive Officers: 

Mary E. Burton

54 

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 

George R. Mihalko, Jr.

51 

Acting Chief Administrative Officer, Acting Chief Financial
Officer and Director 

John A. Zimmermann

47 

Group President and President, Zale North America 

Gilbert P. Hollander

53 

Group Senior Vice President and President, Corporate
Sourcing/Piercing Pagoda 

Frank C. Mroczka

48 

Senior Vice President and President, Gordon s Jewelers 

Key Employees: 

Mary Ann Doran

50 

Senior Vice President, Human Resources 

Charles E. Fieramosca

58 

Senior Vice President and President, Bailey Banks   Biddle Fine
Jewelers 

Cynthia T. Gordon

42 

Senior Vice President, Controller 

Steven Larkin

48 

Senior Vice President, E-Commerce 

Stephen C. Massanelli

50 

Senior Vice President, Real Estate 

Susann C. Mayo

54 

Senior Vice President, Supply Chain 

Hilary Molay

52 

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 

Nancy O. Skinner

56 

Senior Vice President and President, Zales the Diamond Store
Outlet 

George J. Slicho

57 

Senior Vice President, Loss Prevention 

Mark A. Stone

48 

Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer 

Executive Officers 

The following is a brief description of the business experience of the Company s executive
officers for at least the past five years.

Ms. Mary E. Burton  was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer effective July 24,
2006. Ms. Burton served as Acting Chief Executive Officer from
January 31, 2006 through July 23,
2006. Ms. Burton has served as a director of the Company since August 1, 2003. Since July 1992,
Ms. Burton has served as Chief Executive Officer of BB Capital, Inc., retail advisory and
management services company. Ms. Burton was Chief Executive Officer of the Cosmetic Center, Inc.,
a chain of 250 specialty retail stores, from June 1998 to April 1999. Prior to occupying that
position, she served as Chief Executive Officer of PIP Printing from July 1991 to July 1992, and as
Chief Executive Officer of Supercuts, Inc. from September 1987 to June 1991. She is also a
director of Staples, Inc., Rent-A-Center, Inc., and Aeropostale, Inc.

Mr. George R. Mihalko, Jr.  was elected to the Company s Board of Directors in May 2006 and
agreed to serve as Acting Chief Administrative Officer and Acting Chief Financial Officer. Prior
to joining the Company, Mr. Mihalko served as Vice Chairman, Chief Administrative Officer and Chief
Financial Officer of The Sports Authority, Inc .  from September 1999 through August 2003. From
August 2003 through May 2006, Mr. Mihalko has been a private investor.

- 16 - 

Table of Contents   

Mr. John A. Zimmermann  was appointed Group Senior Vice President and President, Zale North
America in February 2006. He was promoted to Group President in August 2006. Prior to this
appointment, Mr. Zimmermann held the position of President, Peoples Jewellers from May 2001 through
February 17, 2006. Mr. Zimmermann joined the Company in May of 2001 after serving as Senior Vice
President for Smartkids.com from June 1998 through May 2000, and Senior Vice President of The Big
Party from November 1996 through May 1998. Mr. Zimmermann started his retail career at John
Wanamaker and went on to work at additional divisions of Carter Hawley Hall as well as Federated.

Mr. Gilbert P. Hollander  was promoted to President, Corporate Sourcing/Piercing Pagoda in May
2006, and was given the additional title of Group Senior Vice President in August 2006. From
January 2005 to August 2006, he served as Vice President, Piercing Pagoda. Prior to and up until
that appointment, Mr. Hollander served as Vice President of Divisional Merchandise for Piercing
Pagoda, to which he was appointed in August 2003. Mr. Hollander served as Senior Vice President of
Merchandising for Piercing Pagoda from February 2000 to August 2003. Prior to February 2000, Mr.
Hollander held various management positions within Piercing Pagoda beginning in May of 1997 when
Piercing Pagoda acquired Silver and Gold Connection, where he was a part owner.

Mr. Frank C. Mroczka  was promoted to Senior Vice President and President, Gordon s Jewelers in
April 2003. Mr. Mroczka was previously the Senior Vice President of Store Operations for Gordon s
Jewelers, to which he was appointed in 1997. In 1993, Mr. Mroczka was promoted to Director of
Stores for Gordon s West Region. Mr. Mroczka joined the Company in 1983 and served in numerous
positions until his appointment to Senior Vice President in 1997.

Mr. Rodney Carter  was appointed Chief Financial Officer and Group Senior Vice President,
effective October 16, 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Carter was the Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., and prior to that position, was the
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for CEC Entertainment, Inc.

Key Employees 

Ms. Mary Ann Doran  was promoted to Senior Vice President of Human Resources in February 2005.
Ms. Doran previously held the position of Vice President of Organizational Development  
Recruitment, to which she was appointed in August 1997. Ms. Doran began her career with the
Company in October 1996 as Vice President, Personnel Development   Staffing. Prior to joining the
Company, Ms. Doran held positions with Kenzer Corporation, Bombay Company and the Jordan Marsh
Company, where she served as Vice President of Human Resources.

Mr. Charles E. Fieramosca  joined the Company in April 2001 as Senior Vice President and
President of Bailey Banks   Biddle Fine Jewelers. In the ten years prior to joining the Company,
Mr. Fieramosca founded and served as the CEO of Ascend Consulting, a product and brand development
company. Prior to his role at Ascend Consulting, Mr. Fieramosca held various positions with Jones
New York Menswear, BASCO All American Sportswear, and Macy s.

Ms. Cynthia T. Gordon  was promoted to Senior Vice President, Controller in February 2003. From
April 2001 to July 2003, Ms. Gordon served as Vice President of Corporate Planning. From 1998 to
2001, Ms. Gordon served as Senior Director of Investor Relations. Ms. Gordon joined the Company in
October 1994 as the Director of Corporate Planning. Prior to joining the Company in 1994, Ms.
Gordon served in various positions, including Director of Investor Relations and External Reporting
for A Pea in the Pod, a maternity wear retailer, and in the audit division of Ernst   Young LLP in
Dallas, Texas.

Mr. Steven Larkin  joined the Company in January 2006 as Senior Vice President, E-Commerce.
Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Larkin held positions of Vice President, Merchandising for
Benchmark Brands (2003   2004) and Shop NBC (2001   2002). Mr. Larkin also held the position of
Vice President, E-Commerce for Broadband Sports.com from 2000 through 2001, and Chief Merchandising
Officer at The Fingerhut Corporation from 1995 through 2000.

Mr. Stephen C. Massanelli  was appointed Senior Vice President, Real Estate in May 2004. Mr.
Massanelli joined the Company in June 1997 as Senior Vice President, Treasurer. From 1993 to 1997,
Mr. Massanelli was a principal and member of the Board of Directors of The Treadstone Group, Inc.,
a private

- 17 - 

Table of Contents   

merchant banking organization in Dallas. Prior to 1993, Mr. Massanelli served in various
financial roles at AMRESCO, Inc. and NationsBank of Texas, predecessor to Bank of America.

Ms. Susann C. Mayo  joined the Company in October 2005 as Senior Vice President, Supply Chain.
Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Mayo was the Vice President of Logistics   Distribution for The
Bombay Company from 2001 through February 2005. Prior to 2001, Ms. Mayo held various positions at
Sears, Roebuck   Co. from 1973 through 2001.

Ms. Hilary Molay  was promoted to Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the
Company in September 2005. Prior to her most recent promotion, Ms. Molay served as Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary of the Company from August 2002 through August 2005. Ms. Molay also
serves as Secretary to the Zale Board of Directors. Previously, Ms. Molay served as Director,
Senior Attorney for Zale Corporation when she joined the Company in February 2000. Prior to working
for the Company, Ms. Molay served in various legal positions, including Senior Attorney for J. C.
Penney Company, Inc., Trial Attorney, U.S. Department of Justice, and Judicial Law Clerk, Court of
Appeals of Maryland.

Ms. Nancy O. Skinner  was promoted to Senior Vice President and President of Zales Outlet in
August 2003. Prior to her promotion, Ms. Skinner served as Vice President and Senior Vice President
of Merchandising, Zales Outlet from April 2001 to July 2003. From May 1998 to April 2001, Ms.
Skinner was a Diamond Buyer for Zales Outlet. Ms. Skinner joined the Company in April 1984 and has
held numerous senior buying positions in Diamond Park Fine Jewelers, Gordon s Jewelers, and Bailey
Banks   Biddle Fine Jewelers. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Skinner held various merchandising
positions with Gordon s Jewelry Corporation which merged with the Company in 1989.

Mr. George J. Slicho  was promoted to the position of Senior Vice President, Loss Prevention in
November 2000. Mr. Slicho began his career with the Company in March 1991 as Vice President of Loss
Prevention. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Slicho held various positions in corporate security,
including Vice President of Loss Prevention and Audit for P.A. Bergner   Company. In addition, Mr.
Slicho served as a special agent in various field offices of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Mr. Mark A. Stone  was promoted to Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer in May
2006. From August 2003 through April 2006, Mr. Stone held the position of Vice President, Planning
and Analysis. From March 2002 through July 2003, Mr. Stone held the position of Senior Director,
Pagoda Distribution. Mr. Stone joined the Company in January 1995 and held various positions
within the Information Technology group until February 2002. Prior to joining the Company, Mr.
Stone was Director of Financial Operations for the Resolution Trust Corporation from January 1990
to January 1995.

- 18 - 

Table of Contents   

PART II 

ITEM 5.  
       
      MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol  ZLC.  The
following table sets forth the high and low sale prices as reported on the NYSE for the common
stock for each fiscal quarter during the two most recent fiscal years.

As of September 22, 2006, the outstanding shares of common stock were held by approximately
700 holders of record. We have not paid dividends on the common stock since its initial issuance on
July 30, 1993, and do not anticipate paying dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable
future. In addition, our long-term debt limits our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our
common stock if borrowing availability under our U.S. $500 million revolving credit facility is
less than $75 million. At July 31, 2006, we had borrowing availability under the revolving credit
agreement of approximately $313.9 million. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources  and  Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements   Long Term Debt. 

- 19 - 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

The following selected financial data is qualified in its entirety by our Consolidated
Financial Statements (and the related Notes thereto) contained elsewhere in this Form 10-K and
should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.  The income statement and balance sheet data for each of the fiscal years
ended July 31, 2006, 2005, 2004, 2003, and 2002 has been derived from our audited Consolidated
Financial Statements.

- 20 - 

Table of Contents   

(d) 
       
     Income taxes in fiscal year 2006 decreased primarily due to lower earnings, tax benefits
related to the AJCA repatriation and reduced tax rates in Canada. 

(e) 
       
     Fiscal year 2002 reflects a change in accounting principle for the write-off of the excess of
revalued net assets over stockholders equity (negative goodwill). 

(f) 
       
     Outstanding share amounts have been adjusted to give retroactive effect to a two-for-one
stock split completed on June 8, 2004. 

- 21 - 

Table of Contents   

Segment Data  

Selected Financial Data by Segment 

NOTE: 
       
     The segments are not organized based on product differences or geographic areas
and, accordingly, it is not practicable to report revenues based on such
organization. 

- 22 - 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7.  
       
      MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

With respect to forward-looking statements made in this Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations see  Item 1A   Risk Factors. 

Executive Overview 

We are North America s largest specialty retailer of fine jewelry. At July 31, 2006, we
operated 1,456 specialty retail jewelry stores and 817 kiosks and 76 carts.

During fiscal year 2006, there were significant changes in our management team. Effective
January 31, 2006, President and Chief Executive Officer Mary L. Fort  resigned and Mary E. Burton,
a member of our Board of Directors, was appointed Acting Chief Executive Officer. Subsequently,
Ms. Burton was permanently appointed as President and Chief Executive Officer. She remains as a
director of the Company.

Effective February 16, 2006, John Zimmermann was appointed President of Zale North America,
responsible for the Zales Jewelers, Peoples Jewellers, Mappins Jewellers, and Peoples II brands.
Mr. Zimmermann had formerly been President of Zale Canada which included the Peoples Jewellers and
Mappins Jewellers brands.

On March 23, 2006, Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President Sue E. Gove resigned.

On May 5, 2006, Chief Financial Officer and Group Senior Vice President Mark Lenz was placed
on administrative leave. This decision was made after discussions with our outside auditors
concerning Mr. Lenz s failure to timely disclose in conversations with the auditors that vendor
payments scheduled to be made during the last two weeks of our fiscal year ended July 31, 2005 were
delayed until the first week of August 2005. We believe that both cash and accounts payable were
properly reflected on the balance sheet. Mr. Lenz s employment ended on July 31, 2006 upon the
expiration of his employment contract.

On May 5, 2006, George R. Mihalko, Jr. was elected as a director of the Company and agreed to
serve as Acting Chief Administrative Officer and Acting Chief Financial Officer.

Rodney Carter was appointed Chief Financial Officer and Group Senior Vice President, effective
October 16, 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Carter was the Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., and prior to that position, was the Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for CEC Entertainment, Inc.

In making these executive changes, we reiterated our commitment to long-term growth through
our core strategies of increasing market share, increasing margin through direct sourcing and
internal production of diamond product and making investments in our people.

On April 10, 2006, we announced that the SEC had initiated a non-public investigation into
various accounting and other matters related to our business, including accounting for ESAs, leases
and accrued payroll. Subpoenas issued in connection with the investigation requested materials
relating to these accounting matters as well as to executive compensation and severance, earnings
guidance, stock trading,
and the timing of certain vendor payments. On September 21, 2006, the staff of the SEC
notified us that the investigation of Zale Corporation had been terminated with no enforcement
action being recommended.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, we recorded an after tax special charge primarily
consisting of (1) $16.8 million to accelerate inventory markdowns on discontinued items, (2) $3.3
million related to the termination of an information technology initiative not consistent with the
needs of our business, and (3) a $2.9 million asset impairment related to certain test stores.
Separately, we recorded a $1.5 million after tax charge for accrued percentage rent related to
prior periods and a $1.9 million tax charge primarily related to Canadian earnings.

- 23 - 

Table of Contents   

Other events for fiscal year 2006 include:

Expanded internally purchased and assembled product for Zales Jewelers, Gordon s
Jewelers, Peoples Jewellers, and Zales the Diamond Store Outlet 

Implemented new Human Resources management solution, including payroll services solution 

Completed test/pilot of new point of sale system 

Closed 32 Bailey Banks   Biddle stores that did not fit the business model 

Key Objectives for fiscal year 2007 include:

Increase market share through improved assortment and execution in the Zales brand 

Improve margin by expanding direct sourcing of diamonds for the Zales brand as well as
Peoples, Gordon s, and Outlet 

Retain and attract key employees through competitive compensation, training, resources,
and support 

Our business is divided into three business segments: Fine Jewelry, Kiosk Jewelry, and All
Other.

The Fine Jewelry segment operates under four business units and six primary brands, each
targeted to reach a distinct customer as described below:

Zales Jewelers (including  zales.com ), our national brand in the U.S., provides
moderately priced jewelry to a broad range of customers 

Zales Outlet caters to the slightly higher-income female self purchaser in malls and
neighborhood power centers 

Gordon s Jewelers is a regional jeweler focusing on customer driven assortments 

Bailey Banks   Biddle Fine Jewelers (including  baileybanksandbiddle.com)  operates
jewelry stores that are considered among the finest luxury jewelry stores in their
markets, offering designer jewelry and prestige watches to attract more affluent customers 

Peoples Jewellers and Mappins Jewellers are two of the most recognized brand names in
Canada, providing moderately priced jewelry to a wide variety of Canadian customers 

The Kiosk Jewelry segment reaches the opening price point select jewelry customer through
mall-based kiosks operated primarily under the name Piercing Pagoda in the U.S., and carts
primarily under the name Peoples II in Canada.

See  Part I. Item 1. Business  for more detailed information regarding our business.

Results of Operations 

The following table sets forth certain financial information from our audited consolidated
statements of operations expressed as a percentage of total revenues and should be read in
conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included elsewhere in this
Form 10-K.

- 24 - 

Table of Contents   

(a) 
       
     The cost of sales increase is primarily due to a special charge of 110 basis points
related to the accelerated markdown of discontinued merchandise and a 10 basis points charge
related to closing certain Bailey Banks   Biddle stores. 

(b) 
       
     The increase in SG A in fiscal year 2006 is primarily related to executive severance costs
(50 basis points), Bailey Banks   Biddle store closings (120 basis points), adoption of SFAS
123(R) (20 basis points), termination of an IT initiative (20 basis points), and asset
impairment charges (20 basis points), and incremental store operating costs. 

(c) 
       
     Income taxes decreased in fiscal year 2006 primarily due to tax benefits related to the
repatriation of Canadian revenues pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, and
Canadian earnings. 

Bailey Banks   Biddle Store Closings.   During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, we
closed 32 Bailey Banks   Biddle stores to improve performance and profitability. We incurred a
total of $21.2 million or $0.43 per diluted share after taxes, related to the Bailey Banks   Biddle
closings for fiscal year 2006.

American
Jobs Creation Act.   On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act (the  AJCA )
was signed into law. The AJCA includes, among other provisions, a special one-time deduction for 85
percent of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated to the U.S. from foreign operations, as
defined in the AJCA. We have a Canadian subsidiary for which we elected to apply this provision to
qualifying earnings repatriations in fiscal year 2006. In January 2006, we executed a Domestic
Repatriation Plan under the provision and repatriated $47.6 million, realizing an income tax
benefit of $11.9 million partially offset by a liability of $5.1 million related to management s
decision not to elect APB 23 for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2006. The net income tax benefit
realized was $6.8 million, or $0.14 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006.

Year Ended July 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended July 31, 2005 

Total Revenues   .  Total revenues for fiscal year 2006 were $2.439 billion, an increase of
approximately 2.3 percent over total revenues of $2.383 billion for the same period in the prior
fiscal year. Total revenues include $24.3 million this year and $49.8 million last year from the 32
Bailey Banks   Biddle stores that we closed during the second quarter. Excluding these stores,
total revenues were $2.415 billion, compared to $2.333 billion last year, an increase of 3.5
percent.

Our comparable store sales increased approximately 1.6 percent in fiscal year 2006, compared
to the prior fiscal year. Comparable store sales exclude amortization of ESAs and insurance
premiums related to credit insurance policies sold to customers who purchase merchandise under our
proprietary credit program, and include sales for those stores beginning their thirteenth full
month of operation. The results of stores that have been relocated, renovated or refurbished are
included in the calculation of comparable store sales on the same basis as other stores. However,
stores closed for more than 90 days due to unforeseen events (hurricanes, etc.) are excluded from
the calculation of comparable store sales.

With the exception of the Piercing Pagoda and Zales Jewelers brands, all our brands achieved
positive comparable store sales results. While the Zales brand had an overall decrease in
comparable store sales, the brand did benefit from an improved assortment of diamond solitaires and
diamond fashion categories during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. In connection with this
shift in assortment, the Zales brand increased inventory by approximately $24 million in fiscal
year 2006, compared to the prior fiscal year. Piercing Pagoda continues to be impacted by a
decline in sales of the Italian charms that have not been fully offset by increases in other
categories.

The Fine Jewelry segment contributed $2.149 billion of revenues in the fiscal year 2006,
compared to $2.089 billion in fiscal year 2005, which represents an increase of 2.9 percent.
Excluding the revenues from the closed Bailey Banks   Biddle stores, the Fine Jewelry segment
contributed $2.125 billion and
$2.039 billion in revenues for fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively, an increase of
approximately 4.2 percent. In the Kiosk Jewelry segment, revenues decreased to $277 million from
$281 million in fiscal year 2005, a decrease of 1.4 percent. All Other segment operations provided
approximately $13.1 million in revenues compared to $12.9 million in fiscal year 2005, representing
an increase of 1.6 percent from the prior year.

- 25 - 

Table of Contents   

During fiscal year 2006, we opened 59 stores in the Fine Jewelry segment and 54 kiosks in the
Kiosk Jewelry segment. In addition, we closed 67 stores in the Fine Jewelry segment, (including
the 32 Bailey Banks   Biddle store closings), and 42 locations in the Kiosk Jewelry segment during
the current period.

Cost of Sales.   Cost of sales includes cost of merchandise sold, as well as receiving and
distribution costs. Cost of sales as a percentage of revenues was 49.8 percent for fiscal year
2006, an increase of 120 basis points over last fiscal year. The increase in cost of sales is
primarily due to a special charge of 110 basis points intended to accelerate the sell-through of
discontinued merchandise and an inventory charge of 10 basis points related to closing certain
Bailey Banks   Biddle stores.

We also experienced margin improvements driven by directly sourced goods of approximately 40
basis points and more productive use of trade-in product resulting in approximately 20 basis points
improvement. These improvements were offset by increased promotions in the Bailey Banks   Biddle
closed stores and the markdowns to sell through discontinued items in Zales.

We recorded a LIFO charge of $5.8 million in fiscal year 2006 compared to $3.5 million in
fiscal year 2005. We estimate that the portion of the special charge on approximately $90 million
of inventory reduced the LIFO charge by approximately $2 million due to the liquidation of the
inventory.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses   .  Included in selling, general and administrative
expenses ( SG A ) are store operating, advertising, buying and general corporate overhead expenses.
SG A increased 3.4 percentage points to 44.6 percent of revenues for the current fiscal year, from
41.2 percent of revenues for the prior year. The increase in SG A of 340 basis points was
primarily the result of Bailey Banks   Biddle store closing costs (120 basis points), executive
severance (50 basis points), adoption of SFAS 123(R) (20 basis points), termination of an IT
initiative that did not meet the needs of our business (20 basis points), asset impairment charges
primarily related to certain test stores (20 basis points), and incremental store operating costs
offset by a reduction in proprietary credit costs due to a shift to more profitable or less costly
credit program offerings.

Depreciation and Amortization Expense   .  Depreciation and Amortization Expense was $59.8
million in fiscal year 2006, or 2.5 percent of revenues, remaining flat to the prior fiscal year.

Settlement of Retirement Plan Obligations   .  The settlement of certain retirement plan
obligations resulted in a benefit of $13.4 million before taxes in fiscal year 2006.

Derivatives
(Gains)/Losses.   We recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or
liabilities in the statement of financial position measured at fair value. Any changes in the fair
value of derivative instruments are reported in derivative (gains)/losses on the consolidated
statements of operations. The fair market value of these instruments is subject to the changes in
the underlying commodity. The (increase)/decrease in derivatives
(gain)/loss is due to the
(increase)/decrease in fair value of the derivative instruments. In fiscal year 2006, we
recognized a loss before taxes in the amount of approximately $1.7 million, representing less than
one percent of revenues.

In connection with the audit of our financial statements, we determined that our forward
contracts for the purchase of gold and silver to hedge fluctuations in inventory purchase costs did
not meet the current interpretation of SFAS 133 for hedge treatment with regard to contemporaneous
documentation of hedge effectiveness and effectiveness testing. Accordingly, all changes in the
fair value of these instruments currently are recognized in our statement of operations, along with
the related tax effects. Our failure to have in place a process for generating the documentation
contemporaneously with the establishment of the derivative position was a material weakness in our
internal control over financial reporting and our
disclosure controls. Subsequent to the end of our most recent fiscal quarter, we implemented
changes intended to remediate the material weakness discussed above.

Interest Expense   .  Interest expense as a percent of revenues for the 2006 fiscal year was 0.5
percent compared to 0.3 percent in the prior fiscal year. The increase in interest expense was the
result of an increase in the weighted average effective interest rate from 3.80 percent last year
to 5.80 percent this year, and an increase in average borrowings under the Revolving Credit
Agreement.

- 26 - 

Table of Contents   

Income Taxes   .  The effective tax rate for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2006, and 2005 was
23.3 percent and 37.2 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was due to tax
benefits associated with the repatriation under the American Jobs Creation Act (the  AJCA )
(described below), the tax rate on Canadian earnings, and the release of certain tax reserves upon
resolution of certain state and local audits. Excluding the impact of the AJCA and the impact of
Canadian changes on previously reserved items, the effective tax rate
for fiscal year 2006 was 35.7 percent.

On October 22,
2004, the AJCA was signed into law. The AJCA includes, among other provisions,
a special one-time deduction for 85 percent of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated to the
U.S. from foreign operations, as defined in the AJCA. We have a
Canadian subsidiary for which we
elected to apply this provision to qualifying earnings repatriations in fiscal year 2006. In
January 2006, we executed a Domestic Repatriation Plan under the provision and repatriated $47.6
million, realizing an income tax benefit of $11.9 million partially offset by a liability of $5.1
million related to management s decision not to elect APB 23 for the fiscal year ending July 31,
2006. The net income tax benefit realized was $6.8 million, or $0.14 per diluted share for the
fiscal year ended July 31, 2006.

Year Ended July 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended July 31, 2004 

Total Revenues   .  Total revenues for fiscal year 2005 were $2.383 billion, an increase of 3.4
percent over total revenues for the prior fiscal year. The overall increase in revenues during the
fiscal year was partially offset by weaker revenues in the Holiday period. In addition, we
estimate that revenues were adversely impacted by $6.5 to $7.0 million due to the hurricanes in
Florida, Puerto Rico, and Alabama in August and September 2004.

Our comparable store sales increased 0.3 percent for fiscal year 2005 as compared to the prior
fiscal year. Comparable store sales exclude amortization of ESAs and include sales for those stores
beginning their thirteenth full month of operation. The results of stores that have been
relocated, renovated, or refurbished are included in the calculation of comparable store sales on
the same basis as other stores.

For the fiscal year 2005, all brands had flat to positive comparable store sales with the
exception of the Zales brand, which had negative comparable sales primarily due to poor performance
over the Holiday period.

The Fine Jewelry brands contributed $2.089 billion of revenues in fiscal year 2005, compared
to $2.022 billion in fiscal year 2004, which represented an increase of 3.3 percent. Total revenues
included $281 million in the Kiosk Jewelry segment compared to $270 million in fiscal year 2004, an
increase of 4.2 percent over the prior year, which was primarily due to the expansion of this
segment into Canada. All Other segment operations provided $12.9 million in revenues, representing
an increase of 2.7 percent from the prior fiscal year.

During fiscal year 2005, we opened 61 stores and closed 33 stores in the Fine Jewelry segment
and opened 121 kiosks and carts and closed 38 kiosks and carts in the Kiosk Jewelry segment.

Cost of Sales   .  Cost of sales includes cost of merchandise sold, as well as receiving and
distribution costs. Cost of sales as a percentage of revenues was 48.6 percent for fiscal year
2005, a decrease of 0.1 percentage points over the prior fiscal year. Approximately 0.4 percent of
the increase was driven by our direct sourcing initiatives, which lowered costs on merchandise
produced internally or purchased directly from factories, and 0.3 percent resulted from a higher
mix of ESA sales, which have favorable costs as a
percent of revenue. These improvements were partially offset by a product mix shift to lower
margin merchandise and higher clearance markdowns.

Our LIFO inventory charge was $3.5 million and $2.3 million for the fiscal years ended July
31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Selling General and Administrative Expenses.   Included in SG A are store operating,
advertising, buying and general corporate overhead expenses. SG A increased 0.3 percentage points
to 41.2 percent of revenues in fiscal year 2005, from 40.9 percent of revenues for fiscal year
2004.

- 27 - 

Table of Contents   

Store operating expenses were approximately 1.0 percentage points higher as a percent of
revenues, principally a result of higher fixed occupancy expense as a rate of sales due to the
under-performance of the Zales Jewelers brand and sales lost to the hurricanes in the first two
months of fiscal year 2005. Advertising expenditures also increased by 0.3 percent of sales due to
our continued investments in marketing. The increase in store operating expenses was partially
offset by a reduction in proprietary credit expenses of approximately 0.7 percentage points due to
a change in the mix of our credit programs.

Depreciation and Amortization Expense.   Depreciation and Amortization Expense was $59.8
million in fiscal year 2005, an increase of 6.1 percent over fiscal year 2004, primarily due to
investments in new store growth and IT systems.

Income Taxes.   The effective tax rate for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2005 and 2004 was
37.2 percent and 36.9 percent, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily
due to an increase in various state effective tax rates.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Our cash requirements consist primarily of funding inventory growth, capital expenditures for
new store growth, renovations of the existing store portfolio, and upgrades to our management
information systems and distribution facilities and debt service. As of July 31, 2006, we had cash
and cash equivalents of $42.6 million.

The retail jewelry business is highly seasonal, with a significant proportion of sales and
operating income being generated in November and December of each year. Approximately 41 percent of
our annual revenues were generated during the three months ended January 31, 2006 and January 31,
2005, respectively, which includes the Holiday selling season.

Our working capital requirements fluctuate during the year, historically increasing
substantially (up to $300 million) during the fall season as a result of higher planned seasonal
inventory levels in preparation for Holiday. Primarily as a result of the repositioning of
inventory in the Zales brand, we expect inventory to fluctuate to
higher levels than in prior years through the fall of
calendar year 2006.

The increase in long-term debt compared to July 31, 2005 is partially due to the timing of
certain income tax payments which in the past had been made in subsequent periods, cash outflows
associated with the Bailey Banks   Biddle store closings, and an increase in the share repurchase
program and operating earnings. Borrowings on long-term debt reached a maximum of $315 million in
fiscal year 2006.

In July 2005, we deferred vendor payments of approximately $8.2 million related to domestic
operations and approximately $1.5 million related to international operations into August 2005.
This effectively shifted net cash outflows of $9.7 million from fiscal year 2005 to fiscal year
2006, thereby increasing net cash flows provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2005 with
a commensurate decrease for fiscal year 2006.

Cash Flow Activities  

Net cash provided by operating activities was $79.8 million and $168.3 million for fiscal
years 2006 and 2005, respectively. In fiscal year 2006, the decrease in cash provided by operating
activities was
primarily attributable to the increase in inventory by
$70.5 million excluding the impact of inventory write-downs of
approximately $26.9 million. At July 31, 2006, owned
inventory was approximately $50 million higher than at July 31, 2005 primarily due to an increase
in directly sourced product for the Fine Jewelry segment which results in earlier receipt of raw
materials than finished goods, and increased assortments resulting from the repositioning of the
Zales brand.

Net cash used in investing activities was $81.6 million in fiscal year 2006, related to
capital expenditures of $82.7 million for new store openings, renovations and refurbishments and
net purchases of investments. The increase in capital expenditures from the prior year is
primarily due to investments in new store growth and IT system infrastructure. Net cash used in
investing activities in fiscal year 2005 was $78.2 million primarily related to capital expenses
for new store openings, renovations and refurbishments.

- 28 - 

Table of Contents   

Net cash used in financing activities was $12.9 million in fiscal year 2006, primarily related
to the repurchase of 3.7 million shares of our common stock, and net borrowings of $73.0 million
under the Revolving Credit Agreement (see  Finance Arrangements  herein). Net cash used in
financing activities was $100 million in fiscal year 2005, primarily related to the repurchase of
approximately 1.8 million shares of common stock, and net payments of $67.7 million in borrowings
under the Revolving Credit Agreement.

Finance Arrangements  

Revolving Credit Agreement.   We have a U.S. revolving credit facility (the  Revolving Credit
Agreement ) that provides us up to $500 million in commitments by a group of lenders, including a
$20 million sublimit for letters of credit. The Revolving Credit Agreement is primarily secured by
our U.S. merchandise inventory. On January 17, 2006, we amended the Revolving Credit Agreement to
allow certain U.S. affiliates to guarantee up to CAD $40 million for a revolving credit agreement
in the name of Zale Canada Co., to guarantee up to $20 million for other subsidiaries, and to
increase the Administrative Agent s flexibility in waiving annual audits and inventory appraisals
based on our performance under the Revolving Credit Agreement. The amendment extends the terms of
the Revolving Credit Agreement through August 11, 2009.

The loans made under the Revolving Credit Agreement bear interest at a floating rate at either
(i) the applicable LIBOR (as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement) plus the applicable margin,
or (ii) the Base Rate (as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement) plus the applicable margin.
The margin applicable to LIBOR based loans and standby letter of credit commission rates will be
automatically reduced or increased from time to time based upon excess borrowing availability under
the Revolving Credit Agreement. We pay a quarterly commitment fee of 0.25 percent on the preceding
month s unused commitment. We and our subsidiaries may repay the revolving credit loans
outstanding under the Revolving Credit Agreement at any time without penalty prior to the maturity
date. For the year ended July 31, 2006, the weighted average effective interest rate was 5.80
percent as compared to 3.80 percent for the year ended July 31, 2005. The applicable margin for
LIBOR based loans was 1.25 percent at July 31, 2006 and 2005; and the applicable margin for Base
Rate loans was zero percent at July 31, 2006 and 2005. At July 31, 2006 and 2005, $186.1 and
$129.8 million, respectively, were outstanding under the Revolving Credit Agreement. Based on the
terms of the Revolving Credit Agreement, we had approximately $313.9 million and $370.2 million in
available borrowings at July 31, 2006, and July 31, 2005, respectively. The maximum amount
outstanding under the Revolving Credit Agreement during fiscal year 2006 was $315.0 million and
during fiscal year 2005 was $327.9 million.

At any time, if remaining borrowing availability under the Revolving Credit Agreement falls
below $75 million, we will be restricted in our ability to repurchase stock or pay dividends. If
remaining borrowing availability falls below $50 million, we will be required to meet a minimum
fixed charge coverage ratio. The Revolving Credit Agreement requires us to comply with certain
restrictive covenants including, among other things, limitations on indebtedness, investments,
liens, acquisitions, and asset sales. We are currently in compliance with all of our obligations
under the Revolving Credit Agreement.

Zale Canada Co. entered into a revolving credit agreement (the  Canadian Revolving Credit
Agreement ) on January 17, 2006 with a maturity date of August 11, 2009. The Canadian Revolving
Credit Agreement provides us up to CAD $30 million in commitments by Bank of America (acting
through
its Canadian branch). The Canadian Revolving Credit Agreement is secured by a guaranty from
certain U.S. affiliates.

The loans made under the Canadian Revolving Credit Agreement bear interest at a floating rate
at either (i) the applicable BA rate (as defined in the Canadian Revolving Credit Agreement) plus
the applicable margin, or (ii) the Base Rate (as defined in the Canadian Revolving Credit
Agreement) plus the applicable margin. The margin applicable to BA based loans is equivalent to
the margin for LIBOR based loans as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement. Zale Canada Co.
pays a quarterly commitment fee of 0.25 percent on the preceding month s unused commitment. Zale
Canada Co. may repay the revolving credit loans outstanding under the Canadian Revolving Credit
Agreement at any time without penalty prior to the maturity date. At July 31, 2006, CAD $18.9
million was outstanding under the Canadian Revolving Credit Agreement. For the year ended July 31,
2006, the weighted average effective interest rate was 5.49 percent. The applicable margin for BA
based loans was 1.25 percent at July 31, 2006, and the applicable

- 29 - 

Table of Contents   

margin for Base Rate loans was
zero percent at July 31, 2006. Based on the terms of the Canadian Revolving Credit Agreement, we
had approximately CAD $11.1 million in available borrowings at July 31, 2006.

Capital Growth 

During
the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006, we invested $82.7 million of capital expenditures with
approximately $54.9 million attributed to our Fine Jewelry segment to open 59 stores and to
renovate, relocate or refurbish other locations. In addition, another $7.8 million of capital
expenditures were invested in the Kiosk Jewelry segment to open 54 kiosks and carts, and to renovate,
relocate or refurbish other locations during fiscal year 2006; we
anticipate investing approximately
$87.2 million of capital expenditures during fiscal year 2007.

Other Activities Affecting Liquidity 

Stock Repurchase Plan.   On August 30, 2005, we announced that our Board of Directors had
approved a stock repurchase program pursuant to which we, from time to time, at management s
discretion and in accordance with our usual policies and applicable securities laws, could purchase
up to an additional $100 million of our common stock, par value $.01 per share ( common stock ).
As of January 31, 2006, we had repurchased 3.7 million shares of common stock at an aggregate cost
of approximately $100 million, which completed the Board s authorization under the fiscal year 2006
program.

We believe fiscal year 2007 is a year of repositioning our flagship brand, Zales Jewelers. As
a result, we intend to use capital resources to invest in new inventory assortments as we reduce
discontinued merchandise. However, we may elect, during fiscal year 2007, to repurchase additional
shares of our common stock.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   .  Citibank U.S.A., N.A. ( Citi ), a subsidiary of CitiGroup,
provides financing to our customers through our private label credit card program in exchange for
payment by us of a merchant fee (subject to periodic adjustment) based on a percentage of each
credit card sale. The receivables established through the issuance of credit by Citi are
originated and owned by Citi. Losses related to a  standard credit account  (an account within the
credit limit approved under the original merchant agreement between us and Citi) are assumed
entirely by Citi without recourse to us, except where a Company employee violates the credit
procedures agreed to in the merchant agreement.

In an effort to better service customers, we and Citi developed a program that extends credit
to qualifying customers above the approved credit amount (the  Shared Risk Program ). The
extension of incremental credit is at our discretion to accommodate larger sales transactions. We
bear the responsibility of customer default losses related to the Shared Risk Program, as defined
in the agreement with Citi.

Under the Shared Risk Program, we incurred approximately $107,000 in losses for fiscal year
2006, compared to $28,000 in losses for the prior fiscal year, and believe that future losses will
not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.

Net Operating Losses.   Future liquidity will be enhanced to the extent that we are able to
realize the cash benefit from utilization of our past Net Operating Losses ( NOL ) carried forward
against current and future tax liabilities. The cash benefit realized from NOLs in fiscal year
2006 was approximately $6.8 million. As of July 31, 2006, we had NOLs (after limitations) of $40.0
million, which represents up to $14.0 million in future tax benefits. The utilization of this
asset is subject to limitations. The most restrictive limitation is the Internal Revenue Code
Section 382 annual limitation of $19.5 million. The NOL can be utilized through fiscal year 2008.

- 30 - 

Table of Contents   

Contractual Obligations   .  Aggregate information about our contractual obligations as of
July 31, 2006 is presented in the following table.

(a) 
       
     Long-term debt relates to principal payments due under our Revolving Credit Agreement. This
amount does not reflect any interest, which would be based on the current effective rate,
which was 6.47 percent at July 31, 2006 and assuming no prepayments. 

(b) 
       
     Operating lease obligations relate to minimum payments due under store lease agreements. Most
of the store operating leases provide for the payment of base rentals plus real estate taxes,
insurance, common area maintenance fees and merchant association dues. For fiscal year 2006,
these costs represented approximately 20 percent of fixed rent payments. (See  Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements-Lease Commitments  for further discussion). 

(c) 
       
     We have an operations services agreement with a third party for the management of our
mainframe processing operations, client server systems, Local Area Network operations, Wide
Area Network management and e-commerce hosting. The current agreement is effective August 1,
2005 (see  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Commitments and Contingencies  for
further discussion). 

(d) 
       
     Executive Severance reflects the contractual cash and equities obligations primarily
resulting from the resignation of the Chief Executive Officer ($8.5 million) and the Chief
Operating Officer ($3.6 million). 

(e) 
       
     Other long-term liabilities reflect loss reserves related to credit insurance. We have
reflected these payments under  Other,  as the timing of these future payments is dependent on
the actual processing of the claims. 

(f) 
       
     Not included in the above table is the long-term portion ($12.5 million) of the incentive
payment received from Citi Commerce Solutions of $41.8 million. The incentive is amortized
over the life of the contract and is included in long-term liabilities on the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheet but does not impact cash payments in future periods. (See  Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements-Deferred Credit  for further discussion). 

(g) 
       
     Not included in the table above as purchase obligations are our obligations under employment
agreements and ordinary course purchase orders for merchandise and obligations, including
certain merchandise on memo for which we may have a contingent liability to purchase certain
items if they do not sell through. 

New Accounting Pronouncement 

FASB Interpretation No. 48.   The Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) released
Interpretation 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes,  in June 2006. Interpretation 48
supplements FASB Statement 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes,  by defining the threshold for
recognizing the benefits of tax positions in the financial statements. Interpretation 48 is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. Therefore, we will adopt
Interpretation 48 for fiscal year ending July 31, 2008. At adoption, our financial statements will
be adjusted to reflect those positions that are more-likely-than-not to be sustained at the
adoption date. We will record any necessary adjustments directly to retained earnings on August 1,
2007 as a change in accounting principle. Over the next fiscal year, we will begin the process of
reassessing our worldwide historical tax positions in order to apply Interpretation 48. At this
time, we do not anticipate this will result in a material adjustment to our results of operations,
balance sheet or cashflows.

- 31 - 

Table of Contents   

Inflation 

In management s opinion, changes in net revenues, net earnings, and inventory valuation that
have resulted from inflation and increasing costs have not been material during the periods
presented. The trends in inflation rates pertaining to merchandise inventories, especially as they
relate to gold and diamond costs, are primary components in determining our last-in, first-out
( LIFO ) inventory. Current market trends indicate rising diamond prices. If such trends
continue, our LIFO provision could be impacted. We currently hedge a
portion of our gold and silver purchases
through forward contracts. Inflation may materially affect us in the future.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

Our accounting and financial reporting policies are in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting policies requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at
the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. For example, unexpected
changes in market conditions or a downturn in the economy could adversely affect actual results.
Estimates are used in accounting for, among other things, merchandise inventory valuation, goodwill
and long lived asset valuation, LIFO inventory retail method, legal liability, credit insurance
liability, product warranty, depreciation, employee benefits, workers  compensation, tax, and
contingencies. Estimates and assumptions are reviewed periodically and the effects of revisions are
reflected in the consolidated financial statements in the period they are determined to be
necessary.

Management believes the following accounting policies, among others, affect our more
significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial
statements.

Merchandise Inventories   .  Merchandise inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.
Substantially all U.S. inventories represent finished goods which are valued using the LIFO retail
inventory method. Merchandise inventory of Peoples Jewellers and Mappins Jewellers of Canada is
valued using the first-in, first-out ( FIFO ) retail inventory method. Under the retail method,
inventory is segregated into categories of merchandise with similar characteristics at its current
average retail selling value. The determination of inventory at cost and the resulting gross
margins are calculated by applying an average cost-to-retail ratio to the retail value of
inventory. At the end of fiscal year 2006, approximately seven percent of our total inventory
represented raw materials and other inventory associated with internally sourced product. This
inventory is valued at the weighted average cost of the items.

We are required to determine the LIFO cost on an interim basis by estimating annual inflation
trends, annual purchases and ending inventory levels for the fiscal year. Actual annual inflation
rates and inventory balances as of the end of any fiscal year may differ from interim estimates. We
apply internally developed indices that we believe accurately and consistently measure inflation or
deflation in the components of our merchandise (i.e., diamonds, gold and other metals and precious
stones) and our overall merchandise mix. We believe our internally developed indices more
accurately reflect inflation or deflation in our own prices than the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics ( BLS ) producer price indices or other published indices.

We also reduce our inventory valuation for discontinued, slow-moving and damaged inventory.
This write-down of inventory is equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its
estimated market value based upon assumptions of targeted inventory turn rates, future demand,
management strategy, and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than
those projected by management or management strategy changes, additional inventory write-downs may
be required and, in the case of a major change in strategy or downturn in market conditions, such
write-downs could be significant. For example, in fiscal year 2006, we recorded inventory
write-downs of $27 million resulting from the decision to accelerate the clearance of previously
discontinued merchandise assortments and $6 million to the closure of Bailey Banks   Biddle stores.

Shrinkage is estimated for the period from the last inventory date to the end of the fiscal
year on a store by store basis. Such estimates are based on experience and the shrinkage results
from the last physical inventory. Physical inventories are taken at least once annually for all
store locations and for the

- 32 - 

Table of Contents   

distribution centers. The shrinkage rate from the most recent physical inventory, in
combination with historical experience and significant changes in physical inventory results could
impact our shrinkage reserve.

Long-lived Assets and Goodwill.   Long-lived assets are periodically reviewed for impairment by
comparing the carrying value of the assets with their estimated undiscounted future cashflows. If
the evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable, the
potential impairment is measured based on a projected discounted cash flow method, using a discount
rate that is considered to be commensurate with the risk inherent in our current business model.
Assumptions are made with respect to cash flows expected to be generated by the related assets
based upon updated projections. Any changes in key assumptions, particularly store performance or
market conditions, could result in an unanticipated impairment charge. For instance, in the event
of a major market downturn or adverse developments within a particular market or portion of our
business, individual stores may become unprofitable, which could result in a write-down of the
carrying value of the assets located in those stores. Any impairment would be recognized in
operating results.

In accordance with SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  we test goodwill for
impairment annually, at the end of our second quarter, or more frequently if events occur which
indicate a potential reduction in the fair value of a reporting unit s net assets below its
carrying value. An impairment is deemed to exist if the estimated fair value is less than the net
book value of a reporting unit. We calculate estimated fair value using the present value of
future cash flows expected to be generated using a weighted average cost of capital and updated
financial projections. Based upon the amounts currently recorded as goodwill, recent performance
and estimated projections, we believe the likelihood of additional impairment would not be
material. However, a significant change in the related brand s performance, such as the closing of
a majority of the brand s stores, could result in additional impairment. In the second quarter of
fiscal year 2006, we performed our annual review for impairment of goodwill related to our Piercing
Pagoda Inc., People s Jewellers and other smaller acquisitions. We concluded that there was no
evidence of impairment related to the goodwill of approximately $19.4 million for our Piercing
Pagoda acquisition, $71.9 million recorded for the People s Jewellers acquisition and $5.0 million
for other smaller acquisitions.

Revenue Recognition.   We recognize revenue in accordance with the Securities and Exchange
Commission s Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104  Revenue Recognition.  Revenue related to
merchandise sales, which is approximately 94 percent of total revenues, is recognized at the time
of the sale, reduced by a provision for sales returns. The provision for sales returns is based on
historical evidence of our return rate. Repair revenues are recognized when the service is complete
and the merchandise is delivered to the customers. Total revenues
include two warranty programs: ESAs that cover sizing and breakage
for a two-year period on certain products purchased from us, and
sales from a diamond commitment program ( DCP ) that offers a
traditional warranty to cover sizing and breakage for a 12-month
period, as well as theft replacement coverage for the same 12-month
period. The revenues from these agreements are recognized over the
service period at the rates the related costs are expected to be
incurred in performing covered services under the agreements. Any significant change in the proportion of
costs expected to be incurred in performing services under the agreements could result in a change
in the amount of revenue recognized. For instance, a five percent change on an annual basis in the
timing of services under these agreements could result in a five percent change in the revenue
recognized. Revenues also include premiums from our insurance businesses, principally related to
credit insurance policies sold to customers who purchase our merchandise under the proprietary
credit program. Insurance premiums are recognized over the coverage period.

Other Reserves.   We are involved in a number of legal and governmental proceedings as part of
the normal course of business. Reserves are established based on management s best estimates of
our potential liability in these matters. These estimates have been developed in consultation with
in-house and outside counsel and are based on a combination of litigation and settlement
strategies.

Income taxes are estimated for each jurisdiction in which we operate. This involves assessing
the current tax exposure together with temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of
items for tax and financial statement accounting purposes. Any resulting deferred tax assets are
evaluated for recoverability based on estimated future taxable income. To the extent that recovery
is deemed not likely, a valuation allowance is recorded. We believe that as of July 31, 2006, the
realization of our gross deferred tax assets is more likely than not and thus there was no
valuation reserve recorded.

- 33 - 

Table of Contents   

Other Matters 

SEC Investigation.   On April 10, 2006, we announced that the SEC had initiated a non-public
investigation into various accounting and other matters related to our business, including
accounting for ESAs, leases and accrued payroll. Subpoenas issued in connection with the
investigation requested materials relating to these accounting matters as well as to executive
compensation and severance, earnings guidance, stock trading, and the timing of certain vendor
payments. On September 21, 2006, the staff of the SEC notified us that the investigation of Zale
Corporation had been terminated with no enforcement action being recommended.

Securities and ERISA Litigation.   We are named as a defendant in six lawsuits arising, in
general, from the matters that the SEC was investigating as described above. The lawsuits are: (a)
 Levy v. Zale Corp.,  No. 1:06-CV-05464, filed July 19, 2006, U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York, (b)  Agoos v. Zale Corp.,  No. 1:06-CV-5877, filed August 3, 2006, U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York, (c)  Pipefitters Local No. 636 Defined Benefit
Plan v. Zale Corp.,  No. 3:06-CV-1470, filed August 15, 2006, U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Texas, (d)  Chester v. Zale Corp.,  No. 1:06-CV-06387, filed August 23, 2006, U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York, (e)  Salvato v. Zale Corp.,  No. 3-06 CV
1124-D, filed June 26, 2006, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas, and (f)
 Connell v. Zale Corp.,  No. 06 CV 5995, filed August 7, 2006, U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York. Mary L. Fort , Mark R. Lenz, and Sue E. Gove are named as defendants in all
six lawsuits. Cynthia T. Gordon is also named as a defendant in the
 Levy, Agoos,  and  Chester 
lawsuits. Richard C. Marcus, J. Glen Adams, Mary E. Burton, John B. Lowe, Jr., Thomas C. Shull,
David M. Szymanski, and the Zale Plan Committee also are named as defendants in the  Salvato  and
 Connell  lawsuits.

All six lawsuits are purported class actions. In the  Levy, Agoos, Pipefitters and Chester 
lawsuits the plaintiffs allege various violations of securities laws based upon our public
disclosures. In the  Salvato  and  Connell  lawsuits the plaintiffs allege various violations of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) based upon the investment by the Zale
Corporation Savings and Investment Plan in Company stock. The plaintiffs in all six lawsuits
request unspecified compensatory damages and costs and, in the  Salvato  and  Connell  lawsuits,
injunctive relief and attorneys  fees. All six lawsuits are in preliminary stages. We intend to
vigorously contest all six lawsuits.

Executive
Changes.   Effective January 31, 2006, President and Chief Executive Officer Mary L.
Fort  resigned and Mary E. Burton, a member of our Board of Directors, was appointed Acting Chief
Executive Officer. Subsequently, Ms. Burton was permanently appointed as President and Chief
Executive Officer. She remains as a director of the Company.

Effective February 16, 2006, John Zimmermann was appointed President of Zale North America,
responsible for the Zales Jewelers, Peoples Jewellers, Mappins Jewellers, and Peoples II brands.
Mr. Zimmermann had formerly been President of Zale Canada which included the Peoples Jewellers and
Mappins Jewellers brands.

On March 23, 2006, Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President Sue E. Gove resigned.

On May 5, 2006, Chief Financial Officer and Group Senior Vice President Mark Lenz was placed
on administrative leave. This decision was made after discussions with our outside auditors
concerning Mr. Lenz s failure to timely disclose in conversations with the auditors that vendor
payments scheduled to be made during the last two weeks of our fiscal year ended July 31, 2005 were
delayed until the first week of August 2005. We believe that both cash and accounts payable were
properly reflected on the balance sheet. Mr. Lenz s employment ended on July 31, 2006 upon the
expiration of his employment contract.

On May 5, 2006, George R. Mihalko, Jr. was elected as a director of the Company and agreed to
serve as Acting Chief Administrative Officer and Acting Chief Financial Officer.

Rodney Carter was appointed Chief Financial Officer and Group Senior Vice President, effective
October 16, 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Carter was the Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., and prior to that position, was the Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for CEC Entertainment, Inc.

- 34 - 

Table of Contents   

Special Charge.   In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, we recorded an after tax special
charge primarily consisting of (1) $16.8 million to accelerate inventory markdowns on discontinued
items, (2) $3.3 million related to the termination of an information technology initiative not
consistent with needs of the business, and (3) a $2.9 million asset impairment related to certain
test stores. Separately, we recorded a $1.5 million after tax charge for accrued percentage rent
related to prior periods and a $1.9 million tax charge primarily related to Canadian earnings.

Bailey Banks   Biddle Store Closings.   During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, we
closed 32 Bailey Banks   Biddle stores to improve performance and profitability. We incurred a
total of $21.2 million or $0.43 per diluted share after taxes, related to the Bailey Banks   Biddle
closings for fiscal year 2006.

American Jobs Creation Act.   On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act (the  AJCA )
was signed into law. The AJCA includes, among other provisions, a special one-time deduction for 85
percent of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated to the U.S. from foreign operations, as
defined in the AJCA. We have a Canadian subsidiary for which we elected to apply this provision to
qualifying earnings repatriations in fiscal year 2006. In January 2006, we executed a Domestic
Repatriation Plan under the provision and repatriated $47.6 million, realizing an income tax
benefit of $11.9 million partially offset by a liability of $5.1 million related to management s
decision not to elect APB 23 for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2006. The net income tax benefit
realized was $6.8 million, or $0.14 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006.

Texas Margin Tax   .  In May 2006, the Texas legislature enacted a new law that changes the
present Texas franchise tax system and replaces it with a new tax system, the Texas margin tax.
The Texas margin tax is a significant change because it generally makes all legal entities subject
to tax, including general and limited partnerships, while the current franchise tax system applies
only to corporations and limited liability companies. We conduct a portion of our operations
through Texas limited partnerships and will become subject to the new Texas margin tax. We will
comply with the Texas margin tax effective January 1, 2008. The computation of the tax liability
will be based on revenues as of July 31, 2007, as reduced by certain deductions.

In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 109, which require that deferred tax assets and
liabilities be adjusted for the effects of new income tax legislation in the period of enactment,
we estimated the net charge to deferred tax expense is immaterial. The estimate is based on the
Texas margin tax law in its current form.

- 35 - 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, which may adversely affect our
financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In seeking to minimize the risks from
interest rate fluctuations, we manage exposures through our regular operating and financing
activities. We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative
purposes and are not party to any leveraged financial instruments.

We are exposed to interest rate risk primarily through our borrowing activities, which are
described under  Long-term Debt  in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The investments of our insurance subsidiaries, primarily stocks and bonds, had an approximate
market value at July 31, 2006 of $22 million.

Based on our market risk-sensitive instruments (including variable rate debt) outstanding at
July 31, 2006, we have determined that there was no material market risk exposure to our
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date.

Commodity Risk .  We principally address commodity risk through retail price point
adjustments and commodity price hedging.

While commodity risk exposure to diamond price fluctuation is not currently hedged by
financial instruments, we do enter into forward contracts for the purchase of gold and silver in
order to reduce the effects of fluctuating costs of these commodities. We generally hedge certain
planned inventory purchases covering a designated period of no longer than twelve months and
amounts consistent with our identified exposure. The purpose of the hedging activities is to
minimize the effect of unknown future commodity price movements on planned cash flows and to enable
us to maintain a consistent and predictable pricing strategy. All forward contracts are currently
with four financial institutions rated as investment grade by a major rating agency. No fees or up
front payments are required when using these commodity forwards. These contracts settle on a net
basis.

We currently account for these forward contracts as undesignated derivative instruments.
Accounting for our forward contracts as derivatives instead of hedges does not affect the
underlying economics of our risk management strategies and has no impact on the timing or amount of
cash flows under any derivative contract. The fair value of our derivative instruments is included
in the consolidated balance sheets. These fair values are obtained from outside counterparties and
verified with internal discounted cash flow models. During the term of the contracts, any changes
in the fair value of derivative instruments are reported in derivative (gains)/losses on the
consolidated statements of operations .  The fair market value of these instruments is subject to
the changes in the value of the underlying commodity. In the year ended July 31, 2006, gold
fluctuated significantly, between a low of $432 per ounce to a high of $715 per ounce. At July 31,
2006, the price of gold was $637 per ounce. Based on our outstanding contracts as of July 31,
2006, we would record a derivatives gain before taxes of approximately $15 million if gold prices
increase to the 2006 high (a 12 percent increase from the July 31, 2006 price). In turn, if gold
prices were to decrease to the 2006 low (a 32 percent decrease from the July 31, 2006 price), we
would record a derivatives loss before taxes of approximately $45 million.

At July 31, 2006, the mark-to-market value of our outstanding forward contracts was a net loss
before taxes of $1.3 million. As of October 9, 2006, the market price of gold had decreased to
$577 per ounce. Based on our contracts outstanding as of July 31, 2006, such a decrease would
result in a derivatives loss before taxes of approximately $15 million. While we realize a gain or
loss on the derivative contract, we typically see a compensating gain or loss in the purchase cost
of our products.

We have classified cash activity associated with derivatives as an operating activity in the
consolidated statements of cash flows.

For additional information related to forward contracts, see  Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   Derivative Financial Instruments. 

- 36 - 

Table of Contents   

Foreign Currency Contracts   .  We are not subject to substantial currency fluctuations because
most of our purchases are U.S. dollar-denominated. However, as a result of our Canadian
operations, we are exposed to market risk from currency exchange rate exposure which may adversely
affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In seeking to minimize this
risk, we manage exposures through foreign currency exchange contracts.

In past fiscal years, we entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce
the effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates. We enter into forward currency exchange
contracts with terms that are no longer than twelve months. These contracts are used to hedge
certain forecasted inventory, advertising, and purchases relating to real estate activities
anticipated to be incurred each fiscal year, denominated in foreign currencies for periods and
amounts consistent with our identified exposures. The purpose of the hedging activities is to
minimize the effect of foreign exchange rate movements on cash flows. When utilized, all foreign
currency forward exchange contracts are denominated in Canadian dollars and are with financial
institutions rated as investment grade by a major rating agency. No fees or up front payments are
required when using these foreign currency forward exchange contracts. In fiscal year 2006, we did
not enter into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts.

- 37 - 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

The following Consolidated Financial Statements and supplementary data are included as pages
F-1 through F-32 at the end of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

Page  

Index  
       
      Number  

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

F-2 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-3 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-5 

Consolidated Statements of Operations

F-6 

Consolidated Balance Sheets

F-7 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

F-8 

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Investment

F-9 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-11 

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE 

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we have evaluated the effectiveness of our
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
covered by this report. On October 5, 2006, management concluded that
the Company did not maintain effective policies and procedures to
ensure the accounting for certain derivative financial instruments
were in accordance with FAS 133 as more fully described in
 Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting  referred to below. Solely as a result of this
material weakness, management, including the Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer, concluded that our disclosure and
procedures were not effective as of July 31, 2006. However, the
consolidated financial statements, contained in this Form 10-K, are
fairly presented in conformity with the U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

Our Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is included on page F-2
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The report of KPMG LLP, our independent registered public
accounting firm, regarding management s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting
and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting is included on page F-3 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
our most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal control over financial reporting. However, subsequent to the end of our most
recent fiscal quarter, we implemented changes intended to remediate the material weakness discussed
above.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 

Summary of Mary E. Burton Employment Agreement 

On October 12, 2006, the Company entered into an employment agreement with Mary E. Burton
effective July 24, 2006, with respect to her employment as President and Chief Executive Officer of
the Company. The agreement has a one-year term that automatically renews unless the Company or Ms.
Burton elects otherwise 90 days prior to the end of the initial one-year term or any renewal term.

- 38 - 

Table of Contents   

Ms. Burton will be paid an annual base salary of not less than $850,000, subject to annual
review and potential increase by the Company s Compensation Committee. She will be eligible to
receive an annual incentive bonus with a target bonus equal to 125 percent of her base salary. For
the fiscal year ending July 31, 2007 ( Fiscal Year 2007), she will be entitled to a bonus not less
than her full target bonus (the  FY 2007 Bonus ). In addition, Ms. Burton has been granted 25,000
restricted stock units that cliff vest at the end of a three-year period, 25,000 restricted stock
units that vest based on the Company s achievement of financial goals for the performance period
ending July 31, 2009, and an option to purchase 125,000 shares of Common Stock.

In the event Ms. Burton s employment is terminated other than for  cause  or Ms. Burton
terminates her employment for a  termination reason  (both as defined in the employment agreement),
the Company will pay Ms. Burton an amount equal to the sum of two times her annual base salary as
of the date of termination, plus two times the average of her earned annual incentive bonus in the
three fiscal year periods prior to the year of termination (or a shorter period if the agreement
has been in effect for less than three years on the date of termination), all payable in equal
installments for a period of 24 months. For purposes of calculating the bonus portion of Ms.
Burton s severance payment, the Company will ignore the FY 2007 Bonus and will instead utilize an
amount equal to the actual bonus Ms. Burton would have earned in Fiscal Year 2007 absent such
provision. The Company will continue group health insurance and certain other benefits for a
period of 24 months. The payment of such amounts will be subject to and comply with the
requirements of section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Internal
Revenue Code ) as enacted by the AJCA. If, despite such compliance, Ms. Burton is required to pay
additional tax, interest, or penalties under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, Ms. Burton
will receive a gross-up payment designed to reimburse her for those amounts. Upon such termination
of Ms. Burton s employment, all unvested restricted stock units and stock options will terminate
and all vested stock options will remain exercisable for a 90-day period.

If the Company terminates Ms. Burton s employment (other than for cause) within two years
following a  change of control  of the Company, or if Ms. Burton terminates her employment during
that period for  good reason  (both as defined in the employment agreement): (1) the Company will
pay Ms. Burton an amount equal to three times the sum of her annual base salary and target bonus
for the fiscal year in which the termination occurs and (2) during the 36-month period following
termination, the Company will provide Ms. Burton with group health insurance and certain other
benefits. All equity compensation will immediately vest and all stock options will remain
exercisable for a 90-day period after termination, unless any of those options expire earlier under
their own terms. In addition, Ms. Burton will receive a gross-up payment designed to reimburse her
for any  parachute  tax imposed under Internal Revenue Code Section 280G. Any change of control
payments made under the agreement are also subject to and will comply with the requirements of
Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code as enacted by the AJCA. If, despite such compliance, Ms.
Burton is required to pay additional tax, interest, or penalties under Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code, Ms. Burton will receive a gross-up payment designed to reimburse her for those
amounts.

Summary of Frank C. Mroczka Employment Agreement 

On August 1,
2006, the Company entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Mroczka with a
term that continues through July 31, 2007. Under the employment agreement, Mr. Mroczka is entitled
to an annual base salary of not less than $300,000. Mr. Mroczka is eligible to receive an annual
incentive bonus with a target bonus equal to 45 percent of his annual base salary in accordance
with the terms and conditions of the Company s executive bonus program.

In the event Mr. Mroczka s employment is terminated other than for  cause  or Mr. Mroczka
terminates his employment for a  termination reason  (both as defined in the employment agreement:
(1) the Company will continue to pay Mr. Mroczka s base salary for the greater of the remainder of
the term of the employment agreement or the period for which Mr. Mroczka would be entitled to
severance under the Company s severance policy; and (2) for a period of up to 12 months the Company
will provide Mr. Mroczka with group health insurance and certain other benefits. The payment of
such amounts will be subject to and comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code as enacted by the AJCA. If, despite such compliance, Mr. Mroczka is required to pay
additional tax, interest, or penalties under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, Mr. Mroczka
will receive a gross-up payment designed to reimburse him for those amounts.

If the Company terminates Mr. Mroczka s employment (other than for cause) within two years
following a  change of control  of the Company, or if Mr. Mroczka terminates his employment during
such period for  good reason  (both as defined in the employment agreement): (1) the Company will
pay Mr. Mroczka an amount equal to three times the sum of his annual base salary for the fiscal
year in which the termination occurs and an amount equal to three times the average annual cash
bonus paid to Mr. Mroczka during the preceding two years; (2) during the 36 month period following
termination, the Company will provide Mr. Mroczka with group health insurance and certain other
benefits; and (3) Mr. Mroczka will receive a lump sum payment equal to the actuarial equivalent of
the benefit that would have accrued under the Company s Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan if
Mr. Mroczka (x) had remained a participant in the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for an
additional three-year period, (y) earned benefits points in each such year equal to the highest
number of benefits points earned by Mr. Mroczka during the three-year period preceding termination
of employment and (z) had a final average pay during such additional three-year period equal to the
greater of his monthly base salary on the date of the potential change of control (as defined in
the employment agreement), the change of control or his termination of employment, provided that
the amount payable to Mr. Mroczka will not exceed his accrued benefit under the Supplemental
Executive Retirement Plan as of December 31, 2004, unless such excess is pursuant to a new
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan adopted by the Company subsequent to December 31, 2004. Any
change of control payments made under the agreement are also subject to and will comply with the
requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code as enacted by the AJCA. If, despite such
compliance, Mr. Mroczka is required to pay additional tax, interest, or penalties under Section
409A of the Internal Revenue Code, Mr. Mroczka will receive a gross-up payment designed to
reimburse him for those amounts.

- 39 - 

Table of Contents   

PART III 

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

The information set forth under the headings  Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors, 
 Corporate Governance  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our
definitive Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by
reference. In addition, the information set forth under  Executive Officers and Key Employees of
the Registrant  in Part I of this report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

The information set forth under the heading  Executive and Director Compensation  in our
definitive Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

The information set forth under the heading  Outstanding Voting Securities of the Company and
Principal Holders Thereof  in our definitive Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.

Equity Compensation Plan Information 

The following table provides information about common stock that may be issued upon the
exercise of options and rights under all existing equity compensation plans as of July 31, 2006.

Equity Compensation Plan Information 

(1) 
       
     Includes shares of common stock to be issued upon the exercise of outstanding options
under the Zale Corporation Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan, the Zale Corporation 2003 Stock
Incentive Plan, the Zale Corporation Outside Directors  1995 Stock Option Plan, and the Zale
Corporation Outside Directors  2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended. 

(2) 
       
     Includes shares of common stock available for future issuance under the Zale Corporation 2003
Stock Incentive Plan as amended, and the Zale Corporation Outsider Directors  2005 Stock
Incentive Plan, as amended. 

(3) 
       
     The number of shares to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options and the number of
securities available for future issuance under the equity compensation plans were
proportionally adjusted to give effect to our two-for-one stock split completed on June 8,
2004. 

- 40 - 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

Not applicable.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 

The information set forth under the heading  Independent Auditor Fee Information  in our
definitive Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by
reference.

- 41 - 

Table of Contents   

PART IV 

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K 

The following documents are filed as part of this report.

1. Financial Statements 

The list of financial statements required by this item is set forth in Item 8.

2. Index to Financial Statement Schedules 

All other financial statements and financial statement schedules for which provision is made
in the applicable accounting regulation of the SEC are not required under the related instructions,
are not material or are not applicable and, therefore, have been omitted or are included in the
consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

3. Exhibits 

Each management contract or compensation plan required to be filed as an exhibit is identified
by an asterisk (*).

- 42 - 

Table of Contents   

- 43 - 

Table of Contents   

# 
       
     Zale Corporation has requested
confidential treatment for certain portions of this document pursuant
to an application sent to the SEC. The Company has omitted such
portions from this filing and filed them separately with the SEC. 

- 44 - 

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Page  

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

F-2 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-3 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-5 

Consolidated Statements of Operations

F-6 

Consolidated Balance Sheets

F-7 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

F-8 

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Investments

F-9 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-11 

F - 1 

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 

To the Stockholders of Zale Corporation:

The management of Zale Corporation and its subsidiaries (the  Company ) is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Our internal
control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance to management and the
Board of Directors regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures included in such
controls may deteriorate.

Our management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
as of July 31, 2006. In making this assessment, management used criteria set forth by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework.  Based on this assessment, the following material weakness was identified in
the Company s internal control over financial reporting:

The Company did not maintain effective policies and procedures to ensure the accounting for
certain derivative financial instrument in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities  (SFAS 133).
Specifically, the Company had inadequate policies and procedures in place to ensure compliance with
the documentation requirements of SFAS 133 at inception of the hedge relationship and failed to
properly assess effectiveness and measure ineffectiveness at inception and on a quarterly basis.
In addition, the Company did not have resources with sufficient technical experience related to the
application of the provisions of SFAS 133. These deficiencies resulted in errors related to the
recognition and classification of gains and losses on certain derivative financial instruments in
the Company s financial statements. These deficiencies also resulted in more than a remote likelihood that
a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or
detected.

Because of the material weakness described above, management concluded that the Company s
internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of July 31, 2006.

KPMG LLP, the registered public accounting firm that audited the financial statements included
in this Form 10-K filing, has issued an audit report on management s assessment of our internal
control over financial reporting. That report appears on page F-3.

Mary E. Burton

George R. Mihalko, Jr. 

President, Chief Executive Officer 

Chief Financial Officer,  

and Director 

Chief Administrative Officer and  

Director  

October 12, 2006 

October 12, 2006  

F - 2 

Table of Contents   

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Zale Corporation:

We have audited management s assessment, included in the accompanying  Management s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,  that Zale
Corporation did not maintain
effective internal control over financial reporting as of
July 31, 2006 because of the effect of material weakness
identified in management's assessment, based on criteria
established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Zale Corporation s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on management s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

F-3 

Table of Contents   

A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results
in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial
statements will not be prevented or detected. The following material weakness has been identified
and included in management s assessment:

The Company did not maintain effective internal controls to ensure the accounting for certain
derivative financial instrument in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  (SFAS 133). Specifically, the
Company had inadequate policies and procedures in place to ensure compliance with the
documentation requirements of SFAS 133 at inception of the hedge relationship and failed to
properly assess effectiveness and measure ineffectiveness at inception and on a quarterly basis.
In addition, the Company did not have resources with sufficient technical experience related to
the application of the provisions of SFAS 133. These deficiencies resulted in errors related to
the recognition and classification of gains and losses on certain derivative financial instruments
in the Company s financial statements. These deficiencies also
resulted in more than a remote likelihood
that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented
or detected.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Zale Corporation as of July 31, 2006 and
2005 and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  investment, and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended July 31, 2006. This material weakness
was considered in determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of
the 2006 consolidated financial statements, and this report does not affect our report dated
October 12, 2006, which expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
statements.

In our opinion, management s assessment that Zale Corporation did not maintain effective internal
control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects,
based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Also, in our opinion, because of
the effect of the material weakness described above on the achievement of the objectives of the
control criteria, Zale Corporation has not maintained effective internal control over financial
reporting as of July 31, 2006, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).

KPMG LLP

Dallas, Texas 
October 12, 2006

F-4 

Table of Contents   

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors 
Zale Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Zale Corporation as of July 31 2006
and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  investment, and cash
flows for the three-year period ended July 31, 2006. These consolidated financial statements are
the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Zale Corporation as of July 31, 2006 and 2005, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended July 31, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of Zale Corporation s internal control over financial
reporting as of July 31, 2006, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO),
and our report dated October 12, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management s assessment
of, and an adverse opinion on the effective operation of, internal control over financial
reporting.

As discussed in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the
provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board s Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123 (revised 2004)  Share Based Payment  in fiscal year 2006.

KPMG LLP

Dallas, Texas 
October 12, 2006

F-5 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
(amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 

See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

F - 6 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

(amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 

See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

F - 7 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
(amounts in thousands) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F - 8 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  INVESTMENT 
(amounts in thousands) 

See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

F - 9 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  INVESTMENT (continued) 
(amounts in thousands) 

See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

F - 10 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Basis of Presentation 

We are, through our wholly owned subsidiaries, North America s largest specialty retailer of
fine jewelry. At July 31, 2006, we operated 1,456 specialty retail jewelry stores, 817 kiosks, and
76 carts located mainly in shopping malls throughout the United States of America, Canada and
Puerto Rico. We report our operations under three segments: Fine Jewelry, Kiosk Jewelry and All
Other.

Our Fine Jewelry segment is comprised of six brands, each targeted to reach a distinct
customer. Each brand specializes in fine jewelry and watches, with merchandise and marketing
emphasis focused on diamond products. Zales Jewelers    is our national brand in the U.S. providing
moderately priced jewelry to a broad range of customers. Zales Jewelers has extended the reach of
its brand to the Internet shopper through its e-commerce site,  zales.com.  We have further leveraged
the brand strength through Zales Outlet, which focuses on a slightly higher-income female self
purchaser in outlet malls and neighborhood power centers. Gordon s Jewelers    is a regional jeweler
focusing on customer driven assortments. Bailey Banks   Biddle Fine Jewelers    operates jewelry
stores that are considered among the finest luxury jewelry stores in their markets, offering
designer jewelry and prestige watches to attract more affluent customers. Bailey Banks   Biddle
Fine Jewelers has expanded its presence in the luxury market through its e-commerce site,
 baileybanksandbiddle.com . Peoples Jewellers    and Mappins Jewellers    offer moderately priced
jewelry in malls throughout Canada. During fiscal year 2006, our Fine Jewelry segment generated
$2.1 billion of net revenues.

The Kiosk Jewelry segment operates primarily under the brand names Piercing Pagoda   , Plumb
Gold , Silver and Gold Connection   , (in the U.S.) and Peoples II  (in Canada) through mall based
kiosks and carts and reaches the opening price point select jewelry customer. The Kiosk Jewelry
segment specializes in gold and silver products that capitalize on the latest fashion trends.
During fiscal year 2006, our Kiosk Jewelry segment generated $267.7 million of net revenues.

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes are those of our business
as of and for the twelve month periods ended July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005. We consolidate
substantially all of our U.S. operations into Zale Delaware, Inc. ( ZDel ), a wholly owned
subsidiary of Zale Corporation. ZDel is the parent company for several subsidiaries, including
three that are engaged primarily in providing credit insurance to our credit customers. We
consolidate our Canadian retail operations into Zale International, Inc., which is a wholly owned
subsidiary of Zale Corporation. All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated.

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Use of Estimates.   Our accounting and financial reporting policies are in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
estimates. For example, unexpected changes in market conditions or a downturn in the economy could
adversely affect actual results. Estimates are used in accounting for, among other things,
inventory valuation, goodwill and long lived asset valuation, last-in, first-out ( LIFO ) inventory
retail method, legal liability, credit insurance liability, product warranty, depreciation,
employee benefits, workers  compensation, tax, and contingencies. Estimates and assumptions are
reviewed periodically and the effects of revisions are reflected in the consolidated financial
statements in the period they are determined to be necessary.

F - 11 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Cash and Cash Equivalents.   Cash and Cash Equivalents includes cash on hand, deposits in banks
and short-term marketable securities at varying interest rates with maturities of three months or
less. The carrying amount approximates fair value because of the short-term maturity of those
instruments.

Merchandise Inventories.   Merchandise inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.
Substantially all U.S. inventories represent finished goods which are valued using the LIFO retail
inventory method. Merchandise inventory of Peoples Jewellers and Mappins Jewellers of Canada is
valued using the first-in, first-out ( FIFO ) retail inventory method. Under the retail method,
inventory is segregated into categories of merchandise with similar characteristics at its current
average retail selling value. The determination of inventory at cost and the resulting gross
margins are calculated by applying an average cost-to-retail ratio to the retail value of
inventory. At the end of fiscal year 2006, approximately seven percent of our total inventory
represented raw materials and other inventory associated with internally sourced product. This
inventory is valued at the weighted average cost of the items.

We are required to determine the LIFO cost on an interim basis by estimating annual inflation
trends, annual purchases and ending inventory levels for the fiscal year. Actual annual inflation
rates and inventory balances as of the end of any fiscal year may differ from interim estimates.
We apply internally developed indices that we believe accurately and consistently measure inflation
or deflation in the components of our merchandise (i.e., the proper weighting of diamonds, gold and
other metals and precious stones) and our overall merchandise mix. We believe our internally
developed indices more accurately reflect inflation or deflation in our own prices than the U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics ( BLS ) producer price indices or other published indices.

We also write-down our inventory for discontinued, slow-moving and damaged inventory. This
write-down is equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and its estimated market value
based upon assumptions of targeted inventory turn rates, future demand, management strategy, and
market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by
management or management strategy changes, additional inventory write-downs may be required and, in
the case of a major change in strategy or downturn in market conditions, such write-downs could be
significant. For example, in fiscal year 2006, we recorded inventory write-downs of $27 million
resulting from the decision to accelerate the clearance of previously discontinued merchandise
assortments and $6 million to the closure of Bailey
Banks   Biddle stores.

Shrinkage is estimated for the period from the last inventory date to the end of the fiscal
year on a store by store basis. Such estimates are based on experience and the shrinkage results
from the last physical inventory. Physical inventories are taken at least once annually for all
store locations and for the distribution centers. The shrinkage rate from the most recent physical
inventory, in combination with historical experience and significant changes in physical inventory
results could impact our shrinkage reserve.

Long-lived Assets and Goodwill   .  Long-lived assets are periodically reviewed for impairment by
comparing the carrying value of the assets with their estimated undiscounted future cashflows. If
the evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable, the
potential impairment is measured based on a projected discounted cash flow method, using a discount
rate that is considered to be commensurate with the risk inherent in our current business model.
Assumptions are made with respect to cash flows expected to be generated by the related assets
based upon updated projections. Any changes in key assumptions, particularly store performance or
market conditions, could result in an unanticipated impairment charge. For instance, in the event
of a major market downturn or adverse developments within a
particular market or portion of our business, individual stores may become unprofitable, which could result in a
write-down of the carrying value of the assets located in those stores. Any impairment would be
recognized in operating results if a permanent reduction were to occur. See  Property and
Equipment  herein for the impairment charges recorded in the periods presented.

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 142,  Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets,  we test goodwill for impairment annually, at the end of our second
quarter, or more frequently if events occur which indicate a potential reduction in the fair value
of a reporting unit s net assets below its carrying value. An impairment is deemed to exist if the
estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than its net book value. We calculate estimated
fair value using the present value of future cash flows expected to be generated using a weighted
average cost of capital and updated financial

F - 12 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

projections. Based upon the amounts currently recorded as goodwill, recent performance and
estimated projections, we believe the likelihood of additional impairment would not be material.
However, a significant change in the related brand s performance, such as the closing of a majority
of the brand s stores, could result in additional impairment. In the second quarter of fiscal year
2006, we performed our annual review for impairment of goodwill related to our Piercing
Pagoda, People s Jewellers and other smaller acquisitions. We concluded that there was no
evidence of impairment related to the goodwill of approximately $19.4 million for the Piercing
Pagoda acquisition, $71.9 million recorded for the People s Jewellers acquisition and $5.0 million
for other smaller acquisitions.

Cost of Sales  . Cost of sales includes cost of merchandise sold, as well as receiving and
distribution costs.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.   Included in Selling, General and Administrative
Expenses ( SG A ) are store operating, advertising, buying and general corporate overhead expenses.

Operating
Leases.   Rent expense is recognized on a straight-line basis, including
consideration of rent holidays, tenant improvement allowances received from the landlords, and
applicable rent escalations over the term of the lease. The commencement date of the rent expense
is the earlier of the date when we become legally obligated for the rent payments or the
date when we take possession of the building for purposes of constructing the build-out.

Depreciation and Amortization.   Depreciation and amortization are computed using the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets or remaining lease life,
whichever is shorter. Estimated useful lives of the assets range from three to twelve years.

Original cost and related accumulated depreciation or amortization is removed from the
accounts in the year assets are retired. Gains or losses on dispositions of property and equipment
are included in operations in the year of disposal. Computer software costs related to the
development of major systems are capitalized and amortized over their useful lives.

Stock Based Compensation.   Prior to fiscal year 2006, we accounted for our stock incentive
plans under the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB No. 25 ) and related interpretations,
Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Statement No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,  ( SFAS No. 123 ), and complied with the disclosure provisions of FASB Statement No.
148,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, and Amendment of FASB
Statement No. 123. 

Effective August 1, 2005, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
(revised),  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS No. 123(R) ), which requires the use of the fair value
method of accounting for all stock-based compensation, including stock options. SFAS No. 123(R)
was adopted using the modified prospective method. Under this method, in addition to reflecting
compensation expense for new share-based awards, expense is also recognized for those awards
vesting in the current period based on the value that had been included in pro forma disclosures in
prior periods. Results from prior periods have not been restated.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), we presented all benefits of tax deductions
resulting from the exercise of share-based compensation as operating cash flows in the Statements
of Cash Flows. SFAS No. 123(R) requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of the
compensation cost recognized for those options (excess tax benefits) to be classified as financing
cash flows. We have elected to calculate the SFAS No. 123(R) APIC pool under FSP123R-(3)
( simplified method ).

F - 13 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Stock Based Compensation (continued)  

Had share-based compensation expense been determined based upon the fair values at the grant
dates for awards under our stock incentive plans in accordance SFAS No. 123(R) in the years ended
July 31, 2005 and 2004, our pro forma net earnings, basic and diluted earnings per common share
would have been as follows:

Revenue Recognition.   We recognize revenue in accordance with the Securities and Exchange
Commission s Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104,  Revenue Recognition  ( SAB 104 ). Revenue related
to merchandise sales, which is approximately 94 percent of total revenues, is recognized at the
time of the sale, reduced by a provision for sales returns. The provision for sales returns is
based on historical evidence of our return rate. Repair revenues are recognized when the service is
complete and the merchandise is delivered to the customers. Total revenues include two warranty
programs: extended service agreements ( ESAs ) that cover sizing and breakage for a two-year
period on certain products purchased from us, and sales from a diamond commitment program ( DCP )
that offers a traditional warranty to cover sizing and breakage for a 12-month period, as well as
theft replacement coverage for the same 12-month period. The revenues from these agreements are
recognized over the service period at the rates the related costs are expected to be incurred in
performing covered services under the agreements. Any significant change in the proportion of
costs expected to be incurred in performing services under the agreements could result in a change
in the amount of revenue recognized. For instance, a five percent change on an annual basis in the
timing of services under these agreements could result in a five percent change in the revenue
recognized. Revenues also include premiums from our insurance business, principally related to
credit insurance policies sold to customers who purchase our merchandise under the proprietary
credit program. Insurance premiums are recognized over the coverage period.

F - 14 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Credit Insurance Operations   .  Insurance premium revenue from credit insurance subsidiaries was
$13.1 million, $12.9 million and $12.6 million for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. These revenues are included in total revenues on the accompanying consolidated
statement of operations.

The associated cost of insurance operations was $6.7 million, $6.1 million and $6.0 million
for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Advertising Expenses.   Advertising is expensed when incurred and is a component of SG A. All
related production costs are expensed upon the first occurrence of the advertisement. Advertising
expenses were $106.2 million, $93.2 million and $83.7 million for the fiscal years ended July 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, net of amounts contributed to us by vendors. The amounts of
prepaid advertising at July 31, 2006 and 2005, are $16.5 million and $9.8 million, respectively,
and are classified as components of other current assets in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets.

Vendor Allowances   .  We receive cash or allowances from merchandise vendors primarily in
connection with cooperative advertising programs and reimbursements for markdowns taken to sell the
vendor s products. We have agreements in place with each vendor setting forth the specific
conditions for each allowance or payment. The majority of these agreements are entered into or
renewed annually at the beginning of each fiscal year. We follow EITF 02-16,  Accounting by a
Reseller (including a Retailer) for Cash Consideration Received from a Vendor , under which
qualifying vendor reimbursements of costs incurred to specifically advertise vendors  products are
recorded as a reduction of advertising expense, which is a component of SG A.

Foreign Currency.   Translation adjustments result from translating foreign subsidiaries 
financial statements into U.S. dollars. Balance sheet accounts are translated at exchange rates in
effect at the balance sheet date. Income statement accounts are translated at average exchange
rates during the year. Resulting translation adjustments are included as a component of
comprehensive income (loss) in the accompanying consolidated statements of stockholders 
investment.

Derivative Financial Instruments   .  We recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or
liabilities in the statement of financial position measured at fair value. We do not utilize
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

We enter into forward contracts for the purchase of gold and silver in order to reduce the
effects of fluctuating costs of these commodities. We generally hedge certain planned inventory purchases
covering a designated period of no longer than twelve months and amounts consistent with our
identified exposure. The purpose of the hedging activities is to minimize the effect of unknown
commodity price movements on planned cash flows and to enable us to maintain a consistent and predictable
pricing strategy. All forward contracts are currently with four financial institutions rated as
investment grade by a major rating agency. No fees or up front payments are required when using
these commodity forwards. These contracts settle on a net basis.

We
currently account for these forward contracts as undesignated derivative
instruments. Accounting
for our forward contracts as derivatives instead of hedges does not
affect the underlying
economics of our risk management strategies and has no impact on the timing or amount of cash flows
under any derivative contract. The fair value of our derivative instruments is included in the consolidated balance
sheets. These fair values are obtained from outside counterparties and verified with internal
discounted cash flow models. During the term of the contracts, any changes in the fair value of
derivative instruments are reported in derivative (gains)/losses on the consolidated statements of
operations .  The fair market value of these instruments is subject to the changes in the value of
the underlying commodity. In the year ended July 31, 2006, gold fluctuated significantly, between
a low of $432 per ounce to a high of $715 per ounce. At July 31, 2006, the price of gold was $637
per ounce. Based on our outstanding contracts as of July 31, 2006, we would record a derivatives
gain before taxes of approximately $15 million if gold prices increase to the 2006 high (a 12
percent increase from the July 31, 2006 price). In turn, if gold prices were to decrease to the
2006 low (a 32 percent decrease from the July 31, 2006 price), we would record a derivatives loss
before taxes of approximately $45 million.

At
July 31, 2006, the mark-to-market value of our outstanding
forward contracts was a net loss before
taxes of $1.3 million. As of October 9, 2006, the market
price of gold had decreased to $577 per
ounce. Based on our contracts outstanding as of July 31, 2006, such a decrease would result in a
derivatives loss before taxes of approximately $15 million. While we realize a gain or loss on the
derivative contract, we typically see a compensating gain or loss in the purchase cost of our
products.

We have classified cash activity associated with derivatives as an operating activity in the
consolidated statement of cash flows.

We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce the effects of fluctuating
currency exchange rates. We enter into forward currency exchange contracts with terms that are no
longer than twelve months. These contracts are used to hedge certain forecasted inventory,
advertising, and purchases relating to real estate activities anticipated to be incurred each
fiscal year, denominated in foreign currencies for periods and amounts consistent with our
identified exposures. The purpose of the hedging activities is to minimize the effect of foreign
exchange rate movements on cash flows. When utilized, all foreign exchange contracts are
denominated in Canadian dollars and are with financial institutions rated as investment grade by a
major rating agency. No fees or up front payments are required when using these foreign exchange
contracts.

F - 15 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Reclassifications.   The classifications in use at July 31, 2006 have been applied to the
financial statements for July 31, 2005 and 2004.

Merchandise Inventories 

Our U.S. operations use the LIFO retail method of accounting for inventory. The LIFO charge
was $5.8 million, $3.5 million and $2.3 million for the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. The cumulative LIFO provision reflected on the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets was $29.1 million and $23.3 million at July 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Domestic
inventories on a FIFO basis were $844.4 million and $804.2 million at July 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. We apply internally developed indices that we believe accurately and consistently
measure inflation or deflation in the components of our merchandise (i.e., the proper weighting of
diamonds, gold and other metals and precious stones) and our overall merchandise mix. We believe
our internally developed indices more accurately reflect inflation or deflation in our own prices
than the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics ( BLS ) producer price indices or other published indices.

Our Canadian operations use the FIFO retail method of accounting for inventory. Inventory,
net of reserves, was approximately $88.0 million and $72.6 million at July 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.

Consigned inventory and related contingent obligations are not reflected in our consolidated
financial statements. Consignment inventory has historically consisted of test programs,
merchandise at higher price points, or merchandise that otherwise does not warrant the risk of
outright ownership. Consignment merchandise can be returned to the vendor at any time. At the
time consigned inventory is sold, we record the purchase liability in accounts payable and the
related cost of merchandise in cost of sales. We maintained consolidated consigned inventory at our
retail locations of approximately $175.1 million and $150.9 million at July 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.

Investments 

Investments in debt and equity securities are reported as Other Assets in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets. Investments are recorded at fair value based on quoted market prices.
All long-term debt securities outstanding at July 31, 2006 will contractually mature within 1 to
29 years.

Investments, principally related to our insurance subsidiaries as of July 31, 2006 and 2005
were as follows:

F - 16 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

All investments are classified as available for sale. At July 31, 2006 and 2005, the carrying
value of investments included net unrealized losses of approximately ($400,000) and ($500,000),
respectively, which are included in other comprehensive income (loss). The net realized gain on
investments totaled $91,000 in fiscal year 2006, $400,000 in fiscal year 2005 and $300,000 in
fiscal year 2004, as determined on a specific identification basis. Investments with a carrying
value of $6.2 million and $4.3 million were on deposit with various state insurance departments at
July 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, as required by law.

Property And Equipment 

Our property and equipment consists of the following:

Depreciation expense of $59.8 million, $59.8 million and $56.4 million, respectively, was
recorded at July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Property and equipment are depreciated over the
estimated useful lives of the assets. Useful lives for leasehold improvements and furniture and
fixtures are the remaining term of the lease and three to twelve years, respectively.

We
recorded impairment charges of $19.1 million, $1.5 million, and $0.9 million for the fiscal
years ended July 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, related to unproductive assets. In fiscal
year 2006, impairments included $4.1 million related to certain
test stores, $5.2 million
related to the terminated information technology initiative and
$8.4 million related to the closed Bailey Banks & Biddle
stores. These impairment charges, primarily
in the Fine Jewelry segment, are included in SG A and resulted from our ongoing process to evaluate
the productivity of our asset base.

Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities 

Our accounts payable and accrued liabilities consist of the following:

Non-Current Liabilities 

Our non-current liabilities consist principally of the loss reserves for insurance
subsidiaries, reserves for tax contingencies and the long-term portion of the incentive payment
received from Citi described below, recognized as deferred income.

F - 17 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Deferred Credit.   In connection with the sale of our customer receivables in fiscal year 2000,
we entered into a ten year merchant services agreement whereby Citibank U.S.A., NA ( Citi ) will
issue private label credit cards branded with appropriate Company trademarks. Citi provides
financing for our customers to purchase merchandise in exchange for payment by us of a merchant fee
based upon a percentage of each credit card sale. The merchant fee is a flat percentage per credit
sale for standard revolving accounts and varies for certain special interest free or deferred
payment credit sales, depending on the credit program. We received a $41.8 million incentive for
entering into the agreement, the non-current portion of which is classified as a non-current
liability on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. This incentive payment is recognized
ratably over the term of the agreement. Deferred credits of $16.7 million and $20.9 million are
included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at July 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The long-term portion of the deferred credits is $12.5 million and $16.7 million at July 31, 2006
and 2005, respectively.

Post-retirement Benefits.   Effective March 31, 2006, we terminated our post-retirement
insurance program. As a result of the termination, we recognized a benefit of $13.4 million.
Prior to the termination we provided medical, dental, and vision insurance benefits for all
eligible retirees and spouses who retired prior to April 1, 2002 with benefits to the latter
continuing after the death of the retiree.

F - 18 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Postretirement Benefits (continued)  

F - 19 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

The measurement date used to determine the benefit obligation was July 31, 2005. The health
care cost trend rate as of July 31, 2005 was 0.0 percent, as dictated by the plan design change in
January 2003.

Components of net periodic (benefit) cost:

Non-Qualified Retirement Plan  

We have a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  Plan ). The Plan provides eligible
executives with the opportunity to receive payments each year after retirement equal to a portion
of their final average pay as defined by the Plan. Effective August 1, 2000, the eligibility
requirements were changed to include corporate vice-presidents, division presidents, and division
senior vice-presidents. The benefits provided by this plan are funded by corporate-owned life
insurance policies. There is no material impact to the financial statements from this Plan.

Long-Term Debt 

Revolving Credit Agreement.   We have a U.S. revolving credit facility (the  Revolving Credit
Agreement ) that provides us up to $500 million in commitments by a group of lenders, including a
$20 million sublimit for letters of credit. The Revolving Credit Agreement is primarily secured by
our U.S. merchandise inventory. On January 17, 2006, we amended the Revolving Credit Agreement to
allow certain U.S. affiliates to guarantee up to CAD $40 million for a revolving credit agreement
in the name of Zale Canada Co., to guarantee up to $20 million for other subsidiaries, and to
increase the Administrative Agent s flexibility in waiving annual audits and inventory appraisals
based on our performance under the Revolving Credit Agreement. The amendment extends the terms of
the Revolving Credit Agreement through August 11, 2009.

The loans made under the Revolving Credit Agreement bear interest at a floating rate at either
(i) the applicable LIBOR (as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement) plus the applicable margin,
or (ii) the Base Rate (as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement) plus the applicable margin.
The margin applicable to LIBOR based loans and standby letter of credit commission rates will be
automatically reduced or increased from time to time based upon excess borrowing availability under
the Revolving Credit Agreement. We pay a quarterly commitment fee of 0.25 percent on the preceding
month s unused commitment. We and our subsidiaries may repay the revolving credit loans
outstanding under the Revolving Credit Agreement at any time without penalty prior to the maturity
date. For the year ended July 31, 2006, the weighted average effective interest rate was 5.80
percent as compared to 3.80 percent for the year ended July 31, 2005. The applicable margin for
LIBOR based loans was 1.25 percent at July 31, 2006 and 2005; and the applicable margin for Base
Rate loans was zero percent at July 31, 2006 and 2005. At July 31, 2006 and 2005, $186.1 and
$129.8 million, respectively, were outstanding under the Revolving Credit Agreement. Based on the
terms of the Revolving Credit Agreement, we had approximately $313.9 million and $370.2 million in
available borrowings at July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, respectively. The
maximum amount outstanding under the Revolving Credit Agreement during fiscal year 2006 was
$315.0 million and during fiscal year 2005 was $327.9 million.

F - 20 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

At any time, if remaining borrowing availability under the Revolving Credit Agreement falls
below $75 million, we will be restricted in our ability to repurchase stock or pay dividends. If
remaining borrowing availability falls below $50 million, we will be required to meet a minimum
fixed charge coverage ratio. The Revolving Credit Agreement requires us to comply with certain
restrictive covenants including, among other things, limitations on indebtedness, investments,
liens, acquisitions, and asset sales. We are currently in compliance with all of our obligations
under the Revolving Credit Agreement.

Zale Canada Co. entered into a revolving credit agreement (the  Canadian Revolving Credit
Agreement ) on January 17, 2006 with a maturity date of August 11, 2009. The Canadian Revolving
Credit Agreement provides us up to CAD $30 million in commitments by Bank of America (acting
through its Canadian branch). The Canadian Revolving Credit Agreement is secured by a guaranty
from certain U.S. affiliates.

The loans made under the Canadian Revolving Credit Agreement bear interest at a floating rate
at either (i) the applicable BA rate (as defined in the Canadian Revolving Credit Agreement) plus
the applicable margin, or (ii) the Base Rate (as defined in the Canadian Revolving Credit
Agreement) plus the applicable margin. The margin applicable to BA based loans is equivalent to
the margin for LIBOR based loans as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement. Zale Canada Co.
pays a quarterly commitment fee of 0.25 percent on the preceding month s unused commitment. Zale
Canada Co. may repay the revolving credit loans outstanding under the Canadian Revolving Credit
Agreement at any time without penalty prior to the maturity date. At July 31, 2006, CAD $18.9
million was outstanding under the Canadian Revolving Credit Agreement. For the year ended July 31,
2006, the weighted average effective interest rate was 5.49 percent. The applicable margin for BA
based loans was 1.25 percent at July 31, 2006, and the applicable margin for Base Rate loans was
zero percent at July 31, 2006. Based on the terms of the Canadian Revolving Credit Agreement, we
had approximately CAD $11.1 million in available borrowings at July 31, 2006.

Lease Commitments 

We rent most of our retail space under leases that generally range from five to ten years and
may contain minimum rent escalations, while kiosk leases generally range from three to five years
and carts from 12-18 months. Our headquarters lease extends until 2018. We recognize the minimum
rent payments evenly across the period, including the construction period, through the end of the
lease term. Lease incentives of $1.4 million for reimbursement of certain leasehold improvement
expenditures are being amortized against lease payments over the life of the lease. All existing
real estate leases are treated as operating leases. Sublease rental income under noncancelable
leases is not material.

Rent expense is included in SG A.

Contingent rentals paid to lessors of certain store facilities are determined principally on
the basis of a percentage of sales in excess of contractual limits.

F - 21 

Table of Contents   

ZALE
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Future
minimum rent commitments as of July 31, 2006, for all noncancelable leases of ongoing
operations were as follows:

Interest 

Interest expense for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $11.8 million,
$8.4 million and $8.3 million, respectively.

Interest income for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $0.6 million, $0.6
million and $0.8 million, respectively.

Income Taxes 

Currently, we file a consolidated income tax return. The effective income tax rate varies from
the federal statutory rate of 35 percent as follows:

(1)  
       
     During fiscal year 2006, we repatriated $47.6 million under section 965 of the
AJCA, realizing an income tax benefit of $11.9 million. Additionally, management is not certain
all future foreign earnings will be permanently reinvested outside the U.S.; therefore, a $5.1
million liability related to the potential income tax on the remaining undistributed earnings
offsets the benefit under section 965. 

(2)  
       
     During fiscal year 2006, Canada enacted new tax rates. The decrease in the
revised tax rates resulted in an income tax benefit of approximately $1.9 million. 

(3)  
       
     During fiscal year 2006, we realized $1.4 million of additional foreign tax
credits. 

F - 22 

Table of Contents   

ZALE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

As of July 31, 2006, we have a tax net operating loss carryforward ( NOL ) (after limitations)
of $40.0 million which represents up to $14.0 million in future tax benefits. The utilization of
this asset is subject to limitations. The most restrictive is the Internal Revenue Code Section 382
annual limitation of $19.5 million. The NOL carryforward can be utilized through fiscal year 2008.

F - 23 

Table of Contents   

ZALE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on estimated future tax effects
of the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using
enacted tax rates. Tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant components
of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at July 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively,
are presented below.

A valuation allowance must be provided when it is more likely than not that the deferred
income tax asset will not be realized. We believe that, as of July 31, 2006 and 2005, the
realization of our gross deferred income tax assets is more likely than not, and thus, there was
no valuation reserve recorded.

F - 24 

Table of Contents   

ZALE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Capital Stock 

Common Stock.   At July 31, 2006, 150,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share
( common stock ) were authorized, 53,645,553 shares of common stock were issued and 48,174,379
shares of common stock were outstanding. At July 31, 2005, 150,000,000 shares of common stock were
authorized and 53,055,799 shares were issued and 51,238,543 shares of common stock were
outstanding.

Stock Split.   On May 18, 2004, we announced our Board of Directors had approved a two-for-one
split of the common stock. The stock split was affected by issuing an additional share of common
stock for each outstanding share of that common stock. The additional shares were distributed June
8, 2004 to shareholders of record at the close of business on May 28, 2004. Accordingly we have
restated our earnings (loss) per share calculations, as well as reclassified amounts between common
stock and additional-paid-in-capital to reflect the impact of the stock split of the outstanding
common stock for all periods presented. In accounting for the stock split, 16.3 million shares of
treasury stock were deemed reissued and an additional 9.6 million shares were issued. As the
treasury shares that were reissued as part of the stock split had been purchased by us during
fiscal year 2004 and previous fiscal years, treasury stock has only been reclassified to show the
effect of the stock split as of July 31, 2004.

Preferred Stock.   At July 31, 2006 and 2005, 5,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value of
$0.01, were authorized. None was issued or outstanding.

Treasury Stock.   We use the par value method of accounting for treasury stock. At July 31,
2006, we held 5,551,174 shares of treasury stock.

During the fiscal year ended July 31, 2005, we repurchased approximately 2.8 million shares of
our common stock at an aggregate cost of $50 million. During fiscal year 2006, we repurchased
approximately 3.7 million shares of our common stock at an aggregate cost of $100 million.

Incentive Stock Plan.   As of July 31, 2006, we had four stock incentive plans under which
there were outstanding awards: the Zale Corporation Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan (the  Omnibus
Plan ), the Zale Corporation Outside Directors  1995 Stock Option Plan (the  Directors  Plan ), the
Zale Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Incentive Plan ), and the Zale Corporation Outside
Directors  2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  2005 Directors  Plan ). Under these plans, exercised
share options are issued as new shares of common stock.

The Omnibus Plan expired with respect to new grants on July 30, 2003, and was replaced by the
Incentive Plan. Options granted under the Incentive Plan (i) are granted at an exercise price no
less than the fair market value of the shares of common stock into which such options are
exercisable, (ii) generally vest ratably over a four-year vesting period and (iii) generally expire
ten years from the date of grant. Restricted stock granted under the Incentive Plan generally
vests on the third anniversary of the grant date and is subject to restrictions on sale or
transfer. The Incentive Plan was amended on November 11, 2005 to allow for the grant of
time-vesting and performance-based restricted stock units, which entitle the holder to receive, at
a specified future date, a specified or determinable number of shares of common stock. In the sole
discretion of the Compensation Committee, in lieu of a payout of shares of common stock, the holder
of a restricted stock unit may receive a cash payment equal to the fair market value of the number
of shares of common stock the holder otherwise would receive under the restricted stock unit.
Time-vesting restricted stock units granted under the Incentive Plan generally vest on the third
anniversary of the grant date and are subject to restrictions on sale or transfer.
Performance-based restricted stock units granted entitle the holder to receive a specified number
of shares of our common stock based on our achievement of performance targets established by the
Compensation Committee. If we fail to meet the specified performance targets, the holder will not
receive any shares of common stock under the performance-based restricted stock units, or, if we
substantially exceed the targets, the holder may receive up to two hundred percent of the units
granted. As of July 31, 2006, 4,043,048 incentive awards were available for grant under the
Incentive Plan, and 3,206,944 options, restricted stock shares, and restricted stock units were
outstanding for the Omnibus Plan and the Incentive Plan combined.

F - 25 

Table of Contents   

ZALE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

The Directors  Plan expired with respect to new grants on November 3, 2005, and was replaced
by the 2005 Directors  Plan. The 2005 Directors  Plan authorizes us to grant options to
non-employee directors at the fair market value of the common stock on the date of the grant.
Options granted under the 2005 Directors  Plan vest ratably over a four-year period and expire ten
years from the date of grant. The 2005 Directors  Plan also authorizes restricted stock grants,
which vest on the first anniversary of the grant date and are subject to restrictions on sale or
transfer. As of July 31, 2006, 218,200 incentive awards were available for grant under the 2005
Directors  Plan, and 186,800 options and restricted stock shares were outstanding for the
Directors  Plan and the 2005 Directors  Plan on a combined basis.

We recognized share-based compensation expense related to stock options of $5.3 million before
taxes for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006, as a component of SG A. As of July 31, 2006, there
was $16.1 million (before related tax benefit) of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
non-vested share-based compensation that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
period of 3.2 years.

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option pricing model. The expected life of the options represents the period of time the options
are expected to be outstanding and is based on historical trends.

The following table presents the weighted-average assumptions used in the option pricing model
for stock option grants in fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004:

Stock option transactions are summarized as follows:

F - 26 

Table of Contents   

ZALE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at July 31, 2006.

Intrinsic value for stock options is defined as the difference between the current market
value and the grant price. For the periods ended July 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, the total
intrinsic value of stock options exercised was $4.7 million, $10.5 million, and $21.9 million,
respectively. For the periods ended July 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, the fair value of the options
vested was approximately $7.2 million, $6.9 million and $4.2 million respectively. Cash received
from stock options exercised during the period ended July 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 was
approximately $10.7 million, $17.7 million, and $39.6 million, respectively.

In addition to stock options, we had outstanding restricted stock and restricted stock units
granted under the Incentive Plan. We recognized share based compensation expense related to
restricted stock of approximately $1.2 million, $660,000, and $0.0 in the periods ended July 31,
2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. The following table summarizes restricted stock and stock unit activity from the
Incentive Plan and the 2005 Directors  Plan for the periods ended July 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004:

As of July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, 1,878,819, 1,440,594, and 1,457,457 of options
outstanding were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of $22.19, $20.23, and $19.52,
respectively.

F - 27 

Table of Contents   

ZALE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Earnings Per Common Share 

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings available to common stockholders
by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the reporting period. Diluted
earnings per share of common stock reflect the potential dilution that could occur if securities or
other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock. Outstanding
stock options issued by us represent the only dilutive effect reflected in diluted weighted average
shares. After giving effect to the stock
split in fiscal year 2004, for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, there were
antidilutive common stock equivalents of 1,911,563, 27,119, and 26,530 respectively.

Comprehensive Income 

Comprehensive income represents the change in equity during a period from transactions and
other events, except those resulting from investments by and distributions to stockholders. The
components of comprehensive income are reported in the accompanying consolidated statements of
stockholders  investment. Income taxes are generally not provided for foreign currency
translation adjustments, as such adjustments relate to permanent investments in international
subsidiaries.

Segments 

We report our operations under three business segments: Fine Jewelry, Kiosk Jewelry, and All
Other. All corresponding items of segment information in prior periods have been presented
consistently.

The Fine Jewelry segment consists of six principal brands, which sell diamonds, gemstone, gold
jewelry and watches. These six brands have been aggregated into one reportable segment. The Kiosk
Jewelry segment operates primarily under the brand names Piercing Pagoda   , Plumb Gold , Silver and
Gold Connection   , (in the U.S.) and Peoples II  (in Canada) through mall based kiosks and carts and
reaches the opening price point select jewelry customer. The Kiosk Jewelry segment specializes in
gold and silver products that capitalize on the latest fashion trends. The All Other segment
includes credit insurance operations, which provide offerings of insurance coverage primarily to
our private label credit card customers. Management s expectation is that overall economics of
each of our major concepts within each reportable segment will be similar over time.

F - 28 

Table of Contents   

ZALE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

The reportable segments are groups of brands that offer merchandise with similar commodity
characteristics and merchandise mix. Segment revenues are not provided by product type or
geographically as we believe such disclosure would not add meaningful value and is not consistent
with the manner in which we make decisions.

We use earnings before unallocated corporate overhead, interest and taxes but including an
internal charge for inventory carrying cost to evaluate segment profitability. Unallocated costs
before income taxes include corporate employee related costs, administrative costs, information
technology costs, corporate facilities and depreciation expense.

Income tax information by segment has not been included as taxes are calculated at a
company-wide level and not allocated to each segment.

F - 29 

Table of Contents   

ZALE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Commitments and Contingencies 

We are involved in a number of legal and governmental proceedings as part of the normal course
of business. Reserves have been established based on management s best estimates of our potential
liability in these matters. These estimates have been developed in consultation with internal and
external counsel and are based on a combination of litigation and settlement strategies.
Management
believes that such litigation and claims will be resolved without material effect to our
financial position or results of operations.

New Accounting Pronouncements 

FASB Interpretation No. 48.   The Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) released
Interpretation 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes,  in June 2006. Interpretation 48
supplements FASB Statement 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes,  by defining the threshold for
recognizing the benefits of tax positions in the financial statements. Interpretation 48 is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. Therefore, we will adopt
Interpretation 48 for fiscal year ending July 31, 2008. At adoption, our financial statements will
be adjusted to reflect those positions that are more-likely-than-not to be sustained at the
adoption date. We will record any necessary adjustments directly to retained earnings on August 1,
2007 as a change in accounting principle. Over the next fiscal year, we will begin the process of
reassessing our worldwide historical tax positions in order to apply Interpretation 48. At this
time, we do not anticipate this will result in a material adjustment to our results of operations,
balance sheet or cashflows.

Guarantee Obligations 

In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 45 ( FIN 45 ),
 Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees
of Indebtedness of Others,  specific credit and product warranty programs are subject to the
following disclosure in interim and annual financial statements.

Credit Programs.   Citibank U.S.A., N.A. ( Citi ), a subsidiary of CitiGroup, provides
financing to our customers through our private label credit card program in exchange for payment by
us of a merchant fee (subject to periodic adjustment) based on a percentage of each credit card
sale. The receivables established through the issuance of credit by Citi are originated and owned
by Citi. Losses related to a  standard credit account  (an account within the credit limit
approved under the original merchant agreement between us and Citi) are assumed entirely by Citi
without recourse to us, except where a Company employee violates the credit procedures agreed to in
the merchant agreement.

In an effort to better service customers, we and Citi developed a program that extends credit
to qualifying customers above the approved credit amount (the  Shared Risk Program ). The
extension of incremental credit is at our discretion to accommodate larger sales transactions. We
bear the responsibility

F - 30 

Table of Contents   

ZALE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

of customer default losses related to the Shared Risk Program, as defined in the agreement
with Citi.

Under the Shared Risk Program, we incurred approximately $107,000 in losses for fiscal year
2006, compared to losses of $28,000 for the previous fiscal year, and believe that future losses
will not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.

Product Warranty Programs.   We sell ESAs to customers to cover sizing and breakage for a
two-year period on certain products purchased from us. In fiscal year 2006, we began to offer a
diamond commitment program ( DCP ) that offers a traditional warranty to cover sizing and breakage
for a 12-month period, as well as theft replacement coverage for the same 12-month period. The
revenue from these agreements is recognized over the service period at the rates the related costs
are expected to be incurred in performing the covered services. We also provide warranty services
that cover diamond replacement costs on certain diamond merchandise sold as long as the customer
follows certain inspection practices over the time of ownership of the merchandise. We have
established a reserve for potential non-ESA warranty issues based on actual historical expenses.

The changes in our product warranty liability for the reporting periods are as follows:

Benefit Plans 

Defined Contribution Retirement Plan. We maintain the Zale Corporation Savings   Investment
Plan (the  Investment Plan ). As amended and restated in fiscal year 2006, it allows all employees
who are at least age 21 to participate in the Investment Plan, although new employees are required
to complete one year of continuous service with us to be eligible to participate. Each employee
can contribute from one percent to 60 percent of his or her annual salary subject to IRS
limitations, (30 percent for highly-compensated employees). Employees who have not otherwise
elected will be automatically enrolled in the Investment Plan at a contribution rate of two percent
upon satisfying all eligibility requirements. Through February 2002, we matched one dollar in
common stock for every dollar an employee contributes to the plan up to four percent of annual
compensation, subject to Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) limitations. Effective March 1, 2002, we
match $0.50 in common stock or cash for every dollar an employee contributes to the plan up to four
percent of annual compensation subject to IRS limitations.

Through February 2002, matching contributions were made on a monthly basis. Effective March
1, 2002, matching contributions are made on an annual basis, and employees must be employed with us
on the last day of the plan year to receive our matching contributions. Employees vest in our
matched contributions immediately. Our provisions for matching contributions were $2.1 million,
$2.1 million and $2.7 million for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Financial Instruments 

As cash and short-term cash investments, trade payables and certain other short-term financial
instruments are all short-term in nature, their carrying amount approximates fair value.

The
fair value of our derivative instruments is included in the
consolidated balance sheets. These fair values are obtained from
outside counterparties and verified with internal discounted cash
flow models. During the term of these contracts, any changes in the
fair value of derivative instruments are reported in derivative
(gains)/losses on the consolidated statements of operations.

For fiscal year 2006, the carrying amount of $202.8 million related to the Revolving Credit
Agreement approximates fair value due to the variable interest rate
on long-term debt.

F - 31 

Table of Contents   

ZALE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

The investments of our insurance subsidiaries, primarily stocks and bonds in the amount of
$21.9 million and $23.6 million, approximate market value at July 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005,
respectively, and are reflected in Other Assets on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
Investments are classified as available for sale and are carried at fair value.

Concentrations of Business and Credit Risk.   During fiscal years 2006 and 2005, we purchased
approximately 22 percent of our finished merchandise from our top five vendors, including more than
six percent from one vendor in 2006. If supply between us and these top vendors were disrupted,
particularly at certain critical times during the year, our sales could be adversely affected in
the short term until alternative supply arrangements could be established. During fiscal year
2006, our direct sourcing organization accounted for approximately seven percent of our merchandise
requirements. As of July 31, 2006 and 2005, we had no significant concentrations of credit risk.

Subsequent Event.   On September 24, 2006, we announced that Rodney Carter was appointed Chief
Financial Officer and Group Senior Vice President, effective October 16, 2006. Prior to joining
the Company, Mr. Carter was the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of PETCO Animal
Supplies, Inc., and prior to that position, was the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer for CEC Entertainment, Inc.

Other Matters 

SEC Investigation.   On April 10, 2006, we announced that the SEC had initiated a non-public
investigation into various accounting and other matters related to our business, including
accounting for ESAs, leases and accrued payroll. Subpoenas issued in connection with the
investigation requested materials relating to these accounting matters as well as to executive
compensation and severance, earnings guidance, stock trading, and the timing of certain vendor
payments. On September 21, 2006, the staff of the SEC notified us that the investigation of Zale
Corporation had been terminated with no enforcement action being recommended.

Litigation.   We and certain current and former directors and officers are defendants in six
purported class action lawsuits arising, in general, from the matters that the SEC was
investigating. All six lawsuits are in preliminary stages. We are also named as a defendant in a
number of other lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of our business.

Executive
Changes.   Effective January 31, 2006, President and Chief Executive Officer Mary L.
Fort  resigned. Mary E. Burton, a member of our Board of Directors, was appointed Acting Chief
Executive Officer. Subsequently, Ms. Burton was permanently appointed as President and Chief
Executive Officer. She remains as a director of the Company.

Effective February 16, 2006, John Zimmermann was appointed President of Zale North America,
responsible for the Zales Jewelers, Peoples Jewellers, Mappins Jewellers, and Peoples II brands.
Mr. Zimmermann had formerly been President of Zale Canada which included the Peoples Jewellers and
Mappins Jewellers brands.

On March 23, 2006, Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President Sue E. Gove resigned.

On May 5, 2006, Chief Financial Officer and Group Senior Vice President Mark Lenz was placed
on administrative leave. This decision was made after discussions with our outside auditors
concerning Mr. Lenz s failure to timely disclose in conversations with the auditors that vendor
payments scheduled to be made during the last two weeks of our fiscal year ended July 31, 2005 were
delayed until the first week of August 2005. We believe that both cash and accounts payable were
properly reflected on the balance sheet. Mr. Lenz s employment ended on July 31, 2006 upon the
expiration of his employment contract.

On May 5, 2006, George R. Mihalko, Jr. was elected as a director of the Company and agreed to
serve as Acting Chief Administrative Officer and Acting Chief Financial Officer.

F - 32 

Table of Contents   

ZALE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

Bailey Banks   Biddle Store Closings.   During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, we
closed 32 Bailey Banks   Biddle stores, 29 of which were managed by a third party liquidator during
part of or all of the quarter as part of the brand s strategy to improve performance and
profitability. We incurred a total of $21.2 million after taxes or $0.43 per diluted share,
related to the Bailey Banks   Biddle closings for the fiscal year.

A   merican Jobs Creation Act.   On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act (the  AJCA )
was signed into law. The AJCA includes, among other provisions, a special one-time deduction for 85
percent of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated to the U.S. from foreign operations, as
defined in the AJCA. We have a Canadian subsidiary for which we elected to apply this provision to
qualifying earnings repatriations in fiscal year 2006. In January 2006, we executed a Domestic
Repatriation Plan under the provision and repatriated $47.6 million, realizing an income tax
benefit of $11.9 million partially offset by a liability of $5.1 million related to management s
decision not to elect APB 23 for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2006. The net income tax benefit
realized was $6.8 million, or $0.14 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006.

Texas Margin Tax   .  In May 2006, the Texas legislature enacted a new law that changes the
present Texas franchise tax system and replaces it with a new tax system, the Texas margin tax.
The Texas margin tax is a significant change because it generally makes all legal entities subject
to tax, including general and limited partnerships, while the current franchise tax system applies
only to corporations and limited liability companies. We conduct certain operations through Texas
limited partnerships and will become subject to the new Texas margin tax. We will comply with the
Texas margin tax effective January 1, 2008. The computation of the tax liability will be based on
revenues as of July 31, 2007, as reduced by certain deductions.

In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 109, which require that deferred tax assets and
liabilities be adjusted for the effects of new income tax legislation in the period of enactment,
we estimated the net charge to deferred tax expense is immaterial. The estimate is based on the
Texas margin tax law in its current form.

Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited) 

Unaudited quarterly results of operations for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2006 and 2005
were as follows (amounts in thousands except per share data):

F - 33 

Table of Contents   

ZALE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized, as of the 12 th  day of October, 2006.

ZALE CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/ Mary E. Burton

Mary E. Burton  

President and Chief Executive Officer   

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and
appoints Mary E. Burton and George R. Mihalko, Jr., and each of them, as his or her true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full powers and substitution and resubstitution for him or her,
in his or her name place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other
documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents full power and authority to do perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in and about the premises as fully and to all intents and
purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys-in-fact and agents may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

Signature  
       
      Title  
       
      Date  

/s/ Mary E. Burton

President, Chief Executive Officer 

Mary E. Burton

and Director (principal executive
officer of the registrant)

October 12, 2006 

/s/ George R. Mihalko, Jr.

Chief Administrative Officer, Chief 

George Mihalko

Financial Officer and Director
(principal financial officer of the
registrant)

October 12, 2006 

/s/ Cynthia T. Gordon

Senior Vice President, Controller 

Cynthia T. Gordon

(principal accounting officer of the
registrant)

October 12, 2006 

/s/ Richard C. Marcus

Chairman of the Board

October 12, 2006 

Richard C. Marcus

/s/ J. Glen Adams

Director

October 12, 2006 

J. Glen Adams

/s/ John B. Lowe, Jr.

Director

October 12, 2006 

John B. Lowe, Jr.

/s/ Thomas C. Shull

Director

October 12, 2006 

Thomas C. Shull

/s/ David M. Szymanski

Director

October 12, 2006 

David M. Szymanski 

F - 34 

Table of Contents   

ZALE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 

The above list reflects all exhibits filed herewith. See Item 15 for a complete list of our
exhibits, including exhibits incorporated by reference from previous filings.

F - 35 

<EX-4.1(C)>
 2
 d40232exv4w1xcy.htm
 AMENDMENT TO THE REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT

exv4w1xcy 

THIRD AMENDMENT TO   
  CREDIT AGREEMENT  

This Third Amendment to Credit Agreement (the  Third Amendment ) is made as of the
17 th  day of January, by and among

ZALE DELAWARE, INC., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware having a place
of business at 901 W. Walnut Hill Lane, Irving, Texas 75038-1003

ZALE CORPORATION, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware having a place of
business at 901 W. Walnut Hill Lane, Irving, Texas 75038-1003;

DDCC, INC., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware having a place of
business at 101 Convention Center Drive, Suite 850, Las Vegas, Nevada 89109;

TXDC, L.P., a limited partnership organized under the laws of the State of Texas having a place of
business at 901 W. Walnut Hill Lane, Irving, Texas 75038-1003; and

the LENDERS party hereto; and

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as successor by merger to Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent and
Issuing Bank, a national banking association, having a place of business at 40 Broad Street,
Boston, Massachusetts 02109; and

FLEET RETAIL GROUP, LLC (f/k/a Fleet Retail Finance Inc.), as Collateral Agent, a Delaware limited
liability company, having a place of business at 40 Broad Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02109; and

JPMORGAN
CHASE BANK, N.A. successor to Bank One, N.A. and CONGRESS FINANCIAL CORPORATION
(SOUTHWEST), as Co-Syndication Agents,

in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained and benefits to be derived herefrom.

WITNESSETH  

WHEREAS, the Borrowers, the Agents, the Lenders, and the Co-Syndication Agents have entered into a
Credit Agreement dated as of July 23, 2003 (as amended and in effect, the  Credit Agreement  and

WHEREAS, the Borrowers, the Agents, the Lenders, and the Co-Syndication Agents have agreed to amend
certain provisions of the Credit Agreement as set forth herein.

NOW THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:

1 

1. 
       
      Definitions : All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall
have the same meaning herein as in the Credit Agreement. 

2. 
       
      Amendments to Article I . The provisions of Article 1 of the Credit Agreement
are hereby amended as follows: 

a. 
       
     The definition of  Fleet  is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following
substituted in its stead: 

Fleet  means Bank of America, N.A. and its
successors. 

b. 
       
     The definition of  FRF  is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following substituted
in its stead: 

FRF  means Fleet Retail Group, LLC and its successors. 

c. 
       
     The definition of  Obligations  is hereby deleted in its entirety and substituting the
following in its stead: 

Obligations   means (a) Loan Agreement Obligations, ((b) all obligations arising under the Zale
Canada Guaranty, (c) the payment and performance of any transaction with FRF as Collateral Agent,
or Fleet as Administrative Agent, or any of their respective Affiliates, which arises out of any
cash management, depository, investment, letter of credit, interest rate protection or other
Hedging Agreement, or other banking or financial services provided by any such Person, in each
case, in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, as each may be amended from
time to time and (d) the payment and performance of any transaction with any Lender, or any of
their respective Affiliates, which arises out of any interest rate protection or other Hedging
Agreement. 

d. 
       
     The definition of  Reserves  is hereby amended by adding the words  the Zale Canada
Guaranty Reserve  immediately after the words  Consignment A/R Reserve  in the second line thereof. 

e. 
       
     The following new definitions are hereby added to Article I of the Credit Agreement in
appropriate alphabetical order: 

CDN$   means Canadian Dollars. 

Zale Canada Credit Agreement   means that certain Credit Agreement to be dated on or about
January 17, 2006 by and between Zale Canada Co. and Bank of America, N.A. (acting through its
Canada branch), as agent, and the lenders party thereto (as amended and in effect from time to
time). 

2 

Zale Canada Guaranty   means that certain Guaranty to be dated on or about January
17, 2006, by and among the Borrowers in favor of Bank of America, N.A. (acting through its Canada
branch) as administrative agent under the Zale Canada Credit Agreement and the lenders party to
such agreement, to secure the obligations of Zale Canada Co. now existing or hereafter arising
pursuant to the Zale Canada Credit Agreement. 

Zale Canada Guaranty Reserve   means, at any time of calculation, an amount determined by
the Administrative Agent, in its reasonable discretion from time to time, but in no event to exceed
the outstanding obligations of Zale Canada under the Zale Canada Credit Agreement (including
principal, interest, fees, indemnities, and expense reimbursements). 

3. 
       
      Amendments to Article II . The provisions of Article II of the Credit Agreement
are hereby amended as follows: 

a. 
       
     The provisions of Section 2.2(b) of the Credit Agreement are hereby amended by adding
the words   provided  that the foregoing shall not apply to the imposition of, or change in the
amount of, the Zale Canada Guaranty Reserve  at the end of the first sentence thereof. 

b. 
       
     The provisions of Section 2.22(a) of the Credit Agreement are hereby amended as follows: 

i. 
       
     by adding the words  (other than on account of the Zale Canada
Guaranty)  in clause seventh immediately after the word  Obligations.  

ii. 
       
     by adding  and  eighth , if there exists an  Event of Default  under and as such
term is defined in the Zale Canada Credit Agreement, to pay all other Obligations on account of the
Zale Canada Guaranty that are then outstanding and then due and payable.  

iii. 
       
     by deleting the word  seventh  in the second sentence thereof and substituting  eighth 
in its stead. 

4. 
       
      Amendments to Article V . The provisions of Article V of the Credit Agreement are
hereby amended as follows: 

a. 
       
     The introductory provisions of Article V to the Credit Agreement are hereby deleted in
their entirety and the following substituted in their stead: 

Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the Obligations shall have been paid in
full and all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated and all L/C Disbursements shall
have been reimbursed, each Borrower covenants and agrees with the Agents and the Lenders that: 

3 

b. 
       
     The provisions of Section 5.9(b) of the Credit Agreement are hereby amended as follows: 

5. 
       
      Amendments to Article VI . The provisions of Article VI of the Credit
Agreement are hereby amended as follows: 

a. 
       
     The introductory provisions of Article VI to the Credit Agreement are hereby deleted in
their entirety and the following substituted in their stead: 

Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the Obligations shall have been paid in
full and all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated and all L/C Disbursements shall
have been reimbursed, each Borrower covenants and agrees with the Agents and the Lenders that: 

b. 
       
     The provisions of Section 6.1(e) of the Credit Agreement are hereby deleted in their
entirety and the following substituted in their stead: 

(e) (i) The Zale Canada Guaranty and (ii) other Guaranties of other Indebtedness of Zale Canada in
an aggregate amount with respect to clause (ii) not to exceed $12,000,000. 

c. 
       
     The provisions of Section 6.4(k) of the Credit Agreement are hereby deleted in their
entirety and the following inserted in their stead: 

(k)investments consisting of (i) the Zale Canada Guaranty, (ii) Indebtedness permitted by Sections
6.1(c), (d), (e), (i), and (j); (iii) other guaranties of Indebtedness or other obligations
permitted by Sections 6.1(e), (f), and (g) in effect on the date hereof; and (iv) other loans,
advances, guarantees or other investments in Zale Canada in effect on the date hereof, which, when
combined with Guaranties permitted by Section 6.1(e)(ii), do not exceed $12,000,000 in the
aggregate principal amount; 

d. 
       
     The provisions of Section 6.4 of the Credit Agreement are amended by deleting the word
 and  at the end of Section 6.4(o), by re-lettering Section 6.4(p) as Section 6.4(q) and adding the
following immediately after said Section 6.4(o): 

4 

(p) Guarantees of obligations of a Subsidiary other than Zale Canada Co. in an amount not to
exceed $20,000,000 in the aggregate for all such Guarantees at any time outstanding; 

6. 
       
      Amendments to Article VII . The provisions of Article VII of the Credit Agreement
are hereby amended as follows: 

a. 
       
     By adding the following at the end of Section 7.1 (p) of the Credit Agreement after the
words  Closing Date : 

(it being understood that for purposes hereof, the Peoples II carts operated by the Borrower shall
not be deemed  store locations  

b. 
       
     By adding the following subsection (s) to Section 7.1 of the Credit Agreement: 

(s) the Borrowers shall fail to pay any amount under the Zale Canada Guaranty within five (5)
Business Days of the date when the administrative agent under the Zale Canada Credit Agreement
makes demand for payment therefor; 

c. 
       
     The provisions of Section 7.4 are hereby amended as follows: 

i. 
       
     By adding the words  (other than the Obligations of the Borrowers under the Zale Canada
Guaranty)  after the word  Obligations  in Section 7.4(c) and by deleting the word  and  at the end
of Section 7.4(c). 

ii. 
       
     By deleting the remainder of Section 7.4 in its entirety and substituting the following
in its stead: 

(d) Fourth, to the Obligations of the Borrowers under the Zale Canada Guaranty; 

(e) Fifth, upon payment and satisfaction in full or other provisions for payment in full
satisfactory to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent of all of the
Obligations, to the payment of any obligations required to be paid pursuant to  9-608(a)(l)(C) or
9-615(a)(3) of the Uniform Commercial Code of the State of New York; and 

(f) Sixth, the excess, if any, shall be returned to the Borrowers or to such other Persons
as are entitled thereto. 

7. 
       
      Conditions to Effectiveness . This Third Amendment shall not be effective until
each of the following conditions precedent have been fulfilled to the satisfaction of the
Administrative Agent: 

5 

a. 
       
     This Third Amendment shall have been duly executed and delivered by the Borrowers, the
Agents and the Lenders. The Administrative Agent shall have received a fully executed copy hereof
and of each other document required hereunder. 

b. 
       
     All action on the part of the Borrowers necessary for the valid execution, delivery and
performance by the Borrowers of this Third Amendment shall have been duly and effectively taken.
The Administrative Agent shall have received from the Borrowers true copies of their respective
certificate of the resolutions authorizing the transactions described herein, each certified by
their secretary or other appropriate officer to be true and complete. 

c. 
       
     The Borrowers or Zale Canada shall have reimbursed the Administrative Agent for all
expenses incurred in connection herewith, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys 
fees. 

d. 
       
     The Borrowers shall have executed and delivered the Zale Canada Guaranty. 

e. 
       
     No Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing. 

f. 
       
     The Borrowers shall have provided such additional instruments and documents to the
Administrative Agent as the Administrative Agent and their counsel may have reasonably requested. 

8. 
       
      Miscellaneous . 

a. 
       
     Except as provided herein, all terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement and the
other Loan Documents remain in full force and effect. The Borrowers each hereby ratify, confirm,
and reaffirm all of the representations, warranties and covenants therein contained. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Borrower hereby acknowledges, confirms and agrees
that all Collateral shall continue to secure the Obligations as modified and amended pursuant to
this Third Amendment (including, without limitation, the Zale Canada Guaranty) and any future
modifications, amendments, substitutions or renewals thereof. 

b. 
       
     The Borrowers or Zale Canada shall pay all costs and expenses incurred by the
Administrative Agent in connection with this Third Amendment, including, without limitation, all
reasonable attorneys  fees. 

c. 
       
     This Third Amendment may be executed in several counterparts and by each party on a
separate counterpart, each of which when so executed and delivered, each shall be an original, and
all of which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a
signature page hereto by telecopy or by electronic email in .pdf format shall be effective as
delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof. 

6 

d. 
       
     This Third Amendment expresses the entire understanding of the parties with
respect to the matters set forth herein and supersedes all prior discussions or negotiations
hereon. Any determination that any provision of this Third Amendment or any application hereof is
invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect and in any instance shall not effect the validity,
legality, or enforceability of such provision in any other instance, or the validity, legality or
enforceability of any other provisions of this Third Amendment. 

7 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Third Amendment to be executed
and their seals to be hereto affixed as the date first above written.

ZALE DELAWARE, INC. 

By:

/s/ David Sternblitz 

David Sternblitz 

Vice President and Treasurer 

ZALE CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ David Sternblitz 

David Sternblitz 

Vice President and Treasurer 

DDCC, INC. 

By:

/s/ David Sternblitz 

David Sternblitz 

Vice President and Treasurer 

TXDC, L.P. 

By: 
       
     Zale Delaware, Inc., Its General Partner 

By:

/s/ David Sternblitz 

David Sternblitz 

Vice President and Treasurer 

8 

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Issuing Bank 

By:

/s/ Sally A. Sheehan 

Name:

Sally A. Sheehan 

Title:

Managing Director 

9 

FLEET RETAIL GROUP, LLC, as Collateral Agent and Lender 

By:

/s/ Sally A. Sheehan 

Name:

Sally A. Sheehan 

Title:

Managing Director 

10 

CONGRESS FINANCIAL CORPORATION (SOUTHWEST) 

By:

/s/ Paul Truax 

Name:

Paul Truax 

Title:

Vice President 

11 

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. 

By:

/s/ Lavea Eisenberg 

Name: 
       
     Lavea Eisenberg 

Title:

Vice President 

12 

GENERAL ELECTRIC CAPITAL CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Brian P. Schwinn 

Name:

Brian P. Schwinn 

Title:

Duly Authorized Signatory 

13 

ABN/AMRO BANK, N.V. 

By:

/s/
 Ronald C. Spurfa  and  Frederick Jennings  

Name:
 Ronald C. Spurfa  and  Frederick Jennings  

Title:    Vice President  

14 

THE CIT GROUP/BUSINESS CREDIT, INC. 

By:

/s/ Manuel Borges 

Name: Manuel Borges 

Title:   Vice President 

15 

NATIONAL CITY BUSINESS CREDIT, INC. 

By:

/s/ Joe Kwasny 

Name: Joe Kwasny 

Title:   Director 

16 

WELLS FARGO FOOTHILL, LLC 

By:

/s/ David Hill 

Name: David Hill 

Title:   Vice President 

17 

KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION 

By:

/s/ Alex Strazzella 

Name: Alex Strazzella 

Title:   S V P 

18 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK 

By:

/s/ Scott DeTraglia 

Name: Scott DeTraglia 

Title:   Assistant Vice President 

19 

HIBERNIA NATIONAL BANK 

By:

/s/ Shannan Pratt 

Name: Shannan Pratt 

Title:   Vice President 

20 

SOVEREIGN BANK 

By:

/s/ Judith Kelly 

Name: Judith Kelly 

Title:   S V P 

21 

ROYAL BANK OF CANADA 

By:

/s/ Dustin Craven 

Name: Dustin Craven 

Title:   Attorney-In-Fact 

22 

ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND 

By:

/s/ Michaela V. Galluzzo 

Name: Michaela V. Galluzzo 

Title:   Vice President 

23 

COMERICA BANK 

By:

/s/ Jeff P. Geisbauer 

Name: Jeff P. Geisbauer 

Title:   Assistant Vice President 

24 

UBS AG, STAMFORD BRANCH 

By: 
Name:

/s/ Joselin Fernandes

Joselin Fernandes

Title:

Associate Director 

Banking Products 
Services, US 

By: 
Name:

/s/ Irja R.Otsa

Irja R.Otsa

Title:

Associate Director 

Banking Products 
Services, US 

25 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 

Bank of America (acting through its Canada branch), as administrative agent under the Zale Canada
Credit Agreement hereby executes this Third Amendment for the sole purpose of acknowledging and
agreeing to the provisions of Section 7.4 hereof.

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.(acting through its
Canada branch) 

By:

/s/ NELSON LAM

Name:

NELSON LAM 

Title:

VICE PRESIDENT 

26 

</EX-4.1(C)>

<EX-10.1>
 3
 d40232exv10w1.htm
 SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN AS AMENDED

exv10w1 

EXHIBIT 10.1 

ZALE CORPORATION SAVINGS   INVESTMENT PLAN 

(As Amended and Restated Effective August 1, 2005) 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

ZALE CORPORATION SAVINGS   INVESTMENT PLAN 
(As Amended and Restated Effective April 1, 2006) 

THIS
AGREEMENT , executed this 31 day of July, 2006, and effective the 1st day of August
1, 2005, unless specifically provided elsewhere in this Agreement, is made by Zale Corporation,
having its principal office in Irving, Texas (hereinafter referred to as the  Company ).

WITNESSETH: 

WHEREAS , effective April 1, 1951, the Company established a plan known as  Zale s Profit Sharing
Plan  (the  Original Plan 

WHEREAS , the Original Plan was amended, effective April 1, 1989, to comply with the Tax Reform Act
of 1986 and subsequent tax act changes and to add employee salary deferral elections pursuant to
section 401(k) of the Code and employer matching contributions pursuant to section 401(m) of the
Code;

WHEREAS , the Original Plan was amended, effective April 1, 1991, to add an employee stock ownership
plan component (the  ESOP Component ) which was intended to qualify as a stock bonus plan under
section 401(a) of the Code and as an employee stock ownership plan under section 4975(e)(7) of the
Code under the instrument entitled  Zale s Savings and Employee Stock Ownership Plan  (the
 Savings/ESOP Plan 

WHEREAS , effective January 1, 1992, the Company split up the Savings/ESOP Plan into two separate
plans: one through the amendment and restatement of the Savings/ESOP Plan, which was known as the
 Zale s Employee Stock Ownership Plan  (the  Zale ESOP Plan ), and the other through the execution
of a new document, which plan was known as the  Zale s Profit Sharing Plan  (the  Profit Sharing
Plan ), each of which was a continuation of its respective component of the Savings/ESOP Plan
without gap in time or effect;

WHEREAS , the Company terminated the Zale ESOP Plan effective January 1, 1992 and received a
favorable determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service (the  IRS ) on the qualification
of the Zale ESOP Plan upon its termination;

WHEREAS , the Company amended the Profit Sharing Plan on April 15, 1993 by adopting a First
Amendment thereto and received a favorable determination letter from the IRS on the qualification
of the Profit Sharing Plan, as amended by such First Amendment;

WHEREAS , effective April 1, 1994, the Company restated the Profit Sharing Plan to comply with then
applicable legislation;

WHEREAS , the restated Profit Sharing Plan (the  Plan ) was thereafter restated by Amendments No.
1-7;

WHEREAS , the Company amended and restated the Plan to bring it into compliance with the Code, as
modified by the Small Business Job Protection Act of 1996 ( SBJPA ), the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trades under the Uruguay Round Agreements Act ( GATT ), Uniformed Services Employment
and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 ( USERRA ), and the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 ( TRA  97 ), as
well as all rules and regulations enacted or promulgated since the date the Plan was last restated
and administrative pronouncements issued by the Treasury Department applicable to the Plan;

(v) 

WHEREAS , the Company amended the Plan, effective August 1, 2002, to adopt certain Model Amendments
published in (i) IRS Notice 2001-37, relating to qualified transportation fringe benefits, (ii) IRS
Notice 2001-57, for the changes to the Plan qualification requirements under section 401(a) of the
Code that were made by the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 ( EGTRRA ),
and (iii) IRS Revenue Procedure 2002-29, to comply with the minimum distribution rules;

WHEREAS , such amendment to the Plan was adopted to reflect the Plan s good faith compliance with
the requirements of EGTRRA, was to be construed in accordance with EGTRRA and the guidance issued
thereunder, and was to supercede the provisions of the Plan to the extent those provisions were
inconsistent with the provisions of the amendment;

WHEREAS , the Company elected, for the Plan Year ending July 31, 2002, in accordance with IRS Notice
2000-3, not to be a safe harbor plan for purposes of the actual deferral percentage test and the
actual contribution percentage test, and the Company amended the Plan, effective August 1, 2001, to
specify the testing method to be used for Plan Years ending July 31, 2002 and thereafter;

WHEREAS , the Company amended the Plan, effective June 1, 2003, to allow Piercing Pagoda
Distribution Center employees and Warehouse employees who participated in the Plan to receive an
allocation of matching contributions for the Plan Year ending July 31, 2003 in view of the closure
of those facilities, and to allow the Company, in its discretion, to fund matching contributions
prior to the end of the Plan Year for Participants who are not required to be employed on the last
day of the Plan Year to be entitled to receive an allocation of such matching contributions;

WHEREAS , the Company amended the Plan, effective August 1, 1997 and August 1, 2000, as applicable,
to comply with the requests of the IRS in order to secure a favorable determination letter
regarding the Plan s continued qualified status under section 401 of the Code;

WHEREAS , the Company subsequently amended the Plan, effective July 31, 2004, to clarify who makes
the decision concerning the form of Company contributions, provide more flexibility in the
investment of contributions made by Participants and the Company, and specify the investment
treatment applicable to Participants who do not make investment directions;

WHEREAS , the Company amended the Plan, effective March 28, 2005, to (i) reduce the dollar limit on
mandatory lump sum cashout distributions from $5,000 to $1,000 and (ii) reflect that no mandatory
lump sum cashout distribution will be made after March 28, 2005 if the balance of the participant s
rollover account, when added to the balance of the remainder of his individual account, exceeds
$1,000;

WHEREAS , by this instrument, the Company desires to amend and restate the Plan through a document
generally effective August 1, 2005 to (i) incorporate into the Plan document the previous
amendments to the Plan; (ii) reflect the transition of the recordkeeping and trustee services to
Fidelity Investments and the following Plan design changes effective April 1, 2006: (A) provide for
automatic enrollment for new Eligible Employees at the rate of two percent (2%) of Compensation,
(B) increase the Pre-Tax Contribution rate for Non-Highly Compensated Employees to sixty percent
(60%) of Compensation and for Highly Compensated Employees to thirty percent (30%) of Compensation,
(C) increase the Catch-Up Contribution rate to fifty percent (50%), (D) prohibit Rollover
Contributions to the Plan of after-tax monies and monies from a non-conduit individual retirement
arrangement, (E) modify the method of determining whether an Employee has completed a Year of
Service following his initial employment year to look at the Plan Year rather than the employment
year, (F) allow Participants to continue to

(vi) 

repay outstanding Plan loans following a termination of employment, (G) remove Company stock as a
source for participant loans, (H) modify the hardship suspension period from six (6) months to one
hundred eighty-three (183) days, (I) add an age fifty-nine and one-half (59  1  / 2 ) in-service withdrawal
provision for all Participants, (J) eliminate systematic withdrawals as a form of distribution for
Karten s Plan Participants, (K) fully vest all Karten s Plan Participants in their Karten s Plan
discretionary profit sharing and matching contribution accounts, (L) combine all Participants 
Karten s Plan accounts with like accounts under the Plan ( e.g. , Karten s matching contributions to
the Matching Contribution Account source), and (M) permit affected Participants to receive
qualified Hurricane Katrina distributions; (iii) comply with regulations issued pursuant to
sections 401(k) and 401(m) of the Code; (iv) allow the Chief Executive Officer to amend the Plan to
comply with changes in the law or to implement changes recommended by the Committee appointed
pursuant to Article XIII that do not have a significant impact on Plan costs; (v) amend the Plan to
address how errors in contribution percentage changes are addressed effective August 1, 2005; (vi)
change the Plan Year, effective January 1, 2007, to the calendar year; and (vii) make certain other
changes and clarifications in order to facilitate the transfer of the recordkeeping and trustee
functions to Fidelity on April 1, 2006;

WHEREAS , in connection with the authority delegated to the Committee to recommend amendments to the
Plan as described in the preceding paragraph, the Chief Executive Officer also desires to amend
the Plan to include in this restated document the following changes, effective April 1, 2006: (i)
change the definition of  Disability,  (ii) permit Participants to elect to have their annual
Pre-Tax Contribution percentage automatically increased each Plan Year, (iii) clarify that the
twenty-five percent (25%) limit on investments in Company stock applies to all contribution
sources, (iv) provide for a lump sum distribution to Participants who reach their  Required
Beginning Date,  (v) clarify that only Participant contribution sources are available for a
hardship withdrawal, (vi) simplify the payout of benefits to Participants who die without a
designated Beneficiary, (vii) reflect that the Benefits Department of the Company handles the daily
operation of the Plan ( i.e. , is the Daily Administrator), (viii) expand the indemnity provisions of
the Plan to cover the members of the Committee appointed pursuant to Article XIII and the Daily
Administrator, (ix) update the claims procedure to reflect the maximum time requirements imposed by
ERISA and those applicable to committees; and (x) provide for the correction of errors in
implementing Participant investment directions; and

WHEREAS , this amendment and restatement of the Plan is intended to evidence the Plan s continued
good faith compliance with the requirements of EGTRRA and the guidance issued thereunder.

NOW, THEREFORE , in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants herein contained, the
Plan is hereby restated as follows:

(vii) 

ARTICLE I 

DEFINITIONS 

Unless by the context hereof a different meaning is clearly indicated, whenever used in this Plan,
the following words will have the meanings hereinafter set forth:

1.1  
       
      Administrator  for the purposes of ERISA means the Company; provided, that the Company,
by action of its Board of Directors or its Chief Executive Officer, may designate another
person or entity, including the Trustee, the Recordkeeper or a Committee, as Administrator
of the Plan. As of the Effective Date, the Company has designated the Committee as the
Administrator. The Committee may delegate some or all of its duties to another person or
entity pursuant to Article XIII ( e.g ., the Daily Administrator or Recordkeeper).
Accordingly, any reference to the Administrator in this Plan will be deemed to refer to any
such designee, as applicable. 

1.2  
       
      Affiliated Company  means the Company and any other entity which is, along with the
Company, a member of a controlled group of corporations or a controlled group of trades or
businesses (as defined in section 414(b) or (c) of the Code), any entity which along with
the Company is included in an affiliated service group as defined in section 414(m) of the
Code, and any other entity which is required to be aggregated with the Company pursuant to
section 414(o) of the Code. 

1.3  
       
      Allocation Date  means the end of each calendar quarter or such other date or dates as
the Administrator may establish from time to time. 

1.4  
       
      Alternate Payee  means any Spouse, former Spouse, child, or other dependent of a
Participant who is recognized by a Domestic Relations Order as having a right to receive
all, or a portion of, the benefits payable under the Plan with respect to such Participant. 

1.5  
       
      Beneficiary  means any person or fiduciary designated by a Participant or Former
Participant in accordance with Section 10.2. 

1.6  
       
      Benefit Commencement Date  means the first day on which all events have occurred which
entitle the Participant to such benefit, in accordance with the requirements of section 411
of the Code. For purposes of this Plan, a Participant s Benefit Commencement Date will be
determined as follows: 

(a)  
       
      Termination of Service . With respect to any distribution upon termination of service for any reason, the
Benefit Commencement Date will generally be the later of (i) the effective date of a
Qualified Election (including all consents and applicable information in connection
therewith) that is required to be made under section 411 of the Code with respect to
such distribution, or (ii) thirty (30) days after the date of such termination of
service; provided, however, that for purposes of Section 9.10, regarding Automatic
Cashouts, the Benefit Commencement Date will be the date such cashout distribution
is to be made. 

(b)  
       
      In-Service Withdrawals . With respect to any withdrawal prior to termination of
service, the Benefit Commencement Date will be the effective date of a Qualified
Election (including all consents and applicable information in connection therewith)
that is required to be made under section 411 of the Code with respect to such
withdrawal.

(c)  
       
      Attainment of Required Beginning Date . In the case of any distribution on
account of the Participant s attainment of the Required Beginning Date, if neither
subparagraph (a) nor (b) applies, the Benefit Commencement Date will be the
applicable April 1 following the calendar year in which the Participant attains age
seventy and one-half (70  1  / 2 ) or terminates service, as applicable. 

1.7  
       
      Break-in-Service  means a Plan Year during which the Participant is credited with five
hundred (500) or fewer Hours of Service. 

1.8  
       
      Catch-Up Contribution Account  means the portion of the Individual Account maintained by
the Trustee or the Recordkeeper for each Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary on
and after April 1, 2006, reflecting the monetary value of such person s interest in the
Trust Fund attributable to Catch-Up Contributions made by the Participant under the Plan. 

1.9  
       
      Catch-Up Contribution  means the contributions made pursuant to section 414(v) of the
Code as provided in Section 3.4 of this Plan. 

1.10  
       
      Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as it may be amended from time to time.
Reference to a section of the Code will include that section, applicable Treasury
regulations promulgated thereunder and any comparable section of any future legislation that
amends, supplements or supersedes said section, effective as of the date such comparable
section is effective with respect to the Plan. 

1.11  
       
      Committee 
means the committee appointed under Article XIII to administer the Plan, as from time to
time constituted. If no such committee is appointed, the Company will constitute the
Committee. 

1.12  
       
      Common Stock  means the shares of common stock of Zale Corporation. 

1.13  
       
      Common Stock Fund  means the Investment Fund maintained pursuant to the Plan which is
invested in Common Stock. 

1.14  
       
      Company  means Zale Corporation, or such other organization which, pursuant to a
spinoff, merger, consolidation, reorganization, or similar corporate transaction where a
significant portion of the Company s employees become employees of such organization, adopts
and assumes the Plan and the Trust Agreement as the sponsor with the consent of the Company
and agrees to accept the duties, responsibilities and obligations of the sponsor of the Plan
and the Trust Agreement. Reference in the Plan to the Company will refer to any such
organization which adopts and assumes the sponsorship of the Plan and the Trust Agreement. 

1.15  
       
      Compensation  means, with respect to an Eligible Employee, compensation paid to such
Employee by an Employer which is includible in the Employee s gross income for the Plan
Year,  plus  amounts applied to purchase benefits pursuant to a salary reduction agreement
under a cafeteria plan (as defined in section 125 of the Code) sponsored by an Employer,
amounts deferred pursuant to a salary reduction agreement authorized in Section 3.1, amounts
deferred pursuant to a salary reduction agreement under any other plan described in sections
401(k) and 408(k) of the Code sponsored by an Employer and amounts that are not includible
in gross income of such Employee by reason of section 132(f)(4) of the Code,  but excluding 
relocation expenses, merchandise incentives and car fringe benefits, and all other items of
compensation. 

2 

The Compensation of each Participant taken into account in determining allocations for any
Plan Year will not exceed two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000), as adjusted for
cost-of-living increases in accordance with section 401(a)(17)(B) of the Code. The
cost-of-living adjustment in effect for a calendar year applies to Compensation for the
determination period that begins with or within the calendar year. 

For nondiscrimination testing purposes under Section 4.2 and Section 5.1, Compensation means
any definition of compensation permitted under section 414(s) of the Code as elected by the
Administrator for the applicable Plan Year. 

1.16  
       
      Daily Administrator  means the individual designated by the Administrator to handle on a
ministerial basis the day-to-day operation of the Plan. In the event the Plan Administrator
fails to appoint a
Daily Administrator, the Administrator will be the Daily Administrator. As of the Effective
Date, the Benefits Department of the Company is the Daily Administrator. 

1.17  
       
      Direct Rollover  means a payment by the Plan to an Eligible Retirement Plan specified by
(a) the Participant, (b) the Participant s surviving Spouse, or (c) the Participant s former
Spouse who is an Alternate Payee under a QDRO. 

1.18  
       
      Disability  means effective April 1, 2006 the Participant is either totally and
permanently disabled within the meaning of a long-term disability plan sponsored by the
Employer in which the Participant is a member or is determined to be totally and permanently
disabled by a ruling issued by the Social Security Administration. 

1.19  
       
      Domestic Relations Order  means any judgment, decree, or order (including one that
approves a property settlement agreement) that relates to the provision of child support,
alimony payments, or marital property rights to a spouse, former spouse, child, or other
dependent of a Participant and is rendered under a state (within the meaning of section
7701(a)(10) of the Code) domestic relations law (including a community property law). 

1.20  
       
      Effective Date  means August 1, 2005, as to this amendment and restatement of the Plan,
except: 

(a) 
       
     specific provisions of the Plan designated as having a different effective date
will be effective as indicated in such provisions; and 

(b) 
       
     specific provisions of the Plan required to have a different effective date by
applicable provisions of the Code, including revisions made by EGTRRA, will be
effective as of the dates such provisions are required to be effective with respect to
the Plan under the Code or, if later, under administrative pronouncements issued by the
Internal Revenue Service or the Treasury Department. 

1.21  
       
      Eligible Employee  means any Employee who is on an Employer s payroll in the United
States, Puerto Rico or Guam. The term Eligible Employee will  exclude : 

(a) 
       
     all other persons who work outside of the United States unless the Committee
elects to cover them by the Plan, in which case an appendix that reflects such coverage
will be attached hereto; 

(b) 
       
     any Leased Employee that section 414(n) of the Code treats as an Employee of an
Employer, any independent contractor or any self-employed person even if  

3 

such person is
subsequently deemed to be a common law employee by the Employer, a governmental agency
with jurisdiction over the Plan or a court of competent jurisdiction; 

(c) 
       
     any Employee who is included in a unit of Employees covered by a collective
bargaining agreement between the Employees  representative and the Employer, even if
they have met the requirements for eligibility, if there has been good faith bargaining
between the Employer and the Employees  representative and the collective bargaining
agreement does not require the Employer to include those Employees in the Plan; and 

(d) 
       
     any Employee who is a nonresident alien and who receives no earned income
(within the meaning of section 911(d)(2) of the Code) from any Employer which
constitutes income from sources within the United States (within the meaning of section
861(a)(3) of the Code). 

An Eligible Employee who is a Participant in this Plan when he is excluded under the
provisions of this Section 1.21 will cease active participation in this Plan on the
effective date of that exclusion ( e.g. , the effective date of the collective bargaining
agreement in the case of an exclusion under subsection (c)) and will not be eligible to make
Pre-Tax Contributions or receive any Matching Contributions while a member of the ineligible
class but will not be considered to have terminated employment for distribution purposes
under this Plan. 

1.22  
       
      Eligible Retirement Plan  means (a) an individual retirement account described in
section 408(a) of the Code, (b) an individual retirement annuity described in section 408(b)
of the Code, (c) an annuity plan described in section 403(a) of the Code, (d) a qualified
plan described in section 401(a) of the Code, which under its provisions and applicable law
may accept such Eligible Rollover Distribution, (e) an annuity contract described in section
403(b) of the Code, and (f) an eligible plan under section 457 of the Code which is
maintained by a state, a political subdivision of a state, or an agency or instrumentality
of a state or political subdivision of a state and which agrees to separately account for
amounts rolled over to such plan from this Plan. This definition of Eligible Retirement
Plan will also apply in the case of a distribution to a surviving Spouse, or a Spouse or
former Spouse who is the Alternate Payee under a QDRO. 

1.23  
       
      Eligible Rollover Distribution  means any distribution of all or any portion of the
Individual Account of a Participant, within the meaning of section 402(c)(4) of the Code,
 other than : 

(a) 
       
     a distribution that is one of a series of substantially equal periodic payments
(not less frequently than annually) made for the life (or life expectancy) of the
distributee or the joint lives (or joint life expectancies) of the distributee and the
distributee s designated Beneficiary or for a specified period of ten (10) years or
more; 

(b) 
       
     a distribution to the extent such distribution is required under section
401(a)(9) of the Code; 

(c) 
       
     generally, the portion of any distribution that is not includable in gross
income (determined without regard to the exclusion for net unrealized appreciation with
respect to employer securities); provided, however, that an Eligible Rollover

4 

Distribution  may  include the portion of any distribution that is not includable in
gross income (determined without regard to the exclusion for net unrealized
appreciation with respect to employer securities),  provided  that such portion may
only be rolled over to an individual retirement account described in section 408(a)
of the Code, an individual retirement annuity described in section 408(b) of the
Code or a qualified defined contribution plan described in section 401(a) or 403(a)
of the Code that agrees to separately account for amounts so rolled over, including
separately accounting for the portion of the distribution which is includable in
gross income and the portion of such distribution which is not so includable. 

(d) 
       
     a loan treated as a distribution under section 72(p) of the Code and not
excepted by section 72(p)(2) of the Code; 

(e) 
       
     a loan in default that is a deemed distribution; 

(f) 
       
     any corrective distribution provided in Sections 4.2 and 5.1 (regarding excess
Pre-Tax Contributions and excess Matching Contributions) and in Section 7.2 (regarding
excess Annual Additions); 

(g) 
       
     a hardship withdrawal under section 401(k)(2)(B)(i)(IV) of the Code; and 

(h) 
       
     any other distribution so designated by the Internal Revenue Service in revenue
rulings, notices, and other guidance of general applicability. 

1.24  
       
      Employee  means any individual in the employ of the Company or an Affiliated Company in
the capacity of an employee and not in the capacity of an independent contractor, contract
employee or Leased Employee. 

1.25  
       
      Employee After-Tax Account  means the portion of the Individual Account maintained by
the Trustee or the Recordkeeper for each Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary
reflecting the monetary value of such person s interest in the Trust Fund attributable to
contributions made by the Participant on an after-tax basis when such contributions were
permitted by the Plan. Effective April 1, 2006, the Employee After-Tax Account will also
hold amounts repaid to the Plan by Participants who received an improper distribution of
Excess Contributions pursuant to Section 4.2 or Excess Aggregate Contributions pursuant to
Section 5.1. 

1.26  
       
      Employee Pre-Tax Matched Contribution Account  means the portion of the Individual
Account maintained by the Trustee or the Recordkeeper for each Participant, Former
Participant or Beneficiary on or after April 1, 2006, reflecting the monetary value of such
person s interest in the Trust Fund attributable to contributions made by the Participant on
a pre-tax basis that were eligible for a corresponding Matching Contribution under the Plan.
The Employee Pre-Tax Matched Contribution Account will also be credited with amounts
attributable to pre-tax contributions made by the Participant under the Karten s Plan that
were entitled to a corresponding Matching Contribution under that plan. 

1.27  
       
      Employee Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account  means the portion of the Individual
Account maintained by the Trustee or the Recordkeeper for each Participant, Former
Participant or Beneficiary on and after April 1, 2006, reflecting the monetary value of such
person s interest in the Trust Fund attributable to contributions made by the Participant on
a pre-tax basis that were not eligible for a corresponding
Matching  

5 

Contribution under the
Plan. The Employee Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account will also be credited with amounts
attributable to pre-tax contributions made by the Participant under the Karten s Plan that
were not entitled to a corresponding Matching Contribution under that plan. 

1.28  
       
      Employer  means the Company and any other Affiliated Company which adopts the Plan with
respect to its Eligible Employees as provided in Article XIV. 

1.29  
       
      Employment Commencement Date  means the first day an Employee has an Hour of Service. 

1.30  
       
      Entry Date  means the first day of each month. 

1.31  
       
      ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as it may be amended
from time to time, and applicable regulations promulgated thereunder. 

1.32  
       
      Excess Aggregate Contributions  means Matching Contributions attributable to Highly
Compensated Employees that cause the Plan to fail the actual contribution percentage test
under section 401(m) of the Code, as described in Section 5.1. 

1.33  
       
      Excess Contributions  means Pre-Tax Contributions attributable to Highly Compensated
Employees that cause the Plan to fail the actual deferral percentage test under section
401(k) of the Code, as described in Section 4.2. 

1.34  
       
      Excess Elective Deferral  means Pre-Tax Contributions that exceed the limit on such
contributions under section 402(g) of the Code, as described in Section 4.1(a). 

1.35  
       
      Former Participant  means any individual who has been a Participant in the Plan, who is
no longer in the employ of an Affiliated Company and who has not yet received the entire
benefit to which he is entitled under the Plan. 

1.36  
       
      Highly Compensated Employee  means, for any Plan Year, any Employee who: 

(a) 
       
     was, at any time during the Plan Year or the preceding Plan Year, a more than
five percent (5%) owner of any Employer; or 

(b) 
       
     during the preceding Plan Year received 415 Compensation (as defined in Section
7.1) from all Employers in excess of eighty thousand dollars ($80,000) (as adjusted to
such other amount as the Secretary of the Treasury will prescribe at the same time and
in the same manner as provided under section 415(d) of the Code for adjusting the
dollar limitation in effect under section 415(b)(1)(A) of the Code ( i.e. , one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000) for 2006)). 

1.37  
       
      Hour or Hour of Service  means each hour credited to an Employee in accordance with the
following: 

(a) 
       
     An Hour of Service will be credited to an Employee for each hour for which he
is directly or indirectly paid, or entitled to payment, by any Affiliated Company. 

(b) 
       
     An Hour of Service will be credited to an Employee for each hour for which back
pay, irrespective of mitigation of damages, has been either awarded or agreed to by an
Affiliated Company. These hours will be credited to the Employee for the 

6 

Plan Year or Plan Years to which the award or agreement pertains rather than the Plan Year in which
the award, agreement or payment is made. 

(c) 
       
     In no event will an Employee be given credit for a specific Hour of Service
under more than one of the above subsections (a) or (b). 

(d) 
       
     Hours of Service for periods during which no duties are performed will be
determined and credited in accordance with Sections 2530.200b-2(b) and (c) of the
Department of Labor regulations. 

(e) 
       
     If an absence from the service of an Affiliated Company occurs for any period
by reason of (i) pregnancy of the individual, (ii) birth of a child of the individual,
(iii) placement of a child with the individual in connection with the adoption of such
child by such individual, or (iv) for purposes of caring for such child for a period
beginning immediately following such birth or placement and if the Participant does not
return to employment immediately on the expiration of the period of absence, solely for
purposes of determining a Break in Service, the Plan will credit the Participant with
up to five hundred and one (501) Hours of Service which otherwise would normally have
been credited to such individual during the Plan Year. However, if in the Plan Year in
which the absence commences the Participant would not have incurred a Break in Service
even if the preceding sentence had not applied, the Plan will credit the Participant
with such Hours of Service in the following Plan Year. The Plan will not credit any
Participant with any Hours of Service under this subsection (e) unless such Participant
timely furnishes the Administrator information establishing (i) that the absence from
the service of an Affiliated Company was for one or more reasons specified in the first
sentence of this subparagraph (e), and (ii) the numbers of days for which there was an
absence. 

(f) 
       
     Effective December 12, 1994, each period of qualified military service (within
the meaning of Chapter 43 of Title 38, United States Code) served by an Employee who is
reemployed under that chapter by an Affiliated Company following such service will be
considered service with an Affiliated Company for purposes of determining his Hours of
Service. 

(g) 
       
     Hours of Service include hours credited for an employer, the stock or assets of
which are acquired by an Employer or an Affiliated Company, without regard to whether a
predecessor plan was maintained. 

1.38  
       
      Individual Account  means an account or record to be maintained by the Trustee or the
Recordkeeper reflecting the monetary value of the undivided interest in the Trust Fund of
each Participant, each Former Participant and each Beneficiary and, effective as of April 1,
2006, and will include the following sub-accounts: 

(a) 
       
     Catch-Up Contribution Account; 

(b) 
       
     Employee After-Tax Account; 

(c) 
       
     Employee Pre-Tax Matched Contribution Account; 

(d) 
       
     Employee Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account; 

7 

(e) 
       
     Matching Contribution Account; 

(f) 
       
     Profit Sharing Account; 

(g) 
       
     QNEC Account; 

(h) 
       
     Rollover Account; and 

(i) 
       
     Safe Harbor Match Account. 

The term Individual Account will also include such other additional account or accounts as
the Administrator may establish from time to time. 

1.39  
       
      Interactive Electronic Communication  means, to the extent available under the Plan, a
communication between a Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary and the Recordkeeper
pursuant to a system maintained by the Recordkeeper and communicated to each Participant,
Former Participant and Beneficiary whereby each such individual may obtain financial
information regarding his Individual Account and amounts available for withdrawal, and may
initiate investment transfer elections and exercise options as described herein with respect
to his Individual Account through the use of such system and a personal identification
number assigned to the Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary by the Recordkeeper or
the Administrator. If a Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary participates in the
Plan s Interactive Electronic Communication feature through the use of his personal
identification number, the Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary, as the case may
be, will be deemed to have given his written consent and authorization
to any action resulting from the use of the Interactive Electronic Communication system by
the Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary. 

1.40  
       
      Investment Fund  means one or more funds designated by the Administrator pursuant to
Section 16.1 from time to time and maintained for the purpose of providing a vehicle for the
investment of assets of the Trust Fund, in accordance with the directions of each
Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary with respect to his Individual Account, until
such Investment Fund or Investment Funds will be eliminated by action of the Administrator.
The Administrator may direct the Trustee to invest one or more of such funds with a
specified insurance company or mutual fund, or appoint an investment advisor as provided in
Section 15.5 to manage the same and may also direct the Trustee to establish new Investment
Funds or delete existing Investment Funds from time to time. 

1.41  
       
      Karten s Plan  means the Karten s Jewelers, Inc. 401(k) Plan which was merged into the
Plan on August 1, 1996. 

1.42  
       
      Leased Employee  means an individual described in section 414(n) of the Code ( i.e. , who
has performed services for the Employer pursuant to a leasing agreement on a substantially
full-time basis for at least one (1) year and who performs such services under the primary
direction or control of the Employer). A Leased Employee will also include any individual
who is deemed to be an Employee of an Employer under section 414(o) of the Code. 

1.43  
       
      Matching Contribution  means the contribution made by an Employer pursuant to Section
3.2. 

8 

1.44  
       
      Matching Contribution Account  means the portion of the Individual Account maintained by
the Trustee or the Recordkeeper for each Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary,
reflecting the monetary value of such person s individual interest in the Trust Fund
attributable to an Employer s Matching Contributions under Section 3.2. Effective April 1,
2006, the Matching Contribution Account will also be credited with amounts attributable to
Matching Contributions made on behalf of the Participant under the Karten s Plan. 

1.45  
       
      Non-Highly Compensated Employee  means any Employee who is not a Highly Compensated
Employee. The determination of an Employee s status as a Non-Highly Compensated Employee for
a Plan Year will be determined based on the definition of Highly Compensated Employee in
Section 1.36 that is applicable for that Plan Year. 

1.46  
       
      Normal Retirement Date  means the  later  of a Participant s or Former Participant s 65th
birthday or the fifth (5th) anniversary of the date he commenced participation in the Plan.
The Normal Retirement
Date for a Participant or Former Participant who previously participated in the Karten s
Plan and had amounts transferred from the Karten s Plan to the Plan means the date the
Participant attains age sixty-five (65). 

1.47  
       
      Participant  means an Eligible Employee who has met the eligibility requirements of the
Plan as provided in Article II and has begun participating in the Plan. An Eligible Employee
who elects to make a Rollover Contribution but who has not yet met the eligibility
requirements of the Plan ( i.e ., has not completed one (1) Year of Service or attained age
twenty-one (21)) will be considered a Participant only for purposes of applying the relevant
provisions of the Plan relating to the investment and distribution of such Employee s
Rollover Account and his rights and responsibilities under ERISA with respect to such
Rollover Contribution. For purposes of Section 4.2 (regarding the actual deferral
percentage test) and Section 5.1 (regarding the actual contribution percentage test), the
term  Participant  includes any Eligible Employee who has met the eligibility requirements
of the Plan ( i.e ., attained age twenty-one (21) and completed one (1) Year of Service)
regardless of whether he has elected to make Pre-Tax Contributions to the Plan. 

1.48  
       
      Plan  means the plan embodied herein, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
will be known as the  Zale Corporation Savings   Investment Plan.  

1.49  
       
      Plan Year  means, initially, the twelve (12)-month period from August 1 of each calendar
year to the next following July 31. Effective January 1, 2007, the Plan Year will change to
the calendar year. Accordingly, the Plan Year that begins August 1, 2006 will be a short
Plan Year that ends December 31, 2006; and, thereafter, Plan Year will mean the calendar
year. 

1.50  
       
      Pre-Tax Contribution  means contributions made by an Employer on behalf of each
Participant pursuant to a salary reduction agreement described in Section 3.1. Those
Pre-Tax Contributions which are eligible for a Matching Contribution pursuant to Section 3.2
will be referred to as Pre-Tax Matched Contributions. Those Pre-Tax Contributions which are
not eligible for a Matching Contribution pursuant to Section 3.2 will be referred to as
Pre-Tax Unmatched Contributions. 

1.51  
       
      Pre-Tax Contribution Accounts  means the Participant s Employee Pre-Tax Matched
Contribution Account and Employee Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account. 

9 

1.52  
       
      Profit Sharing Account  means the portion of the Individual Account maintained by the
Trustee or the Recordkeeper for each Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary,
reflecting the monetary value of such person s individual interest in the Trust Fund
attributable to an
Employer s discretionary profit sharing contributions made to the Plan before August 1,
1998, and earnings thereon. Such Profit Sharing Account became fully vested as of July 31,
2005. Effective April 1, 2006, the Employer Profit Sharing Account will also be credited
with amounts attributable to discretionary profit sharing contributions, if any, made on
behalf of the Participant under the Karten s Plan. 

1.53  
       
      QDRO  means a Domestic Relations Order that: 

(a) 
       
     Creates or recognizes the existence of an Alternate Payee s right, or assigns
to an Alternate Payee such right, to receive all or a portion of the benefits payable
with respect to a Participant under the Plan; 

(b) 
       
     Does not require the Plan to provide any type or form of benefit, or any option
not otherwise provided under the Plan; 

(c) 
       
     Does not require the Plan to provide increased benefits (determined on the
basis of actuarial value); 

(d) 
       
     Does not require the payment of benefits to an Alternate Payee that are
required to be paid to another Alternate Payee under another order previously
determined to be a QDRO; and 

(e) 
       
     Clearly specifies: 

(i) 
       
     The name and last known mailing address of the Participant and
the name and mailing address of each Alternate Payee covered by the order
(unless such addresses are reasonably available to the Daily Administrator); 

(ii) 
       
     The amount or percentage of the Participant s benefits to be
paid by the Plan to each such Alternate Payee, or the manner in which such
amount or percentage is to be determined; 

(iii) 
       
     The number of payments or payment periods to which such order
applies; and 

(iv) 
       
     That it is applicable with respect to this Plan. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Domestic Relations Order will not be considered to fail to
qualify as a QDRO with respect to any payment made before a Participant has separated from
service solely because the order requires that payment of benefits be made to an Alternate
Payee prior to the date the Participant attains age fifty (50). 

1.54  
       
      QNEC Account  means the portion of the Individual Account maintained by the Trustee or
the Recordkeeper for each Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary on and after April
1, 2006, reflecting the monetary value of such person s individual interest in the Trust
Fund attributable to QNECs made to the Plan and the earnings and losses thereon. 

10 

1.55  
       
      QNECs  means the qualified nonelective contributions made on an Eligible Employee s, a
Participant s or Former Participant s behalf under the Plan in order to satisfy the actual
deferral percentage test described in Section 4.2 or the actual contribution percentage test
described in Section 5.1 or to correct certain operating discrepancies pursuant to certain
voluntary correction programs approved by the Internal Revenue Service. A Participant s or
Former Participant s QNECs will be fully vested and subject to the distribution restrictions
set forth in sections 401(k)(2)(B) and 401(k)(10) of the Code. 

1.56  
       
      Qualified Election  means the designation of any Beneficiary in addition to or other
than the Participant s Spouse, and if the Benefit Commencement Date is prior to the
Participant s Normal Retirement Date, the election of a Benefit Commencement Date. No such
designation will be deemed to be a Qualified Election unless it satisfies the following
rules, and such other requirements as the Administrator may prescribe: 

(a) 
       
     In the case of the designation of any Beneficiary in addition to or other than
the Participant s Spouse, the Participant s Spouse, if any, must consent to such
designation and such Spouse s consent must be witnessed by a notary public. 

(b) 
       
     Notwithstanding the consent requirement set forth in Section 1.56(a) above, if
the Participant warrants to the Administrator that such written consent may not be
obtained because there is no Spouse or the Spouse cannot be located or for any other
reason as the Administrator determines to be consistent with the requirements of
section 417 of the Code, a related designation of Beneficiary without spousal consent
may be deemed a Qualified Election to the extent permitted by sections 401(a)(11) and
417 of the Code; provided, however, that the Administrator may require the Participant
in such case to produce such evidence of the Spouse s unavailability or other
circumstances as the Administrator deems to be appropriate. 

(c) 
       
     A Qualified Election under this provision requiring consent of a Participant s
Spouse will be valid only with respect to the Spouse who consented to the Qualified
Election, or in the event of a Qualified Election to which the Spouse s consent has not
been obtained, with respect to that Spouse whose consent was not obtained ( e.g. , that
Spouse who cannot be located). 

(d) 
       
     A revocation of or change in a prior designation of Beneficiary may be made by
a Participant at any time before the Benefit Commencement Date but any change in a
designation will be subject to the foregoing rules. Subject to the foregoing (relating
to a change by a Participant), the consent by a Participant s Spouse to a designation
will be irrevocable. The number of revocations and designations or changes thereto
will not be limited during any applicable election period. 

(e) 
       
     A designation of Beneficiary which, by reason of a failure to obtain required
spousal consent could not be given effect when made, may later be given effect if at
the relevant date the Participant has no Spouse or is not then otherwise required to
have spousal consent. 

A designation of Beneficiary will be effective as of the date of receipt by the
Administrator of a properly completed designation. 

11 

1.57  
       
      Recordkeeper  means any person or entity appointed by the Company to perform record
keeping and other administrative services on behalf of the Plan. If no Recordkeeper is
appointed, the Trustee will perform the duties of the Recordkeeper. 

1.58  
       
      Required Beginning Date  means the April 1 following the later of the calendar year in
which the Participant attains age seventy and one-half (70  1  / 2 ) or terminates service,
provided, however, that if the Participant is a  five-percent owner  within the meaning of
section 401(a)(9) of the Code, the Required Beginning Date will be the April 1 following the
Plan Year in which the Participant attains age seventy and one-half (70  1  / 2 ) regardless of
whether the Participant has terminated service. 

1.59  
       
      Rollover Account  means the portion of the Individual Account maintained by the Trustee
or the Recordkeeper for each Eligible Employee or Participant who makes a Rollover
Contribution reflecting the monetary value of such person s individual interest in the Trust
Fund attributable to such Rollover Contribution. 

1.60  
       
      Rollover Contribution  means any amount contributed or directly transferred to the Plan
which would constitute a rollover contribution within the meaning of the Code; provided,
however, that effective April 1, 2006, the following amounts will not constitute Rollover
Contributions under this Plan: (a) after-tax contributions, or (b) amounts held in an
individual retirement account or individual retirement annuity which does not constitute a
conduit account ( i.e. , holds money other than qualified retirement plan money). 

1.61  
       
      Safe Harbor Match Account  means the portion of the Individual Account maintained by the
Trustee or the Recordkeeper for each Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary
effective on and after April 1, 2006, reflecting the monetary value of such person s
individual interest in the Trust Fund attributable to Matching Contributions when the Plan
was a safe harbor Plan under sections 401(k) and 401(m) of the Code. 

1.62  
       
      Spouse  means the person to whom a Participant is legally married as of such
Participant s Benefit Commencement Date, or in the case of a Participant who dies prior to
his Benefit Commencement Date, the person to whom the Participant is legally married on the
date of his death. To the extent required by a QDRO pursuant to Section 9.20, a surviving
Spouse or former Spouse of a Participant will be treated as the Participant s Spouse. 

1.63  
       
      Trust Agreement 
means the Zale Corporation Savings   Investment Trust Agreement entered into between the
Company and the Trustee to carry out the purposes of the Plan and under which the Trust Fund
is maintained; provided, that if such agreement be amended or supplemented, Trust Agreement,
as of a particular date, will mean such agreement, as amended and supplemented and in force
on such date. 

1.64  
       
      Trust Fund  means all assets of whatsoever kind and nature from time to time held by the
Trustee pursuant to terms and conditions of the Trust Agreement out of which benefits of the
Plan are provided. The Trust Fund may be divided into Investment Funds as provided in
Section 16.1. 

1.65  
       
      Trustee  means the trustee or trustees acting at any time as Trustee under the Trust
Agreement. 

1.66  
       
      Valuation Date  means each day of the Plan Year on which the New York Stock Exchange is
open. 

12 

1.67  
       
      Year of Service  means a twelve (12)-month period commencing on the Employee s
Employment Commencement Date during which the Employee has one thousand (1,000) or more
Hours of Service. Effective April 1, 2006, in the event that an Employee does not perform
one thousand (1,000) Hours of Service during the twelve (12)-month period commencing on his
Employment Commencement Date, subsequent Years of Service will be determined by the Plan
Year, commencing with the Plan Year that begins during such Employee s initial employment
year. In connection with the change in Plan Year to the calendar year effective January 1,
2007, an Employee who does not complete one thousand (1,000) Hours of Service during his
initial employment year and whose eligibility is being determined on the basis of the Plan
Year, will be credited with a Year of Service if he performs one thousand (1,000) Hours of
Service during either the twelve (12) month period beginning on August 1, 2006 or the twelve
(12) month period beginning January 1, 2007. 

End of Article I 

13 

ARTICLE II 

ELIGIBILITY OF EMPLOYEES 

2.1  
       
      Eligibility to Participate in the Plan . An Eligible Employee who was a Participant in
the Plan on the Effective Date will continue to be a Participant on or after that date. An
Eligible Employee who was not a Participant on the Effective Date, will become a Participant
as of the Entry Date coinciding with or next following the date he will have both (a)
completed one (1) Year of Service, and (b) attained age twenty-one (21), if employed by an
Employer on such Entry Date. An Eligible Employee who completes the eligibility
requirements but is not employed by an Employer on his Entry Date will become a Participant
as provided in Section 2.2. An Employee who completes the service requirements while
employed by an Affiliated Company which is not an Employer will become a Participant as of
the date on which he becomes an Eligible Employee of an Employer (including, without
limitation, by reason of such Affiliated Company s adoption of the Plan as provided in
Article XIV and consequent redefinition as an Employer), or the date he attains age
twenty-one (21), if later. An Eligible Employee who completes the eligibility requirements
but does not elect to enroll in the Plan on the first Entry Date on which he is eligible may
elect to enroll as of any subsequent payroll period. 

2.2  
       
      Eligibility upon Reemployment . Each Eligible Employee who has satisfied the eligibility
requirements in Section 2.1 and is not employed by an Employer on the Entry Date on which he
would have become a Participant in the Plan, and who returns to employment with an Employer,
will be eligible to become a Plan Participant on the date on which he resumes employment as
an Eligible Employee with an Employer. 

Each Eligible Employee who has attained age twenty-one (21) but has not completed one (1)
Year of Service at the time of his termination of employment from the Employer and all
Affiliated Companies will be eligible to become a Participant as follows: (a) if the
Employee is reemployed by the Employer before incurring a Break in Service, he will have his
prior Hours of Service reinstated and will be eligible to become a Participant as of the
Entry Date coinciding with or next following the date he will have both (i) completed one
(1) Year of Service, and (ii) attained age twenty-one (21), if employed by an Employer as an
Eligible Employee on such Entry Date and (b) if the Employee is reemployed by the Employer
after incurring a Break in Service, his prior Hours of Service will be disregarded and he
will be eligible to become a Participant as of the Entry Date coinciding with or next
following the date he will have both (A) completed one (1) Year of Service, and (B) attained
age twenty-one (21), if he is employed by an Employer as an Eligible Employee on such Entry
Date. 

Each Eligible Employee who has not attained age twenty-one (21) and has completed one (1)
Year of Service at the time of his termination of employment from the Employer and all
Affiliated Companies, will be eligible to become a Participant on the date on which he will
have both resumed employment as an Eligible Employee with an Employer and attained age
twenty-one (21). 

2.3  
       
      Reemployment of Participant  . If the employment of a Participant is terminated for any reason and he subsequently is
reemployed by an Employer, he will be eligible to become a Participant on the date he
resumes employment with an Employer as an Eligible Employee. 

14 

2.4  
       
      Cessation of Participation . A Participant will immediately cease to be eligible to make
Pre-Tax Contributions and to receive an allocation of Matching Contributions under the Plan
upon the occurrence of either of the following events: 

(a) 
       
     termination of his salary reduction agreement established pursuant to Section
3.1; or 

(b) 
       
     termination of his status as an Eligible Employee with all Employers for any
reason. 

If a Participant is transferred to a class of employment not eligible for participation in
the Plan but continues to be employed by an Affiliated Company ( i.e ., he is no longer an
Eligible Employee), no further contributions to the Trust Fund will be made by or on behalf
of the Participant under the Plan with respect to periods on and after the transfer. Any
Participant described in the preceding sentence may recommence his participation in the
features of the Plan for which he was eligible at the time of the transfer to an ineligible
class if he is transferred back to eligible employment ( i.e ., he becomes an Eligible
Employee) and makes the appropriate elections through the Interactive Electronic
Communication system in accordance with Section 3.1. During the period of his employment in
such transferred position, the Participant will continue to be (i) eligible for withdrawals
(subject to the requirements of Article IX), (ii) permitted to transfer his Individual
Account among the Investment Funds, and (iii) permitted to change Beneficiaries in
accordance with the provisions of the Plan. 

2.5  
       
      Eligibility Upon Entry or Reentry into Eligible Class of Employees . In the event a
Participant is excluded because he is no longer an Eligible Employee as specified in this
Article II, such Employee will be eligible to become a Participant immediately upon his
return to status as an Eligible Employee. In the event that an Employee who is not a former
Participant in the Plan becomes an Eligible Employee, such Employee will be eligible to
become a Participant immediately if such Employee has satisfied the eligibility requirements
of Section 2.1 and would have previously been eligible to become a Participant had he been
an Eligible Employee. 

End of Article II 

15 

ARTICLE III 

CONTRIBUTIONS 

3.1  
       
      Pre-Tax Contributions . 

(a)  
       
      Amount of Pre-Tax Contributions . Effective as soon as administratively
practicable on or after April 1, 2006, unless the Participant elects otherwise, upon
satisfying the eligibility requirements of Article II, or upon his reemployment
after satisfying such eligibility requirements, the Participant will automatically
be enrolled in the Plan at a Pre-Tax Contribution level of two percent (2%) of
Compensation and will be deemed to have entered into a salary reduction agreement
with the Employer with respect to such Pre-Tax Contribution. Such automatic
enrollment will be implemented as soon as administratively feasible after the
Participant s satisfaction of the eligibility requirements or reemployment after
satisfying such eligibility requirements, as the case may be. Alternatively, such
Participant or any other Eligible Employee who is eligible to participate in the
Plan may enter into a salary reduction agreement electing to have the Employer make
Pre-Tax Contributions to the Trust Fund on his behalf in an amount equal to at least
one percent (1%) and not more than sixty percent (60%) (thirty percent (30%) if the
Participant is a Highly Compensated Employee) (in whole percentages) of his
Compensation each Plan Year, subject to the restrictions and limitations of Article
IV. 

(b)  
       
      Limit on Pre-Tax Contributions . No Participant will be permitted to have
Pre-Tax Contributions made under the Plan or under any other qualified plan
maintained by an Employer during any calendar year in excess of the dollar
limitation contained in section 402(g) of the Code (fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000) for year 2006, with such amount to be adjusted automatically to reflect
any cost-of-living adjustment authorized by section 402(g)(4) of the Code), as in
effect for such calendar year, except to the extent permitted under Section 3.4 of
this Article III and section 414(v) of the Code, if applicable. In the event that a
Participant s Pre-Tax Contributions exceed this dollar amount, such contributions
will be disposed of in accordance with Section 4.1. 

(c)  
       
      Salary Reduction Agreement . 

(i)  
       
      Nature of Agreement . The salary reduction agreement described in this
Section 3.1 will be a legally binding agreement whereby (A) the Participant
agrees that, as of the effective date of the agreement, the Compensation
otherwise payable to him thereafter will be reduced by an amount (as
selected or, in the case of automatic enrollment under Section 3.1(a) above,
deemed selected by the Participant) not to exceed the maximum percentage
permitted under Section 3.1(a), and (B) the Employer agrees to contribute
the total amount of such reduction in Compensation to the Trust Fund on
behalf of the Participant as a Pre-Tax Contribution under Section 3.1(a).
Such contributions will be made by the Employer to the Trust Fund as soon as
administratively possible after the payroll period to which such
contribution relates. Subject to the provisions of Section 3.1(c)(iv) and
Article IV, a Participant s salary reduction agreement will remain in effect
until modified or terminated in accordance with Section 3.1(c)(iii) or
Section 3.1(c)(iv). 

16 

(ii)  
       
      Effective Date of Agreement . The effective date of a Participant s
salary reduction agreement will be no earlier than the Entry Date following
the date such agreement is made (or deemed to be made in the case of a newly
eligible or rehired Eligible Employee pursuant to Section 3.1(a)). 

(iii)  
       
      Amendment of Pre-Tax Contribution Elections . As of any payroll period,
a Participant may amend his salary reduction agreement to stop making
Pre-Tax Contributions with respect to Compensation not yet paid using the
Interactive Electronic Communication system. If a Participant elects to stop
making Pre-Tax Contributions, the Participant may elect to resume making
Pre-Tax Contributions by so electing using the Interactive Electronic
Communication system. The effective date of such new salary reduction
agreement will be as soon as administratively feasible after such election
but no earlier than the first day of the next payroll period beginning after
the date the election is received by the Administrator through the
Interactive Electronic Communication system. A Participant may increase or
decrease his Pre-Tax Contributions (within the limits of Section 3.1(a)) by
so electing using the Interactive Electronic Communication system. The
effective date of the increase or decrease will be as soon as
administratively feasible after such election but no earlier than the first
day of the next payroll period beginning after the date the election is
received by the Administrator through the Interactive Electronic
Communication system. Effective April 1, 2006, subject to the maximum
(aggregate) percentage permitted under Section 3.1(a) and the limitations on
Annual Additions set forth in Article VII the Participant may elect to have
the amount of his Pre-Tax Contributions automatically increased by a
designated percentage each Plan Year. Such election will be made using the
Interactive Electronic Communication system. 

(iv)  
       
      Transfer to Ineligible Employment or Termination of Employment . A
Participant s salary reduction agreement will terminate automatically if the
Participant transfers to a class of employment not eligible for
participation in the Plan or if he terminates his employment as an Eligible
Employee with his Employer. Upon return of the Participant to eligible
employment, the Participant will be permitted to execute a new salary
reduction agreement and resume having contributions made to the Trust Fund
on his behalf under Section 3.1(a), provided that the effective date of the
new salary reduction agreement will be no earlier than the  later  of (A) the
first payroll period beginning after the new salary reduction
agreement is received in executed form by the Administrator or (B) the date
the Participant resumes eligible employment with an Employer. Transfers of
Participants to different payroll systems among the Employers will be
administered by procedures established by the Administrator. 

3.2  
       
      Matching Contributions . Each Plan Year, the Employer will make a Matching Contribution
to the Plan in an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the first four percent (4%) of
Compensation that each eligible Participant contributes to the Plan as a Pre-Tax
Contribution ( i.e. , a Pre-Tax Matched Contribution). In calculating the Matching
Contribution, any Pre-Tax Contribution made on behalf of a Participant for a payroll period
in excess of four percent (4%) of the Participant s Compensation paid during such payroll
period ( i.e. , a Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution) will not be considered. A 

17 

Participant will
be eligible for an allocation of Matching Contributions if he is employed on the last day of
the Plan Year or if the Participant retires on or after his Normal Retirement Date, dies or
becomes Disabled during the Plan Year. Matching Contributions made pursuant to this Section
will be subject to the limitations and restrictions of Article V. 

3.3  
       
      QNECs . The Employer, in its discretion, may contribute to the Trust Fund as a QNEC for
such Plan Year the amounts necessary to cause the Plan to satisfy the restrictions set forth
in Section 4.2 (regarding the actual deferral percentage test) and Section 5.1 (regarding
the actual contribution percentage test). QNECs will be allocated to all Participants or
only to Participants who are not Highly Compensated Employees, as elected by the Employer,
in the ratio in which each such Participant s Compensation for the Plan Year bears to the
total Compensation for such Participants for such Plan Year. For purposes of this
allocation, an Eligible Employee will be considered a Participant regardless of whether he
has elected to make Pre-Tax Contributions to the Plan. Each Plan Year an Employer will
designate the portion, if any, of the QNEC that it made for the Plan Year that will be
considered under Section 4.2 for the actual deferral percentage test and the portion, if
any, that will be considered under Section 5.1 for the actual contribution percentage test. 

3.4  
       
      Catch-Up Contributions . Each Participant who has attained age fifty (50) or who will
attain age fifty (50) by the close of the then current Plan Year, may elect for such Plan
Year to make Catch-Up Contributions pursuant to this Section 3.4. A Participant may make
Catch-Up Contributions pursuant to a salary reduction agreement in whole percentage
increments from one percent (1%) to fifty percent (50%) of his Compensation, subject to the
calendar year limit on such contributions under section 414(v) of the Code, when his Pre-Tax
Contributions exceed any of the following limits: (a) the Plan limit for Pre-Tax
Contributions, as set forth in Section 3.1(a); (b) the statutory limit for elective
deferrals under section 402(g) of the Code, as set forth in Section 3.1(b), or the statutory
limit on annual additions under section 415 of the Code, as set forth in Article VII; or (c)
the actual deferral percentage test limit under section 401(k)(3) of the Code, as set forth
in Section 4.2. 

Such Catch-Up Contributions will be made pursuant to administrative procedures established
by the Administrator. Such procedures will provide that Catch-Up Contributions will be
subject to a  withholding hierarchy  for purposes of determining the amount of Catch-Up
Contributions that may be contributed on behalf of a Participant. The Administrator will
determine the order of withholdings taken from a Participant s Compensation ( e.g.,  for
federal, state and local taxes, social security, wage garnishments, welfare plan
contributions, 401(k) deferrals, and similar withholdings) and Catch-Up Contributions will
be subject to such withholding hierarchy. As a result, Catch-Up Contributions may be
effectively limited to Compensation available after the application of such withholding
hierarchy. Further, to the extent applicable, all plans of the Company and its Affiliated
Companies will provide for catch-up contributions in accordance with the provisions of
section 414(v) of the Code and the final regulations issued thereunder. 

Catch-Up Contributions will not be subject to (i) the limits on elective deferrals under
section 402(g) of the Code (as set forth in Section 3.1(b)), (ii) the actual deferral
percentage limit under section 401(k)(3) of the Code (as set forth in Section 4.2), or (iii)
the limits on annual additions under section 415 of the Code (as set forth in Article VII).
Similarly, Catch-Up Contributions are not taken into account for purposes of section 

18 

410(b)
or 416 of the Code, except that Catch-Up Contributions made in prior Plan Years will be
taken into account in determining whether the Plan is top-heavy for the Plan Year under
Article XVII. Except as otherwise stated herein, Catch-Up Contributions will be treated as
Pre-Tax Contributions for all purposes under the Plan. 

3.5  
       
      Time and Form of Contributions . Payments of contributions due under Section 3.1 will be
made at such time as the Employer may determine but at least as promptly as the time
prescribed by regulations promulgated by the Department of Labor, and the Matching
Contributions due under Section 3.2 will be made at such time as the Employer will
determine, except that the Matching Contribution will be paid in full not later than the
time required by law to enable the Employer to deduct such contribution on its federal
income tax return with respect to its taxable year. All contributions will be made in cash
(by check or wire transfer), or in Common Stock as determined by the Chief Executive Officer
of the Company in his or her discretion. The Chief Executive Officer of the Company may
provide that all or a portion of such contributions will be allocated by payroll period
during the Plan Year. Contributions made after the last day of the Plan Year but within the
time for filing an Employer s federal income tax return (including extensions thereof) will
be deemed made as of the last day of that Plan Year if so directed by the Employer, except
such contributions will not share in increases, decreases, or income to the Trust Fund prior
to the date actually made. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon an Employer s request, a contribution which was made
upon a mistake of fact or conditioned upon initial qualification of the Plan (application
for which is made by the time prescribed by law for filing the Employer s tax return for the
taxable year in which the Plan is adopted, or such later date as the Secretary of the
Treasury may prescribe) or upon deductibility of the contribution will be returned to the
Employer within one (1) year after payment of the contribution, denial of the qualification,
or disallowance of the deduction (to the extent disallowed), as the case may be; provided,
however, the amount returned to an Employer due to mistake of fact or denial of
deductibility will not be increased by any earnings thereon and will be reduced by any
losses attributable to such amount. 

3.6  
       
      Limit on Employer Contributions . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of Sections
3.1, 3.2, or 3.3, the contribution of an Employer for any Plan Year (whether made pursuant
to Sections 3.1, 3.2, or 3.3) will in no event exceed an amount which will, under the law
then in effect, be deductible by the Employer in computing its federal taxes based on income
for its taxable year. As permitted by section 401(a)(27) of the Code, any Employer may make
contributions to the Plan without regard to net profits, current or accumulated. 

3.7  
       
      Manner of Making Contributions . All contributions to the Trust Fund will be paid
directly to the Trustee. In connection with each contribution, the Employer will provide the
Recordkeeper with information that: 

(a) 
       
     identifies each Participant on whose behalf the contribution is being made and
the amount thereof; 

(b) 
       
     states whether the amount contributed on behalf of the Participant is a Pre-Tax
Matched Contribution, a Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution, a Matching Contribution, a
QNEC, a Catch-Up Contribution, or a Rollover Contribution; and 

(c) 
       
     directs the investment of the amount contributed on behalf of the Participant. 

19 

3.8  
       
      Rollover Contributions . An Employee, regardless of whether he is a Participant in the
Plan, may make a Rollover Contribution to the Plan at any time pursuant to the provisions of
this Section 3.8. If the Employee is not a Participant, his Rollover Account will
constitute his entire interest under the Plan until such time, if any, as he satisfies the
eligibility requirements under Section 2.1 and elects to make Pre-Tax Contributions to the
Plan. The Recordkeeper will allocate and credit a Rollover Contribution to the Employee s
Rollover Account as of the Valuation Date immediately following the date on which the
Rollover Contribution is made. An investment election which directs that such contribution
be invested in one or more of the Investment Funds in accordance with Section 16.1 will be
completed through the Interactive Electronic Communication system with respect to the
Employee s Rollover Contribution. In no event will the existence of a Rollover Contribution
held for the benefit of an Employee be construed to entitle the Employee to any amount in
the Plan to which such Employee is not otherwise entitled under the other provisions of the
Plan. 

3.9  
       
      Contributions with Respect to Military Leave . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan
to the contrary, contributions, benefits and service credit with respect to qualified
military service will be provided in accordance with section 414(u) of the Code.
Specifically, such Participant will be given credit for qualified military service (as
defined in Chapter 43 of Title 38, United States Code) for eligibility and vesting purposes
in accordance with section 414(u) of the Code and will be eligible to make additional
contributions to the Plan with respect to such military service as provided under section
414(u) of the Code. Accordingly, a Participant who returns to employment with the Employer
pursuant to section 414(u) of the Code will be permitted, during the period that begins on
the date of reemployment and continues for five (5) years or, if less, three (3) times the
period of military service, to make Pre-Tax
Contributions and Catch-Up Contributions with respect to such period of military service,
and the Employer will make any associated Matching Contributions with respect to such
Pre-Tax Contributions. The amount of such Pre-Tax Contributions, Catch-Up Contributions and
Matching Contributions will be based on the terms of the Plan in effect during such period
of military service and will be calculated based on the Compensation the Participant would
have received but for such military service as provided in section 414(u)(7) of the Code.
Any such make-up contributions will not be taken into account for purposes of the limit on
elective deferrals under section 402(g) of the Code or the limit on annual additions under
section 415 of the Code for the Plan Year in which such contributions are actually made;
but, rather, will be subject to such limits for the Plan Year in which such contributions
relate. Further, such make-up contributions will not be subject to the actual deferral
percentage test of Section 4.2 of the Plan or the actual contribution percentage test of
Section 5.1 of the Plan as provided pursuant to sections 401(k) and 401(m) of the Code.
Finally, a Participant who took a distribution from the Plan prior to his reemployment will
be entitled to repay such distribution when he is reemployed pursuant to guidance issued
under section 414(u) of the Code. 

3.10  
       
      Administrative Mistake . 

(a)  
       
      Shortage in Contribution Amounts . If due to administrative error, the amount or
the percentage of a Participant s Pre-Tax Contributions and/or Catch-Up
Contributions that is deducted from his Compensation for any pay period is less than
the percentage elected by the Participant with respect to such pay period and the
Participant notifies the Administrator of the payroll deduction error within 

20 

forty-five (45) days after the date the Participant receives his next paycheck,
correction of such error will be made on a retroactive basis as follows: 

(i) 
       
     If the error is timely reported within forty-five (45) days
after receipt of the Participant s paycheck in which the error occurred, the
Participant will be permitted to make a temporary election to increase the
percentage to be deducted from his Compensation for future pay periods. Such
temporary election may provide for increased contributions to the Plan in any
of the following ways: 

(A) 
       
     Over the remaining number of pay periods in the
applicable Plan Year; 

(B) 
       
     Over any number less than the remaining pay
periods during the applicable Plan Year; or 

(C) 
       
     As a lump sum payroll deduction in any one or
more of the remaining pay periods in the Plan Year. 

The Participant s make-up contributions with respect to Pre-Tax
Contributions will, to the extent applicable, be subject to the applicable
limitation on Pre-Tax Contributions under section 402(g) of the Code and
will be counted for purposes of applying the limitations under Section 4.2
(regarding the actual deferral percentage test), Section 5.1 (regarding the
actual contribution percentage test), and Article VII (regarding the
limitations on Annual Additions) for the Plan Year during which such
contributions are made. The Participant s make-up contributions with
respect to Catch-Up Contributions will be subject to the annual limit on
Catch-Up Contributions under section 414(v) of the Code. 

(ii) 
       
     If the error is timely reported within forty-five (45) days
after receipt of the Participant s paycheck in which the error occurred but
such error relates to the preceding Plan Year, the Employer will make an
additional contribution to the Plan to the extent necessary to correct the
error. Such additional make-up contribution will be made in the form of a
nonelective contribution with respect to errors in Pre-Tax Contributions and
Catch-Up Contributions. The nonelective contributions made pursuant to this
Section 3.10(a)(ii) will be fully vested and subject to the same distribution
restrictions as apply to Pre-Tax Contributions. Any such nonelective
contributions will not count against the applicable limitation on Pre-Tax
Contributions under section 402(g) of the Code for either the Plan Year to
which such contributions relate or the Plan Year in which such contributions
are made; however, the nonelective contributions that are attributable to
Pre-Tax Contributions will be counted for purposes of applying the limitations
under Section 4.2 (regarding the actual deferral percentage test), and Article
VII (regarding the limitations on Annual Additions) for the Plan Year to which
the contributions relate. 

The Employer will also make a corresponding Matching Contribution with
respect to such of the Pre-Tax Contributions made up by Participants or the
Employer as are also Pre-Tax Matched Contributions. Such Matching
Contribution(s) will be counted for purposes of applying the limitations

21 

under Section 5.1 (regarding the actual contribution percentage test) and
Article VII (regarding the limitations on Annual Additions) for the Plan
Year to which the contributions relate. 

If correction is effectuated by the Employer, earnings will be added to the
Pre-Tax Contributions or Matching Contributions, as applicable, pursuant to
procedures established by the Administrator, for the period commencing on
the date the Pre-Tax Contributions or Matching Contributions, as applicable,
should have been made, and ending on the date the make-up contribution is
actually made to the Plan. Actual earnings will be credited to those
make-up contributions made by Participants. 

Unless the Administrator determines that unusual and extenuating
circumstances warrant otherwise, no make-up contributions will be permitted
or made with respect to any prior shortage in the amount of Pre-Tax
Contribution or Catch-Up Contribution deductions which a Participant knew or
should have known to have occurred but as to which such Participant failed
to give timely notice ( i.e. , within forty-five (45) days after receipt of
his next paycheck) to the Administrator; instead, the Participant s Pre-Tax
Contribution or Catch-Up contribution deduction amounts will only be
corrected on a prospective basis. In addition, except as provided above, in
no event will Participants be required or permitted
to retroactively make either Pre-Tax Contributions or Catch-Up Contributions
for any period for which such contributions were not made. 

(b)  
       
      Over-payment of Contributions . If due to an administrative error, the amount or
percentage of a Participant s Pre-Tax Contributions or Catch-Up Contributions that
is deducted from his Compensation for any pay period is more than the percentage
elected by the Participant with respect to such pay period, to the extent necessary
to correct the error and in accordance with rules established by the Administrator,
the Participant may request both a refund of the excess contributions and
prospective reduction of his Pre-Tax Contribution or Catch-Up Contribution deduction
amounts by notifying the Administrator of the payroll deduction error within
forty-five (45) days after receipt of the Participant s paycheck in which the error
occurred. The Matching Contributions, if any, associated with any such excess
Pre-Tax Contributions which are refunded to the Participant will be forfeited to the
Plan. In the event that the Participant notifies the Administrator of the error
more than forty-five (45) days after receiving his paycheck, such correction in
Pre-Tax Contribution or Catch-Up Contribution deduction amounts will be done only on
a prospective basis and no refund of the excess amounts will be permitted by reason
of such mistake. 

End of Article III 

22 

ARTICLE IV 

LIMITATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS ON PRE-TAX CONTRIBUTIONS 

4.1  
       
      Excess Elective Deferrals . 

(a)  
       
      Determination of Excess Elective Deferrals . If the Pre-Tax Contributions made
on behalf of a Participant for a calendar year exceed the annual dollar limit
allowed for such Participant s Pre-Tax Contributions for that year as set forth in
Section 3.1(b), the amount of such excess will be referred to as  Excess Elective
Deferrals.  Excess Elective Deferrals (as adjusted for the income or loss
attributable to such Excess Elective Deferrals) will be distributed to the
Participant not later than the April 15 immediately following the calendar year of
the Participant for which the Excess Elective Deferrals were made to the Plan. For
purposes of this Section 4.1, Pre-Tax Unmatched Contributions will first be
considered as Excess Elective Deferrals and if such Pre-Tax Unmatched Contributions
are not sufficient to eliminate the Excess Elective Deferrals, then Pre-Tax Matched
Contributions will be considered as Excess Elective Deferrals and any Matching
Contributions made in connection therewith will be forfeited in accordance with
Section 4.1(c). 

(b)  
       
      Income and Loss Attributable to Excess Elective Deferrals . The Administrator
will reduce the amount of the Excess Elective Deferrals for a calendar year
distributable to the Participant under this Section 4.1 by the amount of Excess
Contributions (as determined under Section 4.2), if any, previously distributed to
the Participant for the Plan Year beginning in that calendar year. Such Excess
Elective Deferrals will be further adjusted for any applicable investment income or
losses attributable to such amounts for the Plan Year. The Administrator will
determine such net income or net loss in the same manner as described in Section
4.2(b) for Excess Contributions, except the numerator of the allocation fraction
will be the amount of the Participant s Excess Elective Deferrals for the calendar
year under this Section 4.1 and the denominator of the allocation fraction will be
the balance in the Participant s Employee Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account
and/or Employee Pre-Tax Matched Contribution Account, as applicable, attributable to
those Pre-Tax Contributions which constitute Excess Elective Deferrals as of the end
of the calendar year (without regard to the net income or net loss for the calendar
year on that portion of the Participant s Employee Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution
Account and/or Employee Pre-Tax Matched Contribution Account, as applicable);
provided, however, if there is a loss attributable to such excess amount, the amount
of the distribution adjusted for such loss will be limited to an amount which does
not exceed the  lesser  of (i) the balance of the Participant s Employee Pre-Tax
Unmatched Contribution Account and/or Employee Pre-Tax Matched Contribution Account,
as applicable or (ii) the Pre-Tax Unmatched Contributions or Pre-Tax Matched
Contributions, as applicable, made on behalf of the Participant for that calendar
year. 

For periods prior to April 1, 2006, in adjusting a Participant s Excess Elective
Deferrals for the income or loss attributable to such Excess Elective Deferrals, the
income or loss attributable to such Excess Elective Deferrals for the  gap period 
will not be considered. For purposes of this Section 4.1,  gap period  will mean the
period beginning with the first day of the calendar year next following 

23 

the calendar
year for which the Excess Elective Deferrals were made on behalf of the Participant
and ending on the date such Excess Elective Deferrals are distributed to the
Participant. Effective on and after April 1, 2006, the Administrator will adjust the
Excess Elective Deferrals by the net income or loss accrued thereon during the gap
period by taking ten percent (10%) of the net income or loss determined in
accordance with the formula set forth in the preceding paragraph and multiplying it
by the number of whole calendar months between the end of the Plan Year in which
such Excess Elective Deferrals occurred and the date of distribution to the
applicable Participant(s), counting the month of distribution if such distribution
occurs after the fifteenth (15th) of the month. 

(c)  
       
      Associated Matching Contributions . If Excess Elective Deferrals are distributed
to a Participant from the Plan pursuant to this Section 4.1, the Matching
Contribution, if any, to which such Excess Elective Deferrals relate (plus any
income and minus any loss attributable thereto), determined after the application of
Section 5.2 (regarding the actual contribution percentage test), will be forfeited
at the time the Excess Elective Deferrals are distributed, and the forfeitures will
be applied as provided in Section 9.1(b). 

(d)  
       
      Multiple Plan Participation . If the Participant also (i) participates in one or
more other qualified cash or deferred arrangements within the meaning of section
401(k) of the Code, (ii) has an employer contribution made on his behalf pursuant to
a salary reduction agreement under section 408(k) of the Code, or (iii) has an
employer contribution made on his behalf pursuant to a salary reduction agreement
toward the purchase of an annuity contract under section 403(b) of the Code, and the
sum of the elective deferrals (as defined in section 402(g)(3) of the Code) that are
made for the Participant during a calendar year under such other arrangements and
this Plan exceeds the annual dollar limit allowed for such Participant s
contributions for that calendar year, the Participant will, not later than the March
1 following the close of his calendar year for which the Excess Elective Deferrals
have been made, notify the Administrator in writing of the portion of the Excess
Elective Deferrals that he wishes to be allocated to this Plan, if any. If all
plans, contracts and agreements described in section 401(k), 403(b) and 408(k) of
the Code pursuant to which the Participant is able to defer amounts for a calendar
year for which Excess Elective Deferrals have been made are sponsored by an
Affiliated Company, the Administrator will determine to which plan, contract or
agreement (including the Plan) the Excess Elective Deferrals will be allocated for
that calendar year, and if the Excess Elective Deferrals are to be allocated to the
Plan, the Administrator will notify the Trustee and the Participant in writing not
later than March 1 following the close of that calendar year. Such notification will
be deemed to be a notification by the Participant to the Administrator under this
Section 4.1(d). The portion of the Excess Elective Deferrals allocated to this
Plan, if any, will be adjusted for income and loss in the manner provided in Section
4.1(b) above and will then be distributed to the Participant no later than the
immediately following April 15. 

If the Pre-Tax Contributions made on behalf of a Participant for a calendar year do
not exceed the annual dollar limit allowed for such Participant s contributions for
that calendar year and the Administrator has not received any written Notice from
the 

24 

Participant (or been deemed to have  received written Notice from the
Participant pursuant to the provisions of this Plan ) by the March 1 immediately
following that calendar year notifying the Administrator that the Participant
allocates a portion of the Excess Elective Deferrals, if any, for that calendar year
to the Plan, the Administrator may assume that none of the Pre-Tax Contributions
made on behalf of the Participant for that calendar year constitute Excess Elective
Deferrals and that no distribution is required to be made from the Participant s
Pre-Tax Contribution Accounts pursuant to this Section 4.1. Notwithstanding the fact
that Excess Elective Deferrals have been (or will be) distributed to a Highly
Compensated Employee as provided above, the excess amount of such Pre-Tax
Contributions or the portion of such Pre-Tax Contributions that are deemed to
constitute Excess Elective Deferrals by reason of the Administrator s or
Participant s written Notice of allocation hereunder will still be treated as a
Pre-Tax Contribution for purposes of applying the actual deferral percentage test
described in Section 4.2 for the Plan Year in which such Excess Elective Deferrals
were made, except to the extent provided under rules prescribed by the Secretary of
the Treasury. 

4.2  
       
      Actual Deferral Percentage Test . The Plan will satisfy one of the actual deferral
percentage tests set forth in section 401(k)(3) of the Code. Such tests will be performed
using the  prior year testing method  as described in section 401(k)(3) of the Code. In
addition, the Plan will not be permissively aggregated with another plan for purposes of
performing such tests unless such plan also uses the prior year testing method. 

(a)  
       
      Prospective Reduction or Suspension of Pre-Tax Contributions . Notwithstanding
any provisions of the Plan to the contrary, if the Administrator determines that a
Participant s Pre-Tax Contributions under Section 3.1(a) for any Plan Year would
cause the Plan to fail to meet the nondiscrimination requirements of section 401(k)
of the Code, then the Administrator may, in its sole discretion, reduce (or suspend,
if necessary) the rate of future Pre-Tax Contributions of those Participants who are
in the group of Highly Compensated Employees; such reduction to first apply to the
highest rate on a uniform basis to all such Participants who are contributing the
highest rate, and so on, in descending order from the highest rate to the lowest
rate. The Administrator will establish such rules and give such directions to the
Trustee as will be appropriate to carry out the above provisions of this Section
4.2(a). 

(b)  
       
      Determination and Distribution of Excess Contributions . If after making the
adjustments in Section 4.2(a), if any,  Excess Contributions  as determined pursuant
to this Section 4.2(b) remain, such Excess Contributions will be distributed
pursuant to the following provisions. In the event that the
amounts of Pre-Tax Contributions made by the group of Participants who are Highly
Compensated Employees for any Plan Year, when expressed as an average of the sum of
the individual percentage of Compensation for such Plan Year, of each Participant
who is a Highly Compensated Employee for such Plan Year (including a zero percentage
(0%) for each noncontributing Participant in such group) results in an  average
deferral percentage  (within the meaning of section 401(k) of the Code) for such
group, when compared to the corresponding  average deferral percentage  of the group
of Participants who are not Highly Compensated Employees for the prior Plan Year, in
excess of the permissible  average deferral percentage  for such group under section
401(k)(3) of the Code, using the nondiscrimination test applicable to Pre-Tax
Contributions

25 

described in Treas. Reg.   1.401(k)-1(b) for Plan Years beginning
before August 1, 2006 and Treas. Reg.   1.401(k)-2 for Plan Years beginning on and
after August 1, 2006, then the amount of Pre-Tax Contributions
that caused such
excess will be deemed to be  Excess Contributions  for such Plan Year and will be
distributed to Participants who are Highly Compensated Employees pursuant to this
Section 4.2(b). 

Excess Contributions, adjusted for any applicable Trust Fund investment income or
losses attributable thereto as provided in this Section 4.2(b) for the applicable
Plan Year will be distributed to the applicable Participants in the group of Highly
Compensated Employees to the extent possible within two and one-half (2  1  / 2 ) months
following the Plan Year in which such Excess Contributions occurred, but in no event
later than the close of the Plan Year following the Plan Year in which such Excess
Contributions occurred. 

The Administrator will determine the net income or net loss allocable to the
Participant s Employee Pre-Tax Matched Contribution Account and/or Employee Pre-Tax
Unmatched Contribution Account for the Plan Year (including, if applicable, the QNEC
Account for the Plan Year) by multiplying such account(s) by a fraction, the
numerator of which is such Participant s Excess Contributions for the Plan Year and
the denominator of which is the balance in the Participant s Employee Pre-Tax
Matched Contribution Account and/or Employee Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account
(including the QNEC Account if any of such contributions are used for purposes of
the actual deferral percentage test in this Section 4.2 for the Plan Year) without
regard to any income or loss occurring during such Plan Year; provided, however, if
there is a loss attributable to such excess amount, the amount of the distribution
adjusted for such loss will be limited to an amount which does not exceed the  lesser 
of (i) the balance of the Participant s Employee Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution
Account, Employee Pre-Tax Matched Contribution Account and/or QNEC Account, as
applicable or (ii) the Pre-Tax Unmatched Contributions or Pre-Tax Matched
Contributions, as applicable, made on behalf of the Participant for that Plan Year. 

For periods prior to April 1, 2006, in adjusting a Participant s Excess
Contributions for the income or loss attributable to such Excess Contributions, the
income or loss attributable to such Excess Contributions for the  gap period  ( i.e. ,
the period beginning with the first day of the Plan Year next following the Plan
Year for which the Excess Contributions were made by the Participant and ending on
the date the Excess Contributions are distributed to the Participant) will not be
included. Effective on and after April 1, 2006, the Administrator will
adjust the Excess Contributions by the net income or loss accrued thereon during the
gap period by taking ten percent (10%) of the net income or loss determined in the
preceding paragraph and multiplying it by the number of whole calendar months
between the end of the Plan Year in which such Excess Contributions were made and
the date of distribution to the applicable Participant(s), counting the month of
distribution if distribution occurs after the fifteenth (15th) of the month. 

The Participant s  Excess Contributions  to be distributed in accordance with this
Section 4.2(b) will be inclusive of such  Excess Contributions  previously
distributed as an  Excess Elective Deferral  under Section 4.1(a) with respect to
the same Plan Year. 

26 

For each Participant who is a Highly Compensated Employee, the sum of his Excess
Contributions will be determined in the following manner. First, the Administrator
will determine how much the average deferral percentage of the Highly Compensated
Employee with the highest average deferral percentage would need to be reduced to
satisfy one of the actual deferral percentage tests set forth in section 401(k)(3)
of the Code OR equal the average deferral percentage of the Highly Compensated
Employee with the next highest average deferral percentage. The amount of Excess
Contributions associated with such reduction in average deferral percentage will
equal the amount of such hypothetical reduction in the average deferral percentage,
multiplied by the Highly Compensated Employee s Compensation. Second, this process
will be repeated until the requirements of section 401(k)(3) of the Code would be
satisfied had actual average deferral percentages equaled the reduced average
deferral percentage described above. The sum of the Excess Contributions resulting
from such hypothetical reductions will then be distributed, using the  dollar
leveling method,  commencing with the Highly Compensated Employee with the highest
dollar amount of Pre-Tax Contributions. Such reductions will be done on a uniform
basis to all Participants who are in the group of Participants who are Highly
Compensated Employees and who are contributing the highest dollar amount, and so on,
in descending order from the highest to the lowest dollar amount of Pre-Tax
Contributions, until all Excess Contributions have been distributed in accordance
with applicable regulations. The portion of the  Excess Contributions  applicable
to each Participant in the group of Participants who are Highly Compensated
Employees, adjusted in accordance with applicable regulations for any applicable
Trust Fund investment income or losses, will be distributed to such Participant in a
lump-sum cash amount and debited from his Pre-Tax Contribution Account as of the
date it is distributed. Any such distribution will first be made from the
Participant s Pre-Tax Unmatched Contributions, and only if distribution of all of
the Participant s Pre-Tax Unmatched Contributions is not sufficient to fully
distribute his Excess Contribution will distribution be made of the Participant s
Pre-Tax Matched Contributions. 

Any portion of the Matching Contribution that is attributable to such distributed
Excess Contributions will either be forfeited or retained in the Plan and an
additional Matching Contribution will be allocated to Participants who are
Non-Highly Compensated Employees in accordance with the provisions of Treas. Reg.
 1.401(k)-1(f)(5)(iii) for Plan Years beginning before August 1, 2006 and
Treas. Reg.   1.401(k)-2(b)(4)(ii) for Plan Years beginning on and after August 1,
2006. In the event that all or any portion of the Matching Contribution is
forfeited pursuant to the preceding sentence, such forfeiture will be used to reduce
the amount of such Matching Contribution, to fund QNECs to the Plan or to pay
approved administrative expenses under the Plan for the Plan Year in which the
forfeiture occurs. 

In the event that a Participant has elected to make Catch-Up Contributions through
the Interactive Electronic Communications system and would otherwise have all or a
portion of his Pre-Tax Contributions distributed from the Plan pursuant to this
Section 4.2(b), then such Pre-Tax Contributions will be recharacterized as Catch-Up
Contributions under the Plan in an amount equal to the  lesser  of (A) the amount of
the excess Pre-Tax Contributions that would 

27 

otherwise be distributed in order to
enable the Plan to satisfy the actual deferral percentage test, or (B) the statutory
limit on Catch-Up Contributions under section 414(v) of the Code. The remainder of
such Participant s excess Pre-Tax Contributions which cannot be recharacterized and
deferred as a Catch-Up Contribution will be distributed to the Participant pursuant
to this Section 4.2(b). 

4.3  
       
      Other Permissible Methods of Testing and Correction . The provisions of this Article IV
are intended to conform to sections 401(k) and 402(g) of the Code. In the event that the
Administrator determines, based on changes to the Code or related interpretations or
guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service, that the requirements of such Code sections
may be applied in a manner different from that prescribed in this Article IV, the
Administrator may make appropriate adjustments to the administration of the Plan to
incorporate such changes to the Code or interpretations or guidance. If a change to the Code
or interpretations or guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service results in more than
one additional option in the manner in which this Article IV may be administered, the
Administrator will have the limited discretion to select the option to be used, provided
that such option, when compared to the other option or options, results in the smallest
adjustment to Participants  Individual Accounts. 

End of Article IV 

28 

ARTICLE V 

LIMITATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS ON MATCHING CONTRIBUTIONS 

5.1  
       
      Actual Contribution Percentage Test . The Plan will satisfy one of the actual
contribution percentage tests set forth in section 401(m)(2) of the Code. Such tests will
be performed using the  prior year testing method  as described in section 401(m)(2) of the
Code. In addition, the Plan will not be permissively aggregated with another plan for
purposes of performing such tests, unless such plan also uses the prior year testing method. 

(a)  
       
      Prospective Reduction of Matching Contribution . Notwithstanding any provisions
of the Plan to the contrary, if the Administrator determines that the Matching
Contribution to be allocated under Section 3.2 for any Plan Year would cause the
Plan to fail to meet the nondiscrimination requirements of section 401(m) of the
Code, then the Employer may, in its sole discretion, reduce the amount of the
Matching Contribution for the Plan Year on behalf of those Participants who are in
the group of Highly Compensated Employees, such reduction to first apply to the
highest rate being matched, on a uniform basis to all such Participants who are
contributing the highest rate, and so on, in descending order from the highest rate
to the lowest rate. The Administrator will establish such rules and give such
directions to the Trustee as will be appropriate to carry out the provisions of this
Section 5.1(a). 

(b)  
       
      Determination and Distribution of Excess Aggregate Contributions . If, after
making the adjustments required by Section 5.1(a), if any,  Excess Aggregate
Contributions  as determined pursuant to this Section 5.1(b) remain, such Excess
Aggregate Contributions will be distributed pursuant to the following provisions.
In the event that the amounts of the Matching Contributions made to the group of
Participants who are Highly Compensated Employees for any Plan Year, when expressed
as an average of the sum of the individual percentage of Compensation for such Plan
Year of each Participant who is a Highly Compensated Employee for such Plan Year
(including a zero percentage (0%) for each noncontributing Participant in such
group) result in an  average contribution percentage  (within the meaning of section
401(m) of the Code) for such group that is in excess of the permissible  average
contribution percentage  for such group under section 401(m)(2) of the Code, using
the nondiscrimination test applicable to Matching Contributions described in Treas.
Reg.   1.401(m)-1(b) for Plan Years beginning before August 1, 2006 and in Treas.
Reg.   1.401(m)-2(a) for Plan Years beginning on and after August 1, 2006, then the
portion of the Matching Contributions that caused such excess will be deemed to be
 Excess Aggregate Contributions  for such Plan Year and will be distributed to
Participants who are Highly Compensated Employees pursuant to this Section 5.1(b). 

Excess Aggregate Contributions to a Participant, adjusted for any applicable Trust
Fund investment income or losses attributable thereto in the manner prescribed in
this Section 5.1 for the applicable Plan Year, will be debited from the
Participant s Matching Contribution Account and distributed to such
Participant to the extent possible within two and one-half (2  1  / 2 ) months following the
close of the Plan Year in which such Excess Aggregate Contributions 

29 

occurred but in
no event later than the close of the Plan Year following the Plan Year in which such
Excess Aggregate Contributions occurred. 

The Administrator will determine the net income or net loss allocable to the
Participant s Matching Contribution Account for the Plan Year (including, if
applicable, the QNEC Account for the Plan Year) by multiplying such account(s) by a
fraction, the numerator of which is such Participant s Excess Aggregate
Contributions for the Plan Year and the denominator of which is the balance in the
Participant s Matching Contribution Account (including the QNEC Account if any of
such contributions are used for purposes of the actual contribution percentage test
in this Section 5.1 for the Plan Year) without regard to any income or loss
occurring during such Plan Year; provided, however, if there is a loss attributable
to such excess amount, the amount of the distribution adjusted for such loss will be
limited to an amount which does not exceed the  lesser  of (i) the balance of the
Participant s Matching Contribution Account and/or QNEC Account, as applicable, or
(ii) the Matching Contributions made on behalf of the Participant for that Plan
Year. 

For periods prior to April 1, 2006, in adjusting a Participant s Excess Aggregate
Contributions for the income or loss attributable to such Excess Aggregate
Contributions, the income or loss attributable to such Excess Aggregate
Contributions for the  gap period  ( i.e. , the period beginning with the first day of
the Plan Year next following the Plan Year for which the Excess Aggregate
Contributions were made to the Participant and ending on the date the Excess
Aggregate Contributions are distributed to the Participant). Effective on and after
April 1, 2006, the Administrator will adjust the Excess Aggregate Contributions by
the net income or loss accrued thereon during the gap period by taking ten percent
(10%) of the net income or loss determined in the preceding paragraph and
multiplying it by the number of whole calendar months between the end of the Plan
Year in which Excess Aggregate Contributions were made and the date of distribution,
counting the month of distribution if distribution occurs after the fifteenth (15th)
of the month. 

For each Participant who is a Highly Compensated Employee, the sum of his Excess
Aggregate Contributions will be determined as follows. First, the Administrator will
determine how much the average contribution percentage of the Highly Compensated
Employee with the highest average contribution percentage would need to be reduced
to satisfy the requirements of section 401(m) of the Code or equal the average
contribution percentage of the Highly Compensated Employee with the next highest
average contribution percentage. The amount of Excess Aggregate Contributions
associated with such reduction in the average contribution percentage will equal the
amount of such hypothetical reduction in average contribution percentage, multiplied
by the Highly Compensated Employee s Compensation. Second, this process will be
repeated until the requirements of section 401(m) of the Code would be satisfied had
actual average contribution percentages equaled the reduced average contribution
percentages described above. The sum of Excess Aggregate Contributions resulting
from such hypothetical reductions will then be distributed, using the  dollar
leveling method,  commencing with the Highly Compensated
Employee with the highest dollar amount of Matching Contributions. Such reductions
will be done on a uniform basis to all Participants who are Highly 

30 

Compensated
Employees and who are being matched the highest dollar amount, and so on, in
descending order from the highest to the lowest dollar amount in accordance with
applicable Treasury Regulations. The portion of the  Excess Aggregate Contributions 
applicable to each such Participant in the group of Participants who are Highly
Compensated Employees, adjusted in accordance with applicable regulations for any
applicable Trust Fund investment income or losses, will be distributed to the
Participant in a lump sum cash payment and debited from his Matching Contribution
Account as of the date it is distributed. 

5.2  
       
      Testing of Pre-Tax Contributions Under Contribution Percentage Test . Notwithstanding
the foregoing provisions of this Article V or of Article IV, all or a portion of the Pre-Tax
Contributions made on behalf of eligible Non-Highly Compensated Employees may be treated as
Matching Contributions made on behalf of such eligible Non-Highly Compensated Employees for
the purpose of meeting the actual contribution percentage test set forth in Section 5.1;
provided, that the actual deferral percentage test of Section 4.2 can be met, both when the
Pre-Tax Contributions treated as Matching Contributions hereunder are included in performing
such actual deferral percentage test and when such Pre-Tax Contributions are excluded in
performing such actual deferral percentage test. Except for purposes of meeting the actual
contribution percentage test of Section 5.1 to the extent described hereunder, any such
Pre-Tax Contributions will continue to be treated as Pre-Tax Contributions for all other
purposes of the Plan. 

5.3  
       
      Other Permissible Methods of Testing and Corrections . The provisions of this Article V
are intended to conform to section 401(m) of the Code. In the event that the Administrator
determines, based on changes to the Code or related interpretations or guidance issued by
the Internal Revenue Service, that the requirements of such Code section may be applied in a
manner different from that prescribed in this Article V, the Administrator may make
appropriate adjustments to the administration of the Plan to incorporate such changes to the
Code or interpretations or guidance. If a change to the Code or interpretations or guidance
issued by the Internal Revenue Service results in more than one additional option in the
manner in which this Article V may be administered, the Administrator will have the limited
discretion to select the option to be used; provided, that such option, when compared to the
other option or options, results in the smallest adjustment to Participants  Individual
Accounts. 

End of Article V 

31 

ARTICLE VI 

ALLOCATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS 

6.1  
       
      Establishment of Individual Accounts . The Recordkeeper will establish and maintain a
separate account as a record of each Participant s interest in the Trust Fund with respect
to each Individual Account in which a Participant has an interest, including, as
appropriate, sub-accounts for the Participant s Pre-Tax Contributions, his Matching
Contributions, and his Rollover Contributions. One or more sub-accounts will be maintained
within each Individual Account to reflect the Participant s investment elections among the
Investment Funds. 

6.2  
       
      Allocation of Pre-Tax Contributions . As of each Allocation Date, but after adjustment
of the Individual Accounts as provided in Section 8.2, the Employer contributions deposited
with the Trustee during the period since the last Allocation Date that were made pursuant to
a salary reduction agreement entered into with a Participant pursuant to Section 3.1 will be
allocated by the Recordkeeper to the Participant s Pre-Tax Contribution Accounts; provided
however, that the amount allocated hereunder will be subject to the limitations of Sections
4.1 and 4.2. 

6.3  
       
      Allocation of Matching Contributions . As of each Allocation Date, but after adjustment
of the Individual Accounts as provided in Section 8.2, and after applying the limitations of
Section 5.1, the Administrator will, to the extent permitted by the actual contribution
percentage test of Section 5.1, direct the Recordkeeper to allocate the Matching
Contribution made pursuant to Section 3.2 for the period ending on such Allocation Date and
any forfeitures that were applied to reduce Matching Contributions, as provided in Section
9.1(b) for said period, and will credit the same to the Matching Contribution Accounts of
all Participants for whom the Matching Contributions were made. 

6.4  
       
      Allocation of QNECs . As of the last day of each Plan Year, but after adjustment of the
Individual Accounts as provided in Section 8.2, if an Employer made QNECs for a Plan Year
under Section 3.3 on behalf of Participants who are Non-Highly Compensated Employees in
order to insure that the actual deferral percentage tests described in Section 4.2 or the
actual contribution percentage test described in Section 5.1 are met for such Plan Year,
such QNECs will be allocated to the QNEC Accounts of the Non-Highly Compensated Employees
determined by the Committee in the manner determined by the Committee. 

6.5  
       
      Credit of Rollover Contributions . A Rollover Contribution made by an Employee during
the period since the last Allocation Date will be credited to his Rollover Account. 

6.6  
       
      Included, Individual Accounts . For the purposes of this Article VI, references to the Individual Accounts of
Participants will include the Individual Accounts of those Participants who die, become
Disabled, retire, or terminate their services during the Plan Year in question. 

End of Article VI 

32 

ARTICLE VII 

LIMITATION ON ALLOCATIONS 

7.1  
       
      Definitions . For purposes of this Article VII, the following terms and phrases will
have these respective meanings. 

(a) 
       
       415 Compensation   will mean the total of all amounts paid by the Employer to or
for the benefit of a Participant for services rendered or labor performed for the
Employer while a Participant, which are required to be reported on the Participant s
federal income tax withholding statement or statements (Form W-2 or its subsequent
equivalent). Further, 415 Compensation will include: 

(i) 
       
     elective deferrals (as defined in section 402(g)(3) of the
Code) from compensation to be paid by the Employer to the Participant; and 

(ii) 
       
     any amount which is contributed or deferred by the Employer at
the election of the Participant and which is not includable in the gross income
of the Participant by reason of sections 125, 132(f)(4) or 457 of the Code. 

(b) 
       
       Annual Additions   of a Participant for any Limitation Year will mean the total
of (i) the Matching Contributions, Pre-Tax Contributions (excluding Catch-Up
Contributions), QNECs, and forfeitures, if any, allocated to such Participant s
Accounts for such Limitation Year, (ii) the Participant s contributions, if any,
(excluding any Rollover Contributions) for such Limitation Year, and (iii) amounts
referred to in sections 415(l)(1) and 419A(d)(2) of the Code (regarding certain
medical benefits). 

(c) 
       
       Limitation Year   will mean the Plan Year. 

(d) 
       
       Maximum Annual Additions   of a Participant for any Limitation Year will mean
the  lesser  of (i) forty thousand dollars ($40,000), as adjusted for cost of living
changes, or (ii) one hundred percent (100%) of such Participant s 415 Compensation
during such Limitation Year, except that the limitation in this Section 7.1(d) will
not apply to any contribution for medical benefits (within the meaning of section
419A(f)(2) of the Code) after a severance from service with the Employer or an
Affiliated Company which is otherwise treated as an Annual Addition or to any amount
otherwise treated as an Annual Addition under section 415(l)(1) of the Code. 

7.2  
       
      Disposition of Excess Annual Additions . In no event will the Annual Additions credited
to a Participant s Individual Accounts for any Limitation Year exceed the Maximum Annual
Additions for such Participant for such
Limitation Year. If as a result of allocation of forfeitures, a reasonable error in
estimating a Participant s Compensation, a reasonable error in determining the amount of
elective deferrals (within the meaning of section 402(g)(3) of the Code) that may be made
with respect to any individual under the limits of section 415 of the Code, or because of
other limited facts and circumstances, the Annual Additions that would be credited to a
Participant s Individual Accounts for a Limitation Year would nonetheless exceed the Maximum
Annual Additions for such Participant for such Limitation Year, such excess Annual Additions
will be disposed of as follows: 

33 

(a) 
       
     First, by returning to such Participant his Pre-Tax Unmatched Contributions,
adjusted for income or loss allocated thereto as set forth in Section 4.1(b); 

(b) 
       
     Next, by returning to such Participant his Pre-Tax Matched Contributions,
adjusted for income or loss allocated thereto as set forth in Section 4.1(b), and the
Matching Contributions that would have been allocated to such Participant s Individual
Account based upon such returned Pre-Tax Matched Contributions will, to the extent such
amounts would have otherwise been allocated to such Participant s Individual Account,
be treated as a forfeiture; 

(c) 
       
     If any such excess Annual Additions remain, and the Participant is covered by
the Plan, the excess will be used to reduce the Matching Contributions (including any
allocation of forfeitures) for such Participant in the next Limitation Year and each
succeeding Limitation Year if necessary; and 

(d) 
       
     If any such excess Annual Additions remain and the Participant is not covered
by the Plan, the excess will be held unallocated in a suspense account. The suspense
account will be used to reduce future Matching Contributions (including the allocation
of any forfeitures) for all Participants in the next Limitation Year and succeeding
Limitation Years if necessary; provided, however, that in the event of termination of
the Plan, the suspense account will revert to the Employer to the extent it may not
then be allocated to any Participant s Individual Account. 

7.3  
       
      Aggregation of Plans . For purposes of determining whether the Annual Additions under
this Plan exceed the limitations set forth in this Article VII, all defined contribution
plans of the Employer are to be treated as one defined contribution plan. In addition, all
defined contribution plans of the Employer and all Affiliated Companies will be aggregated
for this purpose. If the Annual Additions credited to a Participant s Individual Accounts
for any Limitation Year under this Plan plus the additions credited on his behalf under
other defined contribution plans required to be aggregated pursuant to this Section 7.3
would exceed the Maximum Annual Additions for such Participant for such Limitation Year, the
Annual Additions under this Plan and the additions under such other plans will be reduced to
the extent necessary to comply with this Section 7.3 and the excess, if any, will be
allocated, reallocated, or returned in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section
7.2 regarding excess Annual Additions. 

7.4  
       
      Prospective Reduction of Deferrals . If the limitations set forth in this Article VII
would not otherwise be met for any Limitation Year, the Pre-Tax Contribution elections of
affected Participants may be
reduced by the Administrator on a temporary and prospective basis in such manner as the
Administrator will determine. 

End of Article VII 

34 

ARTICLE VIII 

ADJUSTMENT OF INDIVIDUAL ACCOUNTS 

8.1  
       
      Trust Fund Valuation . The value of each Investment Fund and of the Trust Fund will be
determined by the Trustee as of the close of business on each Valuation Date, or as soon
thereafter as practicable, and will be the fair market value of all securities or other
property held in the Investment Funds, if any, plus cash and the fair market value of other
assets held by the Trust Fund, with equitable adjustments for pending trades. 

While it is contemplated that the Trust Fund will be valued by the Trustee and allocations
made only on the Valuation Date, at any time that the Plan s valuations are not performed on
a daily basis, should it be necessary to make distributions under the provisions hereof and
the Administrator, in good faith, determines that because of (a) an extraordinary change in
general economic conditions, (b) the occurrence of some casualty materially affecting the
value of the Trust Fund or a substantial part thereof, or (c) a significant fluctuation in
the value of the Trust Fund has occurred since the immediately preceding Valuation Date, the
Administrator may, in its sole discretion, to prevent the Participant or Former Participant
from receiving a substantially greater or lesser amount than what he would be entitled to,
based on current values, cause a revaluation of the Trust Fund to be made and a reallocation
of the interests therein as of the date the Participant s or Former Participant s right of
distribution becomes fixed. The Administrator s determination to make such special valuation
and the valuation of the Trust Fund as determined by the Trustee will be conclusive and
binding on all persons ever interested hereunder. 

If the Administrator in good faith determines that certain expenses of administration paid
by the Trustee during the Plan Year under consideration are not general, ordinary and usual
and should not equitably be borne by all Participants, Former Participants and
Beneficiaries, but should be borne only by one or more Participants, Former Participants or
Beneficiaries, for whom or because of whom such specific expenses were incurred, the net
earnings and adjustments in value of the Individual Accounts will be increased by the
amounts of such expenses, and the Administrator will make suitable adjustments by debiting
the particular Individual Account or Individual Accounts of such one or more Participants,
Former Participants or Beneficiaries; provided, however, that any such adjustment must be
nondiscriminatory and consistent with the provisions of section 401(a) of the Code. 

8.2  
       
      Adjustments to Participant s and Former Participant s Individual Accounts . The value of
a Participant s or Former Participant s Individual Account (including for this purpose the
separate value of the sub-accounts of a Participant s or Former Participant s Individual
Account,  i.e. , to the extent applicable, his Employee After-Tax Account, his Pre-Tax
Contribution Account(s), his Catch-Up Contribution Account(s), his Matching Contribution
Account, his QNEC Account, his Safe Harbor Match Account, his Profit Sharing Account, and
his Rollover Account, if any), held in an Investment Fund maintained hereunder will be
determined as of each Valuation Date by: 

(a) 
       
     First, allocating the Net Income or Losses, as defined in this Section 8.2, of
each Investment Fund since the preceding Valuation Date to the Participant s or
Former Participant s Individual Account in the same ratio as the value of the
Participant s or Former Participant s Individual Account in such Investment Fund (as
adjusted below), as the case may be, bears to the aggregate value of all 

35 

Individual
Accounts in such Investment Fund (as adjusted below), as the case may be. An
Individual Account will be adjusted on the Valuation Date for purposes of allocating
Net Income or Losses from fund investments by taking the value of such Individual
Account as of the prior Valuation Date and (i) adding thereto (A) all contributions
or loan repayments designated for investment in such Investment Fund which were made
with respect to the immediately prior valuation period but were received by the
Trustee after the prior Valuation Date, plus (B) any transfers from any other
Investment Fund under the Plan to the Participant s or Former Participant s
Individual Account that were made after the prior Valuation Date and were effective
as of such prior Valuation Date and (ii) deducting therefrom (A) any transfers to
any other Investment Fund or Investment Funds under the Plan from the Participant s
or Former Participant s Individual Account within this Investment Fund that were
made after the prior Valuation Date and were effective as of such prior Valuation
Date and (B) any Participant or Former Participant loans, withdrawals, or
distributions, as applicable, from the Individual Account made after, but effective
as of, the preceding Valuation Date. 

(b) 
       
     Second, crediting the contributions and loan repayments made by or on behalf of
the Participant or Former Participant with respect to the valuation period ending on
the current Valuation Date and any transfers from the other Investment Funds under the
Plan to the Participant s or Former Participant s Individual Account within this
Investment Fund made since the preceding Valuation Date. 

(c) 
       
     Last, deducting any transfers to the other Investment Funds under the Plan from
the Participant s or Former Participant s Individual Account maintained within this
Investment Fund and any loans, withdrawals and distributions from his Individual
Account maintained within this Investment Fund made since the preceding Valuation Date. 

For the purpose of this Section,  Net Income or Losses  will mean the increase or decrease
in the fair market value of the assets of the Trust or the Investment Fund, as the case may
be, (and if invested in a group insurance investment contract, such value being determined
in accordance with the terms of the contract) as of the current Valuation Date, compared to
such value which was utilized for the prior Valuation Date, less the sum of any deposits
plus the sum of any loans, withdrawals, distributions or other deductions, if any, made to
pay any expenses incurred with respect to the operations of this Investment Fund. The
initial Valuation Date for an Investment Fund will be the date the funds are first invested
in such Investment Fund. 

8.3  
       
      Statement to Participant . At least quarterly, the Administrator will advise each
Participant, Former Participant and Beneficiary for whom an Individual Account is held
hereunder of the then fair market value of such Individual Account. 

End of Article VIII 

36 

ARTICLE IX 

DISTRIBUTIONS AND WITHDRAWALS 

9.1  
       
      Vested Interest . Effective as of April 1, 2006, each Participant and Former Participant
will at all times have a fully vested interest in his entire Individual Account. Upon any
Participant s or Former Participant s attainment of his Normal Retirement Date he will
continue to have a fully vested interest in such Individual Account. On and after the
Effective Date and prior to April 1, 2006, the only portion of any Individual Account
subject to a vesting schedule were those attributable to Employer discretionary profit
sharing contributions and employer matching contributions under the Karten s Plan. The
vested interest of Participants and Former Participants who terminated employment with the
Company and all Affiliated Companies on or after the Effective Date and prior to April 1,
2006 will be determined in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Plan in effect
at that time, as reflected in the March 1, 2002 Plan document and the amendments thereto. 

(a)  
       
      Forfeiture and Return to Service Prior to Complete Distribution . If a
Participant terminated employment prior to April 1, 2006 without a fully vested
interest in his Individual Account and received a distribution of his entire vested
Individual Account balance such that the nonvested portion of his Individual Account
balance was forfeited and such Participant is reemployed by an Affiliated Company
without incurring five (5) consecutive Breaks in Service, he will have the right to
restore in full the portion of his Individual Account which was forfeited upon
repayment to the Plan of the full amount of the distribution from such Individual
Account. Such repayment must be made not later than the  earlier  of (i) the fifth
(5th) anniversary of his return to employment or (ii) the last day of the Plan Year
in which the Participant incurs five (5) consecutive Breaks in Service after the
date of his distribution. The Participant s repayment, if any, will be returned to
the account or accounts from which the distribution was made and the reinstated
forfeiture will also be allocated to such account or accounts. If the Participant
resumes active employment with an Affiliated Company and does not repay a prior
distribution prior to the time specified above, the portion of his Individual
Account which was forfeited will not be restored. If the Participant makes repayment
in accordance with this Section 9.1(a) and currently unallocated forfeitures are not
adequate to effect the restoration of forfeited amounts to his Individual Account,
the Company or the Affiliated Company will make such additional contribution to the
Plan as is necessary to restore the forfeited portion of his Individual Account. 

(b)  
       
      Application of Forfeitures . Any forfeitures in the Plan will first be used to
restore the account of a Former Participant who is entitled to restoration pursuant
to Section 9.1(a). If additional forfeitures remain after full restorations under
Section 9.1(a), then remaining forfeitures will be used to restore accounts of
Former Participants who are located under Section 9.19. If additional forfeitures
remain thereafter, the forfeitures for a Plan Year will be used to pay
administrative expenses of the Plan and then to reduce the Matching Contributions or
QNECs of any Employer. 

9.2  
       
      Entitlement to Distribution . A Participant or Former Participant will be entitled to a
distribution of his vested Individual Account upon his death, his termination of employment
due to Disability, retirement on or after Normal Retirement Date or on 

37 

account of a
severance from employment, as applicable, as defined in section 401(k)(2) of the Code. No
distribution of a Participant s Individual Account will be made after the Benefit
Commencement Date unless the Participant and his Spouse, if any, consent to such
distribution pursuant to Section 9.3. 

A Participant s Individual Account will be distributed on account of the Participant s
severance from employment as provided in this Section 9.2, unless the severance from
employment occurs as part of a business transaction involving the Employer or assets of the
Employer with respect to which the Participant is employed and the parties to the business
transaction agree that the accounts of all Participants similarly situated will be
transferred to a plan maintained by the acquiring entity or one of its affiliates. In such
case, no distribution may be made to the Participant until he becomes entitled to such a
distribution under the terms of the plan to which such account is transferred. Any
distribution under this Section 9.2 will be subject to the other provisions of the Plan
regarding distributions, other than provisions that require a separation from service before
such amounts may be distributed. 

For purposes of this Article IX, a Participant will not be deemed to have terminated
employment or incurred a severance from employment in the event of a change in his
employment status from a common law employee to a Leased Employee. However, as provided in
Section 1.21 such Participant will no longer be an Eligible Employee for purposes of making
Pre-Tax Contributions or receiving an Employer Matching Contribution. 

9.3  
       
      Timing of Distribution . A Participant who becomes entitled to a distribution of his
vested Individual Account pursuant to Section 9.2 may elect to receive such distribution as
soon as administratively practicable following such entitlement by filing an application
with the Administrator. Alternatively, he may elect to defer distribution of such vested
Individual Account until a later date; provided, however, that regardless of such an
election, distribution of the Participant s vested Individual Account will be made not later
than the Participant s Required Beginning Date. A Participant who defers the distribution of
his vested Individual Account in accordance with this Section 9.3 will continue to have the
right to direct the investment of his individual Account among the Investment Funds as
provided in Section 16.1. 

The value of a Participant s vested Individual Account under this Section 9.3 will, except
as provided in Section 9.6 (regarding minimum distributions) or Section 9.10 (regarding
automatic cashouts), be valued as of the most recent Valuation Date for which Participant
Individual Account values have been determined prior to the date the Participant s payment
is processed. 

The payment of a Participant s vested Individual Account under this Article IX is
conditioned upon the Administrator s ability to locate such Participant. In the event that
the Administrator is unable to locate such Participant within a reasonable period of time
after the date payments would otherwise commence, the provisions of Section 9.19 regarding
the conditional forfeiture of unclaimed benefits will apply. 

9.4  
       
      Qualified Election . Unless the Participant s vested Individual Account is payable in
the applicable normal form specified in Section 9.7 or the automatic cashout provisions of
Section 9.10 apply, a Participant s election pursuant to Section 9.3 to have his vested
Individual Account distributed before his Required Beginning Date will be made in the 

38 

form
of a Qualified Election, and such Qualified Election will acknowledge that benefits will be
made in accordance with such election. 

9.5  
       
      Limitations on Timing of Distributions . Irrespective of a Participant s distribution
election or lack thereof, distribution of the Participant s vested Individual Account will
be made no later than sixty (60) days after the end of the Plan Year following the  later  of: 

(a) 
       
     The  earlier  of the date the Participant attains age sixty-five (65) or his
Normal Retirement Date; 

(b) 
       
     The date of termination of the Participant s service with the Employer or an
Affiliated Company; or 

(c) 
       
     The tenth (10th) anniversary of the year in which the Participant commenced
participation in the Plan; 

provided, however, that distribution of the Participant s vested Individual Account will be
made by the Required Beginning Date. 

9.6  
       
      Minimum Distribution Requirements . To the extent required to comply with the minimum
distribution requirements of section 401(a)(9) of the Code, including the minimum
distribution and incidental benefit requirements of section 401(a)(9) of the Code and the
regulations issued thereunder which are expressly incorporated herein by this reference,
distribution of a Participant s vested Individual Account will be made or commence to be
made by his Required Beginning Date as provided in this Section 9.6. The provisions of this
Section 9.6 will override any other inconsistent distribution provisions of the Plan. 

The Plan will apply the minimum distribution requirements in accordance with the final and
temporary regulations under section 401(a)(9) of the Code that were published on April 17,
2002 (the  Final Minimum Distribution Regulations ) and all distributions required under
this Section 9.6 will be determined and made in accordance with such Final Minimum
Distribution Regulations. 

(a)  
       
      Current Minimum Distribution Payments . If minimum distribution payments have
commenced with respect to a Participant, such payments will continue to be made
regardless of whether the Participant has attained the Required Beginning Date,
provided, however, that (i) such payments may be modified to the extent necessary to
comply with the Final
Minimum Distribution Regulations or (ii) the Participant may elect to stop receiving
such payments if such minimum distribution payments had commenced prior to January
1, 1997 and the Participant is not a  five percent owner  as defined under section
416 of the Code. 

(b)  
       
      Death of Participant Before Distributions Begin . If the Participant dies before
distribution of his vested Individual Account has been made, the Participant s
entire interest will be distributed in full by December 31 of the calendar year
immediately following the calendar year in which the Participant died. Such
distribution will automatically satisfy the one (1) year rule of section
401(a)(9)(B)(iii) of the Code and Treasury Regulation sections 1.401(a)(9)-3, Q A-1
and Q A-4. 

39 

(c)  
       
      Amount of Minimum Distribution For Each Distribution Calendar Year . In the
event a Participant who is a five percent (5%) owner is required to begin receiving
minimum distribution payments while in service under the provisions of this Section
9.6, the Participant will receive one lump sum payment on or before the
Participant s Required Beginning Date equal to his entire vested Individual Account
balance and annual lump sum payments thereafter of any additional Pre-Tax
Contributions, Catch-Up Contributions or Matching Contributions made with respect to
such Participant during each subsequent calendar year. Such distributions will be
made up to and including the calendar year that includes the Participant s date of
death. Distributions made pursuant to this Section 9.6(c) will automatically satisfy
the requirements of section 1.401(a)(9)-2, Q A-2 and the minimum distribution
incidental death benefit requirement as provided in Treasury Regulation section
1.401(a)(9)-5, Q A-1(d). 

(d)  
       
      Death On or After Date Minimum Distributions Begin . If a Participant who is
receiving minimum required distributions pursuant to Section 9.6(a) (regarding
minimum distribution payments being made prior to the Effective Date) or Section
9.6(c) (regarding five percent (5%) owners) dies, then the remainder of his vested
Individual Account will be paid in the form of a lump sum payment to his Surviving
Spouse or Beneficiary in accordance with Section 10.1 as soon as administratively
practicable following the Participant s date of death, but no  later  than December 31
of the year in which the Participant died. If the Participant s Spouse is his
Beneficiary such Spouse may be eligible to elect to receive such distribution in the
form of a Direct Rollover. Such distribution will automatically satisfy the
requirement of section 401(a)(9)(B)(i) of the Code and Treasury Regulation section
1.401(a)(9)-2, Q A-5 that distributions following the Participant s death be paid to
his Beneficiary at least as rapidly as such distributions were being paid to the
Participant prior to his death. 

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article IX, all distributions from this Plan
shall be made in accordance with (i) sections 1.401(a)(9)-2 through 1.401(a)(9)-9 of the
Final Minimum Distribution Regulations, and (ii) the incidental death benefit requirement of
section 401(a)(9)(G) of the Code. Further, such Final Minimum Distribution Regulations
shall override any Plan provision that is inconsistent with section 401(a)(9) of the Code. 

9.7  
       
      Normal Form of Benefits . The vested Individual Account of a Participant will be paid in a single lump sum cash
payment; provided, however, that such Participant may elect to receive all or a portion of
such Individual Account in the form of a Direct Rollover pursuant to Section 9.9. In
addition, to the extent a Participant s vested Individual Account is invested in the Common
Stock Fund, distribution of that portion of his Individual Account may be made in shares of
Common Stock as provided in Section 9.8. 

9.8  
       
      Distributions from Common Stock Fund . Any distributions from the Common Stock Fund will
be paid at the election of the Participant, either in cash or in shares of Common Stock,
except that fractional shares will in all events be payable in cash. Any cash dividends
declared with respect to such Participant s shares prior to the date of distribution will
similarly be paid in cash. Stock dividends declared prior to the distribution to the
Participant will be treated as part of his Individual Account, subject to his election to
receive either cash or Common Stock. In the event that the Participant elects a distribution
of his balance in the Common Stock Fund in cash, the value of his Individual Account in the
Common Stock Fund will be based on the current market value of a share of Common Stock on
the date as of which the amount payable is calculated. The 

40 

Administrator s determination
with respect to such valuation will be conclusive and binding on the Participant and on the
Trustee. 

9.9  
       
      Optional Forms of Benefits . In accordance with procedures adopted by the Administrator,
a Participant may waive payment of his vested Individual Account in the form of a lump sum
and, pursuant to a Qualified Election, elect an optional form of benefit, as follows: 

(a)  
       
      Direct Rollover . To receive his vested Individual Account in the form of a
Direct Rollover to an Eligible Retirement Plan, provided that the distribution
qualifies as an Eligible Rollover Distribution. Any portion of the Participant s
distribution which does not qualify as an Eligible Rollover Distribution will be
payable to the Participant in accordance with this Section 9.9 or Section 9.7
(regarding normal forms of benefit) or Section 9.10 (regarding automatic cashouts),
as applicable. 

(i)  
       
      Form of Election . A Participant s Direct Rollover election under this
Section 9.9 will be in form, manner and time satisfactory to the
Administrator and in accordance with rules and procedures established by the
Administrator. Such election will specify the dollar or percentage amount
of the Participant s vested Individual Account to be rolled over, the name
of the Eligible Retirement Plan selected by the Participant, and such
additional information as the Administrator deems necessary or appropriate
in order to implement the election. It will be the Participant s
responsibility to confirm that the Eligible Retirement Plan designated in
his Direct Rollover election will accept the Direct Rollover of his vested
Individual Account. The Administrator will be entitled to implement a
Direct Rollover election based on its reasonable reliance on information
provided by the Participant, and will not be required to independently
verify such information, unless it is clearly unreasonable not to do so. 

(ii)  
       
      Notice of Direct Rollover Rights . The Participant will be given
written notice of any right he may have to elect a Direct Rollover of the
taxable portion of his vested Individual Account to an Eligible Retirement
Plan at least (A) thirty (30) and no more than ninety (90) days prior to the
Benefit Commencement Date; or (B) on or after the Benefit Commencement Date;
provided the Participant is given at least thirty (30) days to consider such
notice and make the election described in this Section 9.9(a). The
Participant may elect to receive a Direct Rollover before expiration of the
thirty (30) day election period described above if: (1) the Administrator
clearly informs the Participant that he has a right to a period of at least
thirty (30) days after receiving the written explanation to consider the
decision of whether or not to elect a Direct Rollover; (2) the Participant,
after receiving the notice, affirmatively elects a Direct Rollover; and (3)
the Direct Rollover is made more than seven (7) days after the notice is
given. 

(iii)  
       
      Spousal Rights . To the extent required by section 401(a)(31) of the
Code, if all or a portion of a Participant s vested Individual Account is
payable to the Participant s surviving Spouse, or to a former Spouse in
accordance with a QDRO, such surviving Spouse or former Spouse will be
entitled to elect a Direct Rollover of all or a portion of such distribution
to an Eligible Retirement Plan. 

41 

(b)  
       
      Combination . By a combination of a single lump sum cash payment and Direct
Rollover to an Eligible Retirement Plan. 

9.10  
       
      Automatic Cashouts . If the value of the Participant s vested Individual Account does
not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000), determined as of the Participant s Benefit
Commencement Date, the Administrator will direct that such Individual Account be paid in a
single lump sum cash payment as soon as practicable following such Benefit Commencement
Date, without regard to whether the Participant and/or Spouse consent either to payment in
such form or to payment prior to the Participant s attainment of the Required Beginning
Date. Alternatively, in lieu of such lump sum cash payment, the Participant may elect to
receive distribution of his vested Individual Account in the form of a Direct Rollover
pursuant to Section 9.9(a). No distribution will be made in accordance with this Section
9.10 after the Participant s Benefit Commencement Date unless the Participant and his Spouse
(or if the Participant has died, his surviving Spouse) consent in writing to such
distribution. Likewise, no distribution will be made pursuant to this Section 9.10 if the
Participant s vested Individual Account exceeds one thousand dollars ($1,000) on the Benefit
Commencement Date. 

9.11  
       
      Facility of Payment . If any payee under the Plan is a minor, or if the Administrator
reasonably believes that any payee is legally incapable of giving a valid receipt and
discharge for any payment
due him, the Administrator may have such payment, or any part of such payment, made to the
person (or persons or institution) whom it reasonably believes is caring for or supporting
such payee, unless it has received due notice of claim therefor from a duly appointed
guardian of such payee. Any such payment will be a payment for the account of such payee
and will, to the extent of such payment, be a complete discharge of any liability under the
Plan to such payee. 

9.12  
       
      Hardship Withdrawals . 

(a)  
       
      Conditions for Hardship Withdrawal . A Participant who has not separated from
service with the Employer or an Affiliated Company may make a Qualified Election to
receive a hardship withdrawal from his vested Individual Account effective as of
April 1, 2006. The withdrawal made pursuant to such Qualified Election will be made
from the sub-accounts maintained under his Individual Account in the following
order: (i) Rollover Account, (ii) Employee After-Tax Account, (iii) Employee
Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account; (iv) Employee Pre-Tax Matched Contribution
Account and (v) Catch-Up Contribution Account, subject to the following
restrictions: 

(A) 
       
     All withdrawals are subject to the Participant having filed an
application with the Administrator prior to the date on which the withdrawal is
to be made. 

(B) 
       
     All withdrawals will be in the form of a lump-sum cash payment
and will be debited from the Participant s Rollover Account, Employee After-Tax
Account, Employee Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account, Employee Pre-Tax
Matched Contribution Account or Catch-Up Contribution Account, as applicable,
as of the date the payment is made. 

(C) 
       
     A Participant may make a withdrawal only in the event that he
furnishes satisfactory evidence to the Administrator that the withdrawal is to

42 

alleviate his Financial Hardship (as defined in Section 9.12(b) and is for one
of the following reasons: 

(1) 
       
     Expenses for (or necessary to obtain) medical
care that would be deductible by Participant under section 213(d) of
the Code (determined without regard to whether the expenses exceed
seven and one-half percent (7.5%) of Participant s adjusted gross
income) for the Participant, the Participant s Spouse or the
Participant s dependents (as defined in section 152 of the Code without
regard to the change in definition of dependent under the Working
Families Tax Relief Act of 2004 ( i.e. , determined without regard to
sections 152(b)(1), 152(b)(2) and 152(d)(1)(B) of the Code) and
including a non-custodial child of divorced or legally separated
parents as described in section 152(e) of the Code; provided, however,
that any hardship withdrawal for such child will exclude amounts for
the payment of nonprescription drugs or medicine (other than insulin))
; 

(2) 
       
     Costs directly related to the purchase of a
principal residence for the Participant (excluding mortgage payments); 

(3) 
       
     Payment of tuition, related educational fees,
and room and board expenses, for the next twelve (12) months of
post-secondary education for the Participant, his Spouse, children, or
his dependents (as defined in section 152 of the Code (determined
without regard to section 152(b)(1), (b)(2), and (d)(1)(B) of the
Code)); 

(4) 
       
     Payments necessary to prevent the eviction of
the Participant from his principal residence or foreclosure on the
mortgage of the Participant s principal residence; 

(5) 
       
     Effective April 1, 2006, payments necessary to
reimburse the Participant for unreimbursed expenses related to a
federally declared natural disaster; 

(6) 
       
     Effective April 1, 2006, payments necessary to
reimburse the Participant for funeral expenses for the Participant s
deceased parent, Spouse, children or dependents (as defined in section
152 of the Code) (determined without regard to section 152(d)(1)(B) of
the Code); or 

(7) 
       
     Such other immediate and heavy financial needs
as the Administrator, or its delegate, approves from time to time based
on rulings, regulations or other guidance issued by the Internal
Revenue Service. 

(b)  
       
      Financial Hardship . As used herein, Financial Hardship will mean an immediate
and heavy financial need that, based on the facts and circumstances, cannot be met
from other resources that are reasonably available to the Participant. For this
purpose, the Participant s resources are deemed to include those assets of the
Participant s Spouse and minor children that are reasonably 

43 

available to the
Participant. A distribution will be deemed to satisfy an immediate and heavy
financial need of the Participant if the Participant represents in writing to the
Administrator that the distribution is necessary to satisfy an immediate and heavy
financial need and all of the following requirements are satisfied: 

(i) 
       
     The distribution is not in excess of the amount of the
immediate and heavy financial need of the Participant; provided, however, that
the amount of such distribution may include the amount of any federal, state or
local taxes or penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the withdrawal; 

(ii) 
       
     The Participant has obtained all distributions, other than
hardship distributions, and all nontaxable loans currently available to
Participant from commercial sources and under the Plan and all of the plans
maintained by the Employer or any other employer; 

(iii) 
       
     Such need cannot reasonably be relieved through reimbursement
or compensation by insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participant s
assets, or by cessation of Pre-Tax Contributions to the Plan. 

(iv) 
       
     The Participant is precluded from making Pre-Tax Contributions
to the Plan (and to any other qualified or non-qualified retirement plan of the
Employer or an Affiliated Company) following the hardship withdrawal for a
period of six (6) months for hardship withdrawals made before April 1, 2006,
and one hundred and eighty three (183) days effective for hardship withdrawals
made on and after April 1, 2006. 

(c)  
       
      Limitation on Amount Withdrawn . There is no minimum amount that must be
withdrawn. However, the maximum amount that may be withdrawn is the maximum
available for withdrawals under this Section 9.12(c). The amount of a hardship
withdrawal from the Participant s Pre-Tax Contribution Accounts will not include any
earnings credited to such accounts after December 31, 1988. The amount of a
hardship withdrawal from any of the Participant s Rollover Account, Employee
After-Tax Account, and Catch-Up Contribution Account will not exceed the net credit
balance in such account as of the date of the withdrawal. In the event that a
Participant has an outstanding loan from his Pre-Tax Contribution Accounts or
Catch-Up Contribution Account at the time of his withdrawal, such loan will not be
reflected in the Participant s Individual Account balance and the amount of the
withdrawal may not exceed the amount that the Participant would otherwise be
entitled to withdraw from such Account. 

(d)  
       
      Rules and Procedures . The Administrator will establish such rules and give such
directions to the Trustee as will be appropriate to effectuate the withdrawal in
accordance with the terms this Plan. 

9.13  
       
      Withdrawal of After-Tax Savings Contributions . A Participant may make a Qualified
Election to receive all or any portion of his Employee After-Tax Account at any time while
he is in the service of the Employer or an Affiliated Company. 

9.14  
       
      Withdrawal at Age 59  1  / 2  . Effective April 1, 2006, any Participant who attains the age of
fifty-nine and one-half (59  1  / 2 ) may, in accordance with such policies and procedures as the
Administrator may establish, make a Qualified Election to receive a withdrawal of all 

44 

or a
portion of the value of his vested Individual Account balance in the Plan. Such withdrawal
will be made from the sub-accounts comprising the Participant s Individual Account in the
following order: (i) Employee After-Tax Account; (ii) Rollover Account; (iii) Profit Sharing
Account; (iv) Safe Harbor Match Account; (v) Matching Contribution Account; (vi) Employee
Pre-Tax Unmatched Contribution Account; (vii) Employee Pre-Tax Matched Contribution Account;
(viii) Catch-Up Contribution Account; and (ix) QNEC Account. 

9.15  
       
      Withdrawal of Rollover Account . A Participant may make a Qualified Election to receive all or any portion of his Rollover
Account at any time while he is in the service of the Employer or an Affiliated Company. 

9.16  
       
      Qualified Hurricane Katrina Distributions . A Participant whose principal place of
abode on August 25, 2005 was located in the Hurricane Katrina disaster area and who
sustained an economic loss by reason of Hurricane Katrina may elect during the period
beginning on August 1, 2005 and ending December 31, 2006 to receive from the Plan a
 qualified Hurricane Katrina distribution  of up to one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)
in the aggregate. Such distribution will be made in the form of a lump sum from the
sub-accounts maintained under the Participant s vested Individual Account in the order
prescribed by the Administrator. The ten percent (10%) early withdrawal penalty for
distributions from qualified plans prior to age fifty nine and one-half (59  1  / 2 ) will not apply
to any qualified Hurricane Katrina distribution and the mandatory twenty percent (20%)
income tax withholding applicable to Eligible Rollover Distributions will not apply. The
Administrator is not required to allow the Participant to elect a Direct Rollover with
respect to a qualified Hurricane Katrina distribution or to provide a section 402(f) notice
with respect to any such distribution. However, a qualified Hurricane Katrina distribution
is subject to the voluntary withholding requirements of section 3405 of the Code and Treas.
Reg.   35.3405-1T. Further, a special rule allows income inclusion with respect to a
qualified Hurricane Katrina distribution to be spread over a three (3) year period. Any
such Participant who receives a qualified Hurricane Katrina distribution may elect to
recontribute all or part of such distribution to the Plan in one or more contributions over
the three (3) year period following the date on which such distribution is made as provided
in Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-92. 

In addition, a Participant or Beneficiary whose principal place of abode on August 25, 2005
was located in the Hurricane Katrina disaster area and who sustained an economic loss by
reason of Hurricane Katrina may elect to designate as a  qualified Hurricane Katrina
distribution  any distribution from the Plan that was made to such Participant or
Beneficiary during the period beginning on August 1, 2005 and ending on December 31, 2006
which does not exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) in the aggregate. Such
designation may be made with respect to any distribution that satisfies the requirements for
a qualified Hurricane Katrina distribution regardless if such distribution was made on
account of Hurricane Katrina ( e.g.  an in-service withdrawal). However, the following
distributions may not be designated as qualified Hurricane Katrina distributions: (a)
corrective distributions of excess Annual Additions under section 415 of the Code as
described in Section 7.2, (b) distributions of Excess Elective Deferrals under section
402(g) of the Code as described in Section 4.1, (c) distributions of Excess Contributions
under section 401(k) of the Code as described in Section 4.2, (d) distributions of Excess
Aggregate Contributions under section 401(m) of the Code as described in Section 5.1 and (e)
deemed distributions of outstanding Plan loans pursuant to Section 9.17. In addition, a
Participant will not be permitted to repay any designated qualified Hurricane 

45 

Katrina
distribution which is a required minimum distribution or part of a series of systematic
withdrawal payments being paid over a period of more than ten (10) years. Likewise, any
qualified Hurricane Katrina distribution made to a Beneficiary may not be recontributed to
the Plan. 

In making a qualified Hurricane Katrina distribution, the Administrator may rely on the
Participant s or Beneficiary s reasonable representations as to his principal place of
abode on August 25, 2005, and whether he suffered an economic loss, unless the Administrator
has actual knowledge to the contrary. 

9.17  
       
      Loans to Participants . The Administrator may, in its sole discretion and in accordance
with a uniform and nondiscriminatory policy established by it, permit loans to be made to a
Participant; provided that, effective April 1, 2006, no such loan may be made with respect
to amounts invested in the Common Stock Fund. Loans (a) will be made available to
Participants on a reasonably equivalent basis; (b) not be made available to Highly
Compensated Employees in an amount greater than the amount made available to other
Participants; (c) bear a reasonable rate of interest; (d) be adequately secured; and (e)
provide for periodic repayment over a reasonable period of time. In addition, when such
loans are repaid, such repayment will be allocated to the Investment Funds in accordance
with the Participant s investment elections in effect at the time of repayment. In addition,
a Participant who terminates employment with the Employer and all Affiliated Companies on or
after April 1, 2006 may elect to continue to repay an outstanding Plan loan following such
termination as provided in the written loan policy established by the Administrator. All
loans granted pursuant to this Section 9.17 will be granted in accordance with the written
loan policy to be established as set forth above (which policy, when properly adopted, is
hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this Plan). Such written loan policy,
once established, may be modified or amended in writing from time to time without the
necessity of amending this Section 9.17. The loan policy established by the Administrator
will comply with the applicable provisions of ERISA and regulations promulgated pursuant
thereto and with any limitations imposed by the Code and regulations promulgated pursuant
thereto to prevent the loan from being deemed to be a taxable distribution to the
Participant. 

9.18  
       
      Duty to Keep Administrator Informed of Distributee s Current Address . Each
Participant, Former Participant and Beneficiary must file with the Administrator from time
to time in writing his post office address and each change of post office address. Any
communication, statement or notice addressed to a Participant, Former Participant or
Beneficiary at his last post office address filed with the Administrator or, if no address
is filed with the Administrator, then at his last post office address as shown on an
Employer s records, will be binding on the Participant or Former Participant, and his
Beneficiary, for all purposes of the Plan. Neither the Administrator nor the Trustee will be
required to search for or locate a Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary. 

9.19  
       
      Failure to Claim Benefits . If the Administrator notifies the Participant, Former
Participant or Beneficiary by registered or certified mail at his last known address that he
is entitled to a distribution and also notifies him of the provisions of this Section 9.19,
and the Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary fails to claim his benefits under the
Plan or make his current address known to the Administrator within a reasonable period of
time after such notification, the Administrator will direct that all unpaid amounts which
would have been payable to such Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary will be
forfeited and applied as provided in Section 9.1(b). In the event that the Participant,
Former Participant or Beneficiary is subsequently located, the amounts which were 

46 

forfeited,
without adjustment for earnings and losses, will be restored and distributed to the
Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary. The Employer for whom the Participant
last worked will contribute an amount to the Plan which is equal to the amount distributed
under the terms of this Section 9.19 to the extent that such amount cannot be reinstated
through forfeitures. Notwithstanding the preceding sentences, if the Administrator is trying
to locate a Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary in connection with (a) a minimum
required distribution under Section 9.6, or (b) a return of Excess Elective Deferrals under
Section 4.1, Excess Contributions under Section 4.2, or Excess Aggregate Contributions under
Section 5.1, and the Administrator determines that such Participant, Former Participant or
Beneficiary cannot be located, the Administrator will establish an escrow account outside of
the Plan in the name of that Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary and direct the
Trustee to distribute such amount to that account. 

9.20  
       
      Distribution Pursuant to a QDRO . The Administrator will establish policies and
procedures for reviewing Domestic Relations Orders relating to a Participant s interest in
the Plan. The Administrator or its delegate will determine whether any such Domestic
Relations Order is a QDRO. If the provisions of a QDRO provide for an immediate distribution
to an Alternate Payee, the Administrator will direct the Trustee to commence payments to the
Alternate Payee as soon as administratively practicable, following the later of (a) the
receipt of such QDRO by the Administrator or (b) the date the Administrator receives the
Alternate Payee s written consent to such distribution. Until such time as payment is made
to an Alternate Payee pursuant to this Section 9.20, the Alternate Payee will have no rights
under the Plan other than the rights of a Beneficiary and the right to direct the investment
of amounts awarded to the Alternate Payee. If an Alternate Payee does not receive an
immediate distribution pursuant to this Section 9.20, the Administrator will direct the
Recordkeeper to identify the Alternate Payee s interest in the Trust Fund pending a
distribution to the Alternate Payee and the Alternate Payee may direct the investment of the
Alternate Payee s interest in the Trust Fund pursuant the provisions of Section 16.1. 

End of Article IX 

47 

ARTICLE X 

DISTRIBUTIONS UPON DEATH; 
DESIGNATIONS OF BENEFICIARIES 

10.1  
       
      Death Prior to Benefit Commencement Date . 

(a)  
       
      Form of Death Benefits . In the case of a Participant or Former Participant who
dies before his Benefit Commencement Date, his vested Individual Account will be
paid to his surviving Spouse or Beneficiary, as applicable, in the form of a single
lump sum cash payment or Direct Rollover, to the extent applicable and elected. 

(b)  
       
      Timing of Payment of Death Benefit . Payment of the vested Individual Account of
a Participant or Former Participant who dies before his Benefit Commencement Date
will be paid as soon as administratively practicable after the Administrator
receives the necessary documentation of the Participant s Death, but no  later  than
December 31 of the calendar year following the Participant s death. 

The payment of death benefits under this Article X is conditioned upon the
Administrator s ability to locate the appropriate person to whom such benefits
should be paid. In the event that the Administrator is unable to locate such person
within a reasonable period of time after the date such benefits would otherwise be
payable, the provisions of Section 9.19 regarding the conditional forfeiture of
unclaimed benefits will apply. 

(c)  
       
      Valuation of Death Benefits . The value of a Participant s or Former
Participant s vested Individual Account which become payable by reason of the
Participant s or Former Participant s death will be determined as of the Valuation
Date immediately preceding the date of distribution. 

(a)  
       
      Designation or Revocation . Subject to the provisions of Section 9.9 (regarding
optional forms of benefit), whenever a Participant may be permitted to designate a
Beneficiary to receive benefits under this Plan, such designation will be made,
pursuant to a Qualified Election, by the execution and delivery to the Administrator
of an instrument in a form satisfactory to the Administrator. A Participant may
designate one or more Beneficiaries and may designate primary and secondary
Beneficiaries. A Participant will have the right to change or revoke any such
Beneficiary designation by filing a new designation and notice of revocation with
the
Administrator, and, subject to the rules governing a Qualified Election and the
requirement for the consent of a Spouse to a change in a Participant s Beneficiary
designation, no notice to any Beneficiary or consent by any Beneficiary will be
required to effect any such change or revocation. 

(b)  
       
      Failure to Designate Beneficiary or Death of Beneficiary . If a deceased
Participant or Former Participant fails to properly designate a Beneficiary, or if
the Administrator receives no response from a designated Beneficiary after giving
notice to such Beneficiary by certified mail to such person at his last known
address as shown in the Plan s records (or if the certified letter is returned 

48 

to
the Administrator by the United States Postal Service as undeliverable), or if for
any reason the designations will be legally ineffective, or if all Beneficiaries
(both primary and secondary) predecease the Participant or Former Participant, any
distribution required to be made under the provisions of this Plan from the Trust
Fund will be made by payment: (i) to his Spouse, in the form of a lump sum cash
payment or Direct Rollover; or (ii) if no such Spouse survives, in a single sum cash
payment to the qualified representative of the Participant s or Former Participant s
estate; provided, however, that if no qualified representative of the deceased
Participant s or Former Participant s estate can be located within a reasonable
period of time following the Participant s or Former Participant s death, the
Administrator in its discretion may (A) make the distribution under this Section
10.2(b) to such persons who establish to the satisfaction of the Administrator that
they are heirs at law of the Participant or Former Participant, or (B) conditionally
forfeit the entire balance of the Participant s or Former Participant s Individual
Account pursuant to Section 9.19. 

(c)  
       
      Administrator s Determination Binding . The determination by the Administrator
as to which persons are entitled to payment of a Participant s or Former
Participant s interest in the Plan upon his death or the death of his Spouse or
Beneficiary, will be final and conclusive upon all persons. 

10.3  
       
      Death After Benefit Commencement Date . In the case of a Participant who dies after his
Benefit Commencement Date, no benefits will be payable except to the extent required under
the form of benefit as in effect on the date of the Participant s death. 

End of Article X 

49 

ARTICLE XI 

AMENDMENT OF PLAN 

11.1  
       
      Right to Amend . Subject to Section 11.2 and any other limitations contained in ERISA
or the Code, the Company may from time to time amend, in whole or in part, any or all of the
provisions of the Plan on behalf of the Company and all Employers. Specifically, but not by
way of limitation, the Company may make any amendment necessary to acquire and maintain a
qualified status for the Plan under the Code, whether or not retroactive. In addition,
effective April 1, 2006, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company will have the authority
to amend the Plan to comply with changes in the law, adopt changes to the Plan recommended
by the Committee, or make other changes that will not materially increase the cost of
maintaining the Plan to the Employers. 

11.2  
       
      Limitation on Amendments . No amendment of the Plan will be made that would vest in any
Employer, directly or indirectly, any interest in or control of the Trust Fund. No
amendment will be made that would vary the Plan s exclusive purpose of providing benefits to
Participants, Former Participants and their Beneficiaries and of defraying reasonable
expenses of administering the Plan or that would permit the diversion of any part of the
Trust Fund from that exclusive purpose. No amendment will be made that would reduce any
then vested interest of a Participant or Former Participant in his Individual Account. No
amendment will increase the duties or responsibilities of the Trustee unless the Trustee
consents thereto in writing. 

No amendment to the Plan will reduce or restrict, either directly or indirectly, the benefit
provided under this Plan to any Participant or Former Participant prior to the amendment.
Further, no amendment to the vesting schedule will deprive a Participant or Former
Participant of his vested interest in his Individual Account as of the date of the
amendment. Further, if the vesting schedule of this Plan is amended, or if the Plan is
amended in any way that directly or indirectly affects the computation of a Participant s or
Former Participant s vested interest, each such person with at least three (3) Years of
Service as of the last day of the election period described below may elect, within a
reasonable period after the adoption of the amendment, to have his vested interest computed
under the Plan without regard to such amendment. The period during which such election may
be made will commence with the date the amendment is adopted and will end sixty (60) days
after the  latest  of: 

(a) 
       
     the date the amendment is adopted; 

(b) 
       
     the date the amendment becomes effective; or 

(c) 
       
     the date the Participant or Former Participant is issued written notice of the
amendment by the Employer. 

End of Article XI 

50 

ARTICLE XII 

TERMINATION OF PLAN 

12.1  
       
      Right to Discontinue Contributions, Terminate, or Partially Terminate . The Company has
established the Plan with the bona fide intention and expectation that from year to year it
will be able to, and will deem it advisable to, make its contributions thereto as provided
in this Plan document. However, the Company realizes that circumstances not now foreseen,
or circumstances beyond its control, may make it either impossible or inadvisable for the
Company to continue to make such contributions to the Plan. Therefore, the Company will
have the power to discontinue contributions to the Plan, terminate the Plan, or partially
terminate the Plan at any time hereafter. Each Employer, each Participant and Former
Participant, the Administrator, the Committee, the Daily Administrator and the Trustee will
be notified of such discontinuance, termination, or partial termination. 

12.2  
       
      Procedure in the Event of Discontinuance of Contributions, Termination, or Partial
Termination . 

(a)  
       
      Permanent Discontinuance of Contributions . If the Plan is amended so as to
permanently discontinue Employer contributions, or if Employer contributions are in
fact permanently discontinued, each affected Participant will continue to be one
hundred percent (100%) vested in his Individual Account. In case of such
discontinuance, the Administrator will remain in existence and all other provisions
of the Plan that are necessary, in the opinion of the Administrator, for equitable
operation of the Plan will remain in force. 

(b)  
       
      Partial or Complete Termination . If the Plan is terminated or partially
terminated, each affected Participant will continue to be one hundred percent (100%)
vested in his Individual Account. Unless the Plan is otherwise amended prior to
dissolution of the Company, the Plan will terminate as of the date of dissolution of
the Company. 

(c)  
       
      Allocation of Contributions, Forfeitures, Income and Losses . Upon
discontinuance of contributions, termination, or partial termination, any previously
unallocated contributions, forfeitures, and net income (or net loss) will be
allocated according to the provisions of Article III. To the extent that a suspense
account is in existence pursuant to Article VII, such suspense account will be
allocated to the Individual Accounts of Participants to the extent permitted by
section 415 of the Code, with any excess remaining after such allocation being paid
to the Employer. Thereafter, the net income (or net loss) of the Trust Fund will
continue to be allocated to the Individual Accounts of the Participants until the
balances of such accounts are distributed. 

(d)  
       
      Distribution of Individual Accounts . In the case of a termination or partial
termination of the Plan, and in the absence of a Plan amendment to the contrary, the
Trustee will pay the balance of
the Individual Account of a Participant for whom the Plan is so terminated, or who
is affected by such partial termination, to such Participant, subject to the time of
payment, form of payment, and consent provisions of Article IX. 

12.3  
       
      Merger, Consolidation, or Transfer . This Plan and Trust Fund may not merge or
consolidate with, or transfer its assets or liabilities to, any other plan, unless
immediately 

51 

thereafter each Participant would, in the event such other plan terminated, be
entitled to a benefit which is equal to or greater than the benefit to which he would have
been entitled if the Plan were terminated immediately before the merger, consolidation, or
transfer. Further, no transfer of assets or liabilities will be made from this Plan to
another plan, unless such other plan will impose the same distribution restrictions on
Pre-Tax Contributions and QNECs as this Plan. 

12.4  
       
      Reversion of Contributions to Employer . Except as provided in Section 3.5 and Section
12.2 under no circumstances or conditions will the Trust Fund or any portion thereof revert
to any Employer or be used for or diverted to the benefit of anyone other than Participants,
Former Participants and Beneficiaries, it being understood that the Trust Fund will be for
the exclusive benefit of Participants, Former Participants and Beneficiaries. 

End of Article XII 

52 

ARTICLE XIII 

PLAN ADMINISTRATION 

13.1  
       
      The Administrator . The overall administration of the Plan will be the responsibility
of the Administrator who will be appointed by formal action of the Company. The Company may
appoint a Committee to serve as Administrator consisting of any number of members as
determined by the Company. The Company may remove any member of the Committee at any time
and a member may resign by written notice to the Company. Any vacancy in the membership of
the Committee will be filled by appointment of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive
Officer of the Company, but pending the filling of any such vacancy the then members of the
Committee may act hereunder as though they alone constitute the full Committee. As of the
Effective Date, the Committee has been appointed as Administrator. 

13.2  
       
      Action by Committee . The following rules apply with respect to actions of the
Committee: 

(a)  
       
      Majority . Any and all acts and decisions of the Committee will be by at least a
majority of the then members, but the Committee may delegate to any one or more of
its members the authority to sign notices or other documents on its behalf or to
perform ministerial acts for it, in which event the Trustee, the Recordkeeper and
any other person may accept such notice, document or act without question as having
been authorized by the Committee. 

(b)  
       
      Committee Procedure . The Committee may, but need not, call or hold formal
meetings and any decisions made or action taken pursuant to written approval of a
majority of the then members will be sufficient to constitute an act thereof. The
Committee will maintain adequate records of its decisions, which records will be
subject to inspection by the Company, any Employer, any Participant, Former
Participant, Beneficiary, and any other person to the extent required by law, but
only to the extent that they apply to such person. Also, the Committee may designate
one of its members as Chairman and one of its members as Secretary and may establish
policies and procedures governing it as long as the same are not inconsistent with
the terms of the Plan. 

(c)  
       
      Delegation to Committee and Company s Duty to Furnish Information . The
Committee will perform the duties and may exercise the powers and discretion given
to it in this Plan and its decisions and actions may be relied upon by all persons
affected thereby. The Trustee and the Recordkeeper may rely without question upon
any notices, directions, or other documents received from the Committee. The Company
and each Employer will furnish the Committee with all data and information available
to the Company and such Employer which the Committee may reasonably require in order
to perform its duties. The
Committee may rely without question upon any such data or information furnished by
the Company and each Employer. 

(d)  
       
      Limitation on Committee Action . A member of the Committee may not vote or
decide upon any matter relating solely to himself or vote in any case in which his
individual right or claim to any benefit under the Plan is particularly involved.
In any case in which any Committee member is so disqualified to act, the remaining 

53 

members will exercise all of the powers of a qualified member concerning the matter
in which the disqualified member is not qualified to act. 

(e)  
       
      Construction of Plan and Trustee s and Recordkeeper s Reliance . Any and all
matters involving the Plan, including but not limited to any and all disputes which
may arise involving Participants, Former Participants, and Beneficiaries and/or the
Trustee or the Recordkeeper will be referred to the Committee. The Committee has the
exclusive discretionary authority to construe the terms of the Plan and the
exclusive discretionary authority to determine eligibility for all benefits
hereunder. Any such determinations or interpretations of the Plan adopted by the
Committee will be final and conclusive and will bind all parties. The Trustee and
the Recordkeeper may rely upon the decision of the Committee with respect to any
question concerning the meaning, interpretation, or application of any provision of
the Plan. 

13.3  
       
      Rules and Regulations of Administrator . The Administrator will have the authority to
make such rules and regulations and to take such action as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions of the Plan and will, subject to the provisions of the Plan, decide any questions
arising in the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan, which decisions
will be conclusive and binding on all parties. The Administrator may allocate or delegate
any part of its authority and duties as it deems expedient. 

13.4  
       
      Powers of Administrator . In order to effectuate the purposes of the Plan, the
Administrator will have the following powers: 

(a) 
       
     To appoint the Daily Administrator; 

(b) 
       
     To determine all questions with regard to rights of Eligible Employees,
Employees, Participants, Former Participants and Beneficiaries under the Plan
including, but not limited to, questions involving eligibility of an Employee to
participate in the Plan and the value of a Participant s or Former Participant s vested
Individual Account; 

(c) 
       
     To make all determinations and computations concerning the benefits, credits
and debits to which any Participant, Former Participant or other Beneficiary, is
entitled under the Plan; 

(d) 
       
     To review and render decisions respecting a denial of a claim for benefits
under the Plan; 

(e) 
       
     To construe the Plan and to make equitable adjustments for any mistakes or
errors made in the administration of the Plan; 

(f) 
       
     To receive from the Employer and from Employees such information as is
necessary for the proper administration of the Plan; 

(g) 
       
     To receive and review reports from the Trustee of the financial condition and
receipts of and disbursements from the Trust Fund; 

(h) 
       
     To determine and resolve in its sole and absolute discretion all questions
relating to the administration of the Plan and Trust Fund (i) when differences of
opinion arise between the Employer, the Daily Administrator, the Trustee, a
Participant, 

54 

or any of them, and (ii) whenever it is deemed advisable to determine such
questions in order to promote the uniform and nondiscriminatory administration of the
Plan for the greatest benefit of all parties concerned; 

(i) 
       
     To select the Investment Funds under the Plan; 

(j) 
       
     To direct the Trustee as to the investment of any Participant s Individual
Account and the crediting and distribution of the Trust Fund, as more specifically
provided in this Plan and the Trust Agreement; 

(k) 
       
     To give the Trustee specific directions in writing with respect to: 

(i) 
       
     the making of distribution payments, giving the names of the
payees, the amounts to be paid and the time or times when payments will be
made; and 

(ii) 
       
     the making of any other payments which the Trustee is not by
the terms of the Trust Agreement authorized to make without a direction in
writing by the Administrator; 

(l) 
       
     To comply (or transfer responsibility for compliance to the Trustee) with all
applicable Federal income tax withholding requirements for benefit distributions; 

(m) 
       
     To appoint, in its discretion, in accordance with the provisions of the Trust
Agreement, one or more Investment Managers (as defined under section 3(38) of ERISA) to
manage, including the power to acquire or dispose of, all or any portion of the assets
of the Plan and Trust Fund; 

(n) 
       
     To engage the service of counsel (who may, if appropriate, be counsel for the
Employer), actuaries, and agents whom it may deem advisable to assist it with the
performance of its duties; and 

(o) 
       
     To amend the Plan pursuant to Section 11.1. 

The foregoing list of express powers is not intended to be either complete or conclusive,
and the Administrator will, in addition, have such powers as it may reasonably determine
to be necessary or appropriate in the performance of its powers and duties under the Plan. 

13.5  
       
      Appointment of Daily Administrator . The Administrator will appoint the Daily
Administrator who will serve in a ministerial capacity with respect to the daily operation
of the Plan. The Administrator may remove the Daily Administrator with or without cause at
any time. The Daily Administrator may resign upon written notice to the Administrator. As
of the Effective Date, the Administrator has appointed the Employee Benefits Department of
the Company as the Daily Administrator. 

13.6  
       
      Duties of Daily Administrator . The Daily Administrator will have the following duties: 

(a) 
       
     To carry out the administration of the Plan in accordance with the provisions
herein set forth; 

55 

(b) 
       
     To adopt rules of procedure and regulations necessary for the administration of
the Plan, provided such rules are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan; 

(c) 
       
     To enforce the terms of the Plan and any rules and regulations adopted by the
Plan Administrator; 

(d) 
       
     To furnish the Employer with information which the Employer may require for tax
or other purposes; 

(e) 
       
     To establish and maintain, or cause to be maintained, the Individual Accounts
described in Article  

(f) 
       
     To prescribe procedures to be followed by distributees in obtaining benefits; 

(g) 
       
     To create and maintain such records and forms as are required for the efficient
administration of the Plan; 

(h) 
       
     To prepare, or cause to be prepared, an annual report for the Employer, as of
the last day of each Plan Year, in such form as may be required by the Employer; 

(i) 
       
     To determine and maintain records of the age and amount of Compensation, Hours
of Service, Years of Service of each Employee; 

(j) 
       
     To comply with all applicable lawful reporting and disclosure requirements of
ERISA; and 

(k) 
       
     To construe the Plan, in its sole and absolute discretion, and make equitable
adjustments for any mistakes and errors made in the administration of the Plan. 

The foregoing list of express duties is not intended to be either complete or conclusive,
and the Daily Administrator will, in addition, exercise such other powers and perform such
other duties as it may deem necessary, desirable, advisable or proper for the supervision
and administration of the Plan. 

13.7  
       
      Indemnification of the Administrator and Daily Administrator . To the extent not
covered by insurance, or if there is a failure to provide full insurance coverage for any
reason, and to the extent permissible under corporate by-laws and other applicable laws and
regulations, the Company hereby indemnifies and agrees to defend and hold harmless the
Administrator, each member of the Committee, and the Daily Administrator, and their
respective successors, assigns, heirs, legatees, and beneficiaries, as the case may be,
against any and all loss, cost liability claims, and causes of action by or on behalf of any
and all parties whomsoever, and all losses therefrom, including, without limitation, costs
of defense and attorneys  fees, based upon or arising out of any act or omission relating to
or in connection with the Plan and Trust Agreement other than losses resulting from any such
person s fraud or willful misconduct. 

13.8  
       
      Plan Fiduciaries . 

(a)  
       
      Named Fiduciary . The Trustee is the named fiduciary hereunder with respect to
the powers, duties and responsibilities of investment of the Trust Fund and the
Administrator is the named fiduciary hereunder with respect to the powers, duties

56 

and responsibilities of the administration of the Plan. Certain powers, duties and
responsibilities of each of said named fiduciaries are specifically delegated to
others under the provisions of the Plan and Trust Agreement and other powers, duties
and responsibilities of any fiduciaries may be delegated by written agreement to
others to the extent permitted under the provisions of the Plan and Trust Agreement. 

(b)  
       
      Scope of Fiduciary Responsibility . The powers and duties of each fiduciary
hereunder, whether or not a named fiduciary, will be limited to those specifically
delegated to each of them under the terms of the Plan and Trust Agreement. It is
intended that the provisions of the Plan and Trust Agreement allocate to each
fiduciary the individual responsibilities for the prudent execution of the functions
assigned to each fiduciary. None of the allocated responsibilities or any other
responsibilities will be shared by two or more fiduciaries unless such sharing will
be provided by a specific provision in the Plan or the Trust Agreement. Whenever
one fiduciary is required by the Plan or the Trust Agreement to follow the
directions of another fiduciary, the two fiduciaries will not be deemed to have been
assigned a share of any responsibility, but the responsibility of the fiduciary
giving the directions will be deemed to be his sole responsibility and the
responsibility of the fiduciary receiving those directions will be to follow same
insofar as such instructions on their face are proper under applicable law. Any
fiduciary may employ one or more persons to render advice with respect to any
responsibility such fiduciary has under the Plan or Trust Agreement. 

(c)  
       
      Multiple Capacity of Fiduciaries . Each fiduciary may, but need not, be a
director, officer or employee of the Employer. Nothing in the Plan will be
construed to prohibit any fiduciary from; 

(i) 
       
     Serving in more than one fiduciary capacity with respect to the
Plan and Trust Agreement; 

(ii) 
       
     Receiving any benefit to which he may be entitled as a
Participant or Beneficiary in the Plan, so long as the benefit is computed and
paid on a basis which is consistent with the terms of the Plan as applied to
all other Participants, Former Participants and Beneficiaries; or 

(iii) 
       
     Receiving any reasonable compensation for services rendered,
or for the reimbursement of expenses properly and actually incurred in the
performance of his duties with respect to the Plan, except that no person so
serving who already receives full-time pay from the Employer will receive
compensation from the Plan, except for reimbursement of expenses properly and
actually incurred. 

(d)  
       
      Bonding of Fiduciaries . Each fiduciary will be bonded as required by applicable
law or statute of the United States, or of any state having appropriate
jurisdiction, unless such bond may under such law or statute be waived by the
parties to the Trust Agreement. The Employer will pay the cost of bonding any
fiduciary who is an employee of the Employer. 

13.9  
       
      Action Taken in Good Faith . To the extent permitted by ERISA, the members of the
Committee and each employee, officer and director of an Affiliated Company who are
fiduciaries with respect to the Plan will be entitled to rely on, and be fully protected
with 

57 

respect to any action taken or suffered by them in good faith in reliance on, all
tables, valuations, certificates, reports and opinions furnished by the Recordkeeper, the
Trustee, or any accountant, attorney, insurance company, investment manager or other advisor
acting at any time hereunder. 

13.10  
       
      Expenses of Administration . Except to the extent paid by an Employer, the
Administrator will cause the Trustee to pay all expenses incurred in the administration of
the Plan, including expenses of the Committee, the Recordkeeper and the Administrator, and
expenses and compensation of the Trustee and the expenses of counsel. 

13.11  
       
      Claims Procedure . For purposes of this Section 13.11, a reference to the claimant
includes the Participant, Former Participant, Spouse, Alternate Payee or Beneficiary, as
applicable, and the authorized representative of any such person. 

(a)  
       
      Filing of Claim . A claimant who feels he is being denied any benefit or right
provided under the Plan must file a claim with the Administrator or its designee.
All such claims must be submitted in the form and manner specified by the
Administrator and will be considered filed on the date the claim is received by the
Administrator. 

(b)  
       
      Notice of Disposition of Claim . Upon the receipt of such a claim and in the
event the claim is denied, the Administrator will, within a reasonable period of
time, provide such claimant a written statement which will be delivered or mailed to
the claimant by certified or registered mail to his last known address, which
statement will contain the following: 

(i) 
       
     The specific reason or reasons for the denial of benefits; 

(ii) 
       
     A specific reference to the pertinent provisions of the Plan
upon which the denial is based; 

(iii) 
       
     A description of any additional material or information which
is necessary for the claimant to perfect his claim and an explanation of why
such material or information is necessary; and 

(iv) 
       
     An explanation of the Plan s claim review procedure and the
time limits applicable to such procedure, including the claimant s right to
file a suit under section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse benefit
determination on review as provided below; 

provided, however, in the event that special circumstances require an extension of
time for processing the claim, the Administrator will provide such claimant with
such written statement described above not later than one hundred eighty (180) days
after receipt of the claimant s claim, but, in such event, the Daily Administrator,
or its delegate, will furnish the claimant, within ninety (90) days after its
receipt of such claim, written notification of the extension explaining the
circumstances requiring such extension and the date that it is anticipated that such
written statement will be furnished. 

(c)  
       
      Request for Review . Within ninety (90) days after receipt of a notice of a
denial of benefits as provided above, the claimant may file a written request with
the Committee for a review of his claim. In conducting its review, the Committee
will 

58 

consider any written statement or other evidence presented by the claimant in
support of his claim. The Committee will give the claimant upon request, and free
of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all pertinent documents necessary for
the preparation of his claim. 

(d)  
       
      Decision on Review . After receipt by the Committee of a written application for
review of his claim, the Committee will review the claim taking into account all
comments, documents, records and other information submitted by the claimant
regarding the claim without regard to whether such information was considered in the
initial benefit determination. The Committee will notify the claimant of its
decision by delivery or by certified or registered mail to his last known address. 

Such decision will be made no later than the date of the meeting of the Committee
which immediately follows the Administrator s receipt of the request
for review, unless the request for review was received by the Committee within
thirty (30) days before such meeting, in which case a decision will be made by no
later than the second meeting of the Committee following the Committee s receipt of
the request for review. If special circumstances require a further extension of
time for processing such request for review, a decision will be made not later than
the third meeting of the Committee following the Committee s receipt of the request
for review and the claimant will be advised in advance of the need for the
extension. The decision of the Committee will be provided to the claimant as soon
as possible but no later than five (5) days after the benefit determination is made. 

The decision of the Committee will be in writing and will include the specific
reasons for the decision presented in a manner calculated to be understood by the
claimant and will contain references to all relevant Plan provisions on which the
decision was based. Such decision will also advise the claimant that he may receive
upon request, and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents,
records and other information relevant to his claim and will inform the claimant of
his right to file an action under section 502(a) of ERISA in the case of an adverse
decision regarding his appeal. The decision of the Committee will be final and
conclusive. 

End of Article XIII 

59 

ARTICLE XIV 

ADOPTION BY AFFILIATED COMPANIES 

14.1  
       
      Adoption by and Designation of Other Employers . 

(a)  
       
      Adoption by or Designation of Participating Employers . With the permission of
the Company, as evidenced by a resolution of the board of directors of the Company,
any Affiliated Company may become an Employer by either (i) commencing Pre-Tax
Contributions on behalf of its Eligible Employees or (ii) delivering a written
instrument to the Administrator specifying its intent to participate in the Plan and
the effective date of such participation. Such written instrument may, but need
not, also supply specific provisions relating to the operation of the Plan that will
apply to the designated Employer only and that will become, as to such designated
Employer and its Eligible Employees, a part of the Plan and the Trust Agreement. 

(b)  
       
      Consent of Designation . Each Affiliated Company that becomes an Employer will
be conclusively presumed to agree to be bound by the terms of the Plan and any and
all amendments thereto upon (i) its submission of information to the Administrator
required by the terms of or with respect to the Plan, (ii) making a contribution to
the Trust Fund pursuant to the terms of the Plan, or (iii) adopting a resolution of
its board of directors or other appropriate written authorization; provided,
however, that the terms of the Plan may be modified so as to increase the
obligations of an Employer only with the consent of such Employer, which consent
will be conclusively presumed to have been given by such Employer upon the
occurrence of an event described in (i) or (ii) above, following notice of such
modification. 

(c)  
       
      Effect of Adoption by Employer . Any entity or organization that adopts the Plan
will be deemed to be an Employer for all purposes under the Plan unless otherwise
specified in a written instrument adopted by the Company or such Employer. In
addition, such written instrument may provide, in the discretion of the Company or
such Employer, that the Eligible Employees of such Employer will receive credit for
their employment with such entity or organization prior to the date it became an
Employer for purposes of determining the eligibility of such Employees to
participate in the Plan and/or the vested and nonforfeitable interest of such
Employees as Participants. 

(d)  
       
      Application of Plan to Each Employer . Except as otherwise provided in an
Appendix attached hereto, the provisions of the Plan will apply separately and
equally to each Employer and its Employees in the same manner as is expressly
provided with respect to the Company and its Employees; provided, however, that the
power to appoint or otherwise affect the Administrator, the Committee, the Daily
Administrator or the Trustee and the power to amend or terminate the Plan will be
exercised by the Company alone. 

(e)  
       
      Transfer Among Employers . A Participant s transfer of employment among
Employers will not be considered a termination of employment under this Plan, and
his service with one will be considered as service with all others. 

(f)  
       
      Termination of Participation . Any Employer may, by appropriate action of its
board of directors or noncorporate counterpart that is communicated in writing to

60 

the Company and to the Administrator, terminate its participation in the Plan and
the Trust. The Company may, in its discretion, terminate an Employer s Plan and
Trust participation at any time by written instrument delivered to the Administrator
and the designated Employer. 

14.2  
       
      Single Plan . The Plan is a single plan with respect to all Employers, except to the
extent required by section 413 of the Code and unless the Company specifically provides that
the Plan will be a separate plan with respect to the Company and each Employer. The
contributions of any Employer that is a member of a group of employers with respect to which
the Plan represents a single plan will be available for allocation on behalf of any
Participants who are Employees of any other Employers that are members of such group but
will not be available for allocation on behalf of any Participants who are Employees of any
Employer that is not a member of such group. Conversely, the contributions of any Employer
with respect to which the Plan represents a separate plan for only that Employer will be
available for allocation on behalf of Participants who are its Employees but will not be
available for allocation on behalf of Participants who are Employees of any other Employers.
Likewise, contributions under each such plan will be tested separately pursuant to sections
401(k), 401(m), and 415 of the Code, and the minimum participation requirements of section
410(b) of the Code will be applied separately with respect to each such plan. However,
service with all Employers will count for eligibility and vesting purposes under the Plan
and a transfer between Employers will not be treated as a separation from service for
distribution purposes under the Plan. 

End of Article XIV 

61 

ARTICLE XV 

THE TRUSTEE 

15.1  
       
      Trust Fund . A Trust Fund has been created and will be maintained for the purposes of
the Plan, and the monies thereof will be invested in accordance with the terms of the Trust
Agreement which forms a part of the Plan. All Pre-Tax Contributions, Matching
Contributions, Catch-Up Contributions, QNECs and Rollover Contributions will be paid into
the Trust Fund, and all benefits under the Plan will be paid from the Trust Fund. 

15.2  
       
      Trustee s Duties . Except as otherwise specifically provided in the Trust Agreement,
the Trustee s obligations, duties and responsibilities are governed solely by the terms of
the Trust Agreement, reference to which is hereby made for all purposes. 

15.3  
       
      Benefits Only from Trust Fund . Any person having any claim under the Plan will look
solely to the assets of the Trust Fund for satisfaction. In no event will the Company, any
other Employer or any of their respective officers, Employees, agents, members of the board
of directors, the Trustee, any successor trustee, the Administrator, the Daily
Administrator, the Recordkeeper or any member of the Committee, be liable in their
individual capacities to any person whomsoever, under the provisions of the Plan or Trust
Agreement, absent a breach of fiduciary responsibility determined pursuant to the applicable
provisions of ERISA. 

15.4  
       
      Trust Fund Applicable Only to Payment of Benefits . The Trust Fund will be used and
applied only in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, to provide the benefits thereof,
except as provided in Section 13.10 regarding payment of administrative expenses, and no
part of the corpus or income of the Trust Fund will be used for, or diverted to, purposes
other than for the exclusive benefit of Participants and other persons thereunder entitled
to benefits. 

15.5  
       
      Appointment of Investment Advisor . The Administrator may appoint an investment advisor
as permitted by Section 402(c)(3) of ERISA to direct the Trustee with regard to the
investment of the assets held under the Plan. For purposes of this Section 15.5,  investment
advisor  will mean a fiduciary of the Plan who (a) is registered as an investment advisor
under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, (b) is a bank, as defined in the Investment
Advisors Act of 1940, or (c) is an insurance company qualified under the laws of more than
one state to manage, acquire, or dispose of any asset of the Plan. If such an investment
advisor be so appointed, the Trustee will invest the assets held under the Plan in
accordance with the written directions received from such investment advisor. The Trustee
will not be obligated to accept direction from the investment advisor until such investment
advisor acknowledges in writing that it is a fiduciary of the Plan. 

62 

15.6  
       
      Administrator s Duty to Trustee . The Administrator will notify the Trustee at the
appropriate time of all facts which may be necessary hereunder for the proper allocation of
increases, decreases, expenses, and contributions for Participants, the proper payment or
distribution of benefits, or the proper performance of any other act required of the Trustee
hereunder. The Administrator will notify the Trustee of such facts as are needed by the
Trustee to perform its functions under the Plan. The Administrator will secure appropriate
elections, directions, and designations for Participants, Former Participants and
Beneficiaries provided for in the Plan. 

End of Article XV 

63 

ARTICLE XVI 

PARTICIPANT INVESTMENT OPTIONS 

16.1  
       
      Investments of Contributions . Contributions by and on behalf of a Participant will be
invested in accordance with the Participant s investment designations in one or more
Investment Funds established from time to time for this purpose. The Administrator, in its
sole discretion, without the necessity of Plan amendment, may authorize the Trustee to
include additional Investment Funds or may direct the Trustee to change to different
Investment Funds or fund managers among which the Participants may elect to have their
Individual Account invested. A separate sub-account will be established and maintained
under each Participant s Individual Account to reflect the portion of such account which is
invested in each Investment Fund. Each sub-account represents a separate Investment Fund. 

16.2  
       
      Participant Direction of Investment . The Plan is intended to comply with the
requirements of section 404(c) of ERISA and will be operated in accordance with such
requirements. The Administrator will establish rules that operate in a nondiscriminatory
manner which will provide each Participant with the right to direct the investment of
amounts credited to his Individual Account. 

(a)  
       
      Nature of Election . A separate election may be made by each Participant or, as
applicable, Former Participant with respect to the investment of (i) future
contributions, and (ii) existing Individual Account balances. A Participant s
election as to future contributions will be applied to all future contributions made
by or on behalf of the Participant, regardless of any change that occurs in the
amount of such contributions. A Participant s or Former Participant s election as
to existing Individual Account balances will be applied to his entire Individual
Account under the Plan. 

(b)  
       
      Rules Regarding Elections . The Administrator may from time to time establish
rules regarding the manner in which elections by a Participant or Former
Participant, as the case may be, as to the investment of future contributions or
existing account balances, or both, may be made. Such rules may include, without
limitation, rules pertaining to the use of Interactive Electronic Communications.
To the extent deemed appropriate by the Administrator, special rules may be
established in the event of the introduction of new Investment Funds or the
substitution of one or more Investment Funds for one or more other Investment Funds,
in order to facilitate and promote an orderly transition. Participants will have
the right to direct the investment, in whole percentage increments from one percent
(1%) to one hundred percent (100%), of their Pre-Tax Unmatched Contributions,
Pre-Tax Matched Contributions, Catch-Up Contributions, Matching Contributions, and,
if applicable, any QNECs, or Rollover Contributions credited to the Plan on their
behalf among the Investment Funds as of each calendar quarter; provided, however,
that not more than twenty-five percent (25%) of such contributions may
be invested in the Common Stock Fund. Similarly, Participants or Former
Participants may elect to direct the investment of their Individual Account balances
provided that no more than twenty-five percent (25%) of such Individual Account
balances may be invested in the Common Stock Fund. 

64 

(c)  
       
      Investment of Matching Contributions . Matching Contributions may be made in
cash or in Common Stock as elected by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
Matching Contributions made in Common Stock will be invested in the Common Stock
Fund until otherwise directed by the Participant after the Matching Contribution is
made. If Matching Contributions are made in Common Stock and the Participant directs
that his Matching Contribution Account be invested in an Investment Fund or
Investment Funds other than the Common Stock Fund, the Trustee will transfer the
Participant s Matching Contribution Account from the Common Stock Fund as soon as
administratively feasible after each Matching Contribution is made. Earnings from
the Common Stock Fund will be used to purchase Common Stock at prevailing market
prices directly from the Company, on the open market, or in privately negotiated
transactions. The Trustee will not pay any commissions in connection with the
acquisition of Common Stock if such payment would cause the acquisition to be a
prohibited transaction under ERISA. Funds in the Common Stock Fund will not be
commingled with funds in other Investment Funds. Matching Contributions made in
cash will be invested in the Investment Fund options selected by the Participant in
the same percentages as the investment direction in effect for the Participant s
Pre-Tax Contributions, or in the default Investment Fund or Investment Funds
selected by the Administrator pursuant to Section 16.2(d), if the Participant has
not made an investment election. 

(d)  
       
      Default Investment Fund . In accordance with rules which the Administrator may
adopt, in the case of any Participant who fails to elect one of the permitted
Investment Funds under the Plan, the Administrator will invest all amounts for which
no such fund has been elected and the Participant will be advised of the selected
Investment Funds. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Section 16.2(d),
an investment election, once implemented pursuant to the Participant s election or
by default in accordance with the preceding sentence, will be deemed to be a
continuing election until changed by the Participant in accordance with this Plan,
and the Administrator will have no obligation to remind any Participant regarding
the opportunity to change any investment election in effect, nor will the
Administrator have any responsibility to evaluate the suitability of any investment
election to the individual circumstance of any Participant. 

(e)  
       
      Refusal to Implement Participant Directions . The Administrator may decline to
implement any Participant investment directions, or changes in investment
directions, to the extent such directions, if implemented: 

(i) 
       
     Would not be in accordance with the terms of the Plan to the
extent such terms are consistent with the provisions of Title I of ERISA; 

(ii) 
       
     Would cause the Administrator to maintain the indicia of
ownership of any Plan assets outside the jurisdiction of the district courts of
the United States, other than as permitted by section 404(b) of ERISA and DOL
Reg.   2550.404(b)-1; 

(iii) 
       
     Would result in taxable income to the Plan or jeopardize the
Plan s tax qualified status under the Code; 

(iv) 
       
     Could result in a loss in excess of the balance of the
Participant s Individual Account; or 

65 

(v) 
       
     Would result in a prohibited transaction under section 406 of
ERISA or section 4975 of the Code. 

The Administrator or the Recordkeeper will provide Participants with such
information required by rules and regulations promulgated by the Department of Labor
under section 404(c) of ERISA in the manner and at the time prescribed therein. 

(f)  
       
      Valuation of Investment Funds . The value of the assets held in the Trust Fund
in each of the Investment Funds as of each Valuation Date will be determined on the
basis of the fair market value of the assets of such fund as of such Valuation Date
as appraised by the Trustee plus or minus accruals and other appropriate accounting
adjustments. Each such Investment Fund will be segregated from and completely
independent of the other Investment Funds and the valuation procedures described in
Section 8.1 will apply separately with respect to each such fund. 

(g)  
       
      Administrative Mistake . If a Participant s change in investment directive or
election for redistribution of investments is inadvertently overlooked and discovery
of such oversight is made within forty-five (45) days after the date the Participant
receives confirmation of such investment election, the change or redistribution will
be made as soon as administratively feasible and the Participant s Individual
Account will be retroactively changed or redistributed and treated in the same
manner as though his directive to change or redistribute had not been overlooked.
If discovery of such oversight is made more than forty-five (45) days after the date
the Participant receives confirmation of such investment election, no retroactive
correction will be made in the Participant s Individual Account. 

16.3  
       
      Investments in Individual Loans to Participants . Subject to the provisions of Section
9.17, the Trust Fund may be invested in individual loans to the Participants. A separate
sub-account will be established and maintained under each applicable Participant s
individual Account to reflect his interest in the Trust Fund that is invested in an
individual loan. 

16.4  
       
      Voting Rights . The Trustee will exercise all voting rights pertaining to each
Participant s pro rata share of Common Stock held in the Common Stock Fund in accordance
with the terms of the Trust Agreement. 

End of Article XVI 

66 

ARTICLE XVII 

TOP HEAVY PROVISIONS 

17.1  
       
      Applicability . The provisions of this Article XVII will apply in the unlikely event
that the Plan is determined to be a Top-Heavy Plan for the Plan Year under the rules of
Section 17.3. Further, except as is expressly provided to the contrary, the rules of this
Article XVII will be applied after the application of the Affiliated Company rules of
Section 1.2. As of the Effective Date, the Plan is the only qualified retirement plan
maintained by the Company and the Affiliated Companies. Accordingly, the top heavy rules of
section 416 of the Code as described in this Article XVII are limited to the Plan. In the
event that the Company or an Affiliated Company adopts another qualified retirement plan,
this Article XVII will be updated accordingly. 

(a)  
       
      Five Percent Owner  means any person who owns (or is considered as owning within
the meaning of section 318 of the Code) more than five percent (5%) of the
outstanding stock of an Employer or Affiliated Company or stock possessing more than
five percent (5%) of the total combined voting power of all stock of an Employer or
Affiliated Company. The rules of sections 414(b), (c) and (m) of the Code will not
apply for purposes of applying these ownership rules. Thus, this ownership test
will be applied separately with respect to each Affiliated Company. 

(b)  
       
      Key Employee  means any Employee or former Employee (including any deceased
Employee) who at any time during the Plan Year was: 

(i) 
       
     An officer of an Employer having 415 Compensation (as defined
in Section 7.1) greater than one hundred thirty thousand dollars ($130,000) (as
adjusted under section 416(i)(1) of the Code for Plan Years beginning after
December 31, 2002); 

(ii) 
       
     A Five Percent Owner of the Employer; or 

(iii) 
       
     A One Percent Owner of the Employer having 415 Compensation
(as defined in Section 7.1) of more than one hundred fifty thousand dollars
($150,000). 

The determination of who is a Key Employee will be made in accordance with section
416(i)(1) of the Code and other guidance of general applicability issued thereunder. 

(c)  
       
      Non-Key Employee  means any Employee or Beneficiary who is not a Key Employee. 

(d)  
       
      One Percent Owner  any person who would be described in Section 17.2(a) if  one percent
(1%)  were substituted for  five percent (5%)  each place where it appears therein. 

(a)  
       
      Top-Heavy Plan Defined . The Plan will be a  Top-Heavy Plan  with respect to any
Plan Year if, as of the last day of the Plan Year the aggregate of the Individual
Accounts of Key Employees under the Plan exceeds sixty percent  

67 

(60%) of the present value of the aggregate of the Individual Accounts of all Employees under the Plan.
For purposes of making this determination, the present value of Individual Accounts
will be determined as of the most recent valuation date that falls within a twelve
(12) month period ending on the last day of the Plan Year. 

(b)  
       
      Treatment of Non-Key Employee . If any individual is a Non-Key Employee with
respect to the Plan for any Plan Year, but the individual was a Key Employee with
respect to the Plan for any prior Plan Year, the Individual Account of the
individual will not be taken into account for purposes of this Section 17.3. 

(c)  
       
      Treatment of Persons Not Performing Services . If any individual has not
performed any services for the Employer at any time during the one (1) year period
ending on the last day of the Plan Year, the Individual Account of the individual
will not be taken into account for purposes of this Section 17.3. 

17.4  
       
      Minimum Contributions . For each Plan Year in which the Plan is a Top-Heavy Plan, the
minimum contributions for that Plan Year will be determined in accordance with the rules of
this Section 17.4. 

(a)  
       
      General Rule . Except as provided below, the minimum Employer contribution
(excluding Pre-Tax Contributions for each Non-Key Employee who satisfies the
requirements of Article III to be a Participant in the Plan (including but not
limited to the age and service requirements of Article III, but without regard to
any requirements (i) that a Participant complete a minimum number of Hours of
Service in order to share in an allocation of Matching Contributions for a year,
(ii) that a Participant make contributions to the Plan, or (iii) relating to the
Non-Key Employee s level of Compensation)) will be not less than three percent (3%)
of his 415 Compensation (as defined in Section 7.1). Matching Contributions under
the Plan will be taken into account for purposes of satisfying the minimum
contribution requirements of section 416(c)(2) of the Code and this Section 17.4.
Such Matching Contributions will be treated as matching contributions for purposes
of the actual contribution percentage test and other requirements under section
401(m) of the Code. 

(b)  
       
      Adjustment of Contribution . Subject to the following rules of this Section 17.4(b), the percentage set forth
in Section 17.4(a) above will not be required to exceed the percentage at which
contributions (including Pre-Tax Contributions and Matching Contributions under this
Plan) are made (or are required to be made) under the Plan for the Plan Year for the
Key Employee for whom the percentage is the highest for such Plan Year. This
determination will be made by dividing the contributions for each Key Employee by
his 415 Compensation (as defined in Section 7.1) for the Plan Year. 

(c)  
       
      Limitation . The requirements of this Section 17.4 must be satisfied without
taking into account contributions under chapters 2 or 21 of the Code, Title Il of
the Social Security Act, or any other federal or state law. 

End of Article XVII 

68 

ARTICLE XVIII 

MISCELLANEOUS 

18.1  
       
      No Employment or Compensation Agreement . Nothing contained in the Plan will be
construed as giving any person or entity any legal or equitable right against the Company,
any other Employer, any Affiliated Company, their respective stockholders or partners,
officers or directors, the Administrator, the Daily Administrator, the Committee, the
Trustee or the Recordkeeper, except as the same will be specifically provided in the Plan.
Nor will anything in the Plan give any Participant or other Employee the right to be
retained in the service of an Employer. The employment of all persons by an Employer will
remain subject to termination by such Employer to the same extent as if the Plan had never
been executed. 

18.2  
       
      Spendthrift Provision . Except as provided by the terms of Domestic Relations Order
which is determined to be qualified under section 414(p) of the Code, no Participant, Former
Participant, or Beneficiary will have the right to assign or transfer his interest
hereunder, nor will his interest be subject to claims of his creditors or others, it being
understood that all provisions of the Plan will be for the exclusive benefit of those
designated herein. 

18.3  
       
      Construction . It is the intention of each Employer that the Plan be qualified under
section 401 of the Code, and comply with the applicable provisions of ERISA, and all
provisions hereof should be construed to that result. 

18.4  
       
      Gender and Number . Except as otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine
terminology used herein also includes the feminine and neuter, and vice versa, and the
definition of any term herein in a singular will also include the plural, and vice versa. 

18.5  
       
      Titles . Titles of Articles and Sections hereof are for convenience only and will not
be considered in construing the Plan. 

18.6  
       
      Texas Law Applicable . The Plan and each of its provisions will be construed and their
validity determined by the laws of the State of Texas. 

18.7  
       
      Successors and Assigns . The Plan will be binding upon the successors and assigns of
the Company and each Employer and the Trustee and upon the heirs and personal
representatives of those individuals who become Participants hereunder. 

18.8  
       
      Plan Controls . Except as provided in Section 15.2, in the event of any conflict between the terms of the
Plan and any summary thereof or other document relating thereto, from whatever source, the
terms of the Plan will govern. 

End of Article XVIII 

69 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , Zale Corporation, the Company, acting by and through its duly authorized
officers, has caused this Agreement to be executed as of the day and year first above written.

ZALE CORPORATION  

By: 
       
     /s/ Mary E. Burton 

Its: 
       
     Chief Executive Officer 

70 

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.4(A)>
 4
 d40232exv10w4xay.htm
 2003 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN AS AMENDED

exv10w4xay 

Exhibit 10.4a 

ZALE CORPORATION 
2003 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
(As Amended Through August 2006) 

1. PREAMBLE 

This Zale Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from time to time (the
 Plan ), is intended to promote the interests of Zale Corporation, a Delaware corporation (together
with its Subsidiaries, the  Company ), and its stockholders by providing officers and other
employees (including directors who are employees) of the Company with appropriate incentives and
rewards to encourage them to enter into and continue in the employ of the Company and to acquire a
proprietary interest in the long-term success of the Company.

2. DEFINITIONS 

As used in the Plan, the following definitions apply to the terms indicated below:

(a)  Board of Directors  shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.

(b)  Cause,  when used in connection with the termination of a Participant s (as defined
herein) employment by the Company, shall mean (i) the willful and continued failure by the
Participant substantially to perform his or her duties and obligations to the Company (other than
any such failure resulting from his or her incapacity due to physical or mental illness) or (ii)
the willful engaging by the Participant in misconduct which is materially injurious to the Company.
For purposes of this Section 2(b), no act, or failure to act, on a Participant s part shall be
considered  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Participant in bad faith and
without reasonable belief that his or her action or omission was in the best interests of the
Company. The Company shall determine whether a termination of employment is for Cause and shall
notify the Committee of such a determination.

(c)  Change in Control  shall mean any of the following occurrences:

(1) any  person,  as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act (other
than the Company or any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit
plan of the Company), is or becomes the  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the
Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 50% or more of the
combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities;

(2) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such
period constitute the Board of Directors, and any new director (other than a director designated by
a person who has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in
clause (1), (3) or (4) of this definition) whose election by the Board of Directors or nomination
for election by the Company s stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of
the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the

period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any
reason to constitute at least a majority thereof;

(3) the stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any
other entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities
of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining
outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 50% of
the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity
outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation or (ii) a merger or consolidation
effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no
 person  (as hereinabove defined) acquires more than 50% of the combined voting power of the
Company s then outstanding securities; or

(4) the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or
an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the
Company s assets.

(d)  Code  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

(e)  Committee  shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors or such other
committee as the Board of Directors shall appoint from time to time to administer the Plan;
provided, that the Committee shall at all times consist of two or more persons, each of whom shall
be a member of the Board of Directors. To the extent required for transactions under the Plan to
qualify for the exemptions available under Rule 16b-3 (as defined herein), members of the Committee
(or any subcommittee thereof) shall be  non-employee directors  within the meaning of Rule 16b-3.
To the extent required for compensation realized from Incentive Awards (as defined herein) under
the Plan to be deductible by the Company pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code, members of the
Committee (or any subcommittee thereof) shall be  outside directors  within the meaning of such
section.

(f)  Company Stock  shall mean the common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company.

(g)  Disability  shall mean: (1) any physical or mental condition that would qualify a
Participant for a disability benefit under the long-term disability plan maintained by the Company
and applicable to him or her or (2) when used in connection with the exercise of an Incentive Stock
Option (as defined herein) following termination of employment, disability within the meaning of
Section 422(e)(3) of the Code.

(h)  Effective Date  shall mean November 6, 2003.

(i)  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

(j) The  Fair Market Value  of a share of Company Stock shall be the price at which the
Company Stock was last sold in the principal United States market for the Company Stock as of
the date for which the Fair Market Value is determined or, in the event that the price of a

share of Company Stock shall not be so reported, the Fair Market Value of a share of
Company Stock shall be determined by the Committee in its absolute discretion.

(k)  Incentive Award  shall mean an Option, Tandem SAR, Stand-Alone SAR, share of Restricted
Stock, share of Phantom Stock, Stock Bonus, or a Restricted Stock Unit (each defined herein)
granted pursuant to the terms of the Plan. 

(l)  Incentive Stock Option  shall mean an Option that is an  incentive stock option  within
the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.

(m)  Issue Date  shall mean the date established by the Committee on which Certificates
representing shares of Restricted Stock shall be issued by the Company pursuant to the terms of
Section 10(e).

(n)  Non-Qualified Stock Option  shall mean an Option that is not an Incentive Stock Option.

(o)  Option  shall mean an option to purchase shares of Company Stock granted pursuant to
Section 7.

(p)  Participant  shall mean an employee of the Company to whom an Incentive Award is granted
pursuant to the Plan and, upon his or her death, his or her successors, heirs, executors and
administrators, as the case may be.

(q) A share of  Phantom Stock  shall mean the right, granted pursuant to Section 11, to
receive in cash the Fair Market Value of a share of Company Stock.

(r)  Plan Agreement  shall mean the written agreement between the Company and a Participant
or other document approved by the Committee evidencing an Incentive Award.

(s) A share of  Restricted Stock  shall mean a share of Company Stock which is granted
pursuant to the terms of Section 10 hereof and which is subject to the restrictions set forth in
Section 10(c).

(t)  Rule 16b-3  shall mean the rule thus designated as promulgated under the Exchange Act.

(u)  Stand-Alone SAR  shall mean a stock appreciation right granted pursuant to Section 9
which is not related to any Option.

(v)  Stock Bonus  shall mean a bonus payable in shares of Company Stock granted pursuant to
Section 12.

(w)  Subsidiary  shall mean any corporation or other entity in which, at the time of
reference, the Company owns, directly or indirectly, stock or similar interests comprising more
than 50 percent of the combined voting power of all outstanding securities of such entity.

(x)  Tandem SAR  shall mean a stock appreciation right granted pursuant to Section 8 which is
related to an Option.

(y)  Vesting Date  shall mean the date established by the Committee on which a share of
Restricted Stock or Phantom Stock may vest.

(z)  Performance Goals  means the measurable performance objectives, if any, established by
the Committee for a Performance Period that are to be achieved with respect to an Incentive Award
granted to a Participant under the Plan. Performance Goals may be described in terms of
Company-wide objectives or in terms of objectives that are related to performance of the division,
department or function within the Company in which the Participant receiving the Incentive Award is
employed or on which the Participant s efforts have the most influence. The achievement of the
Performance Goals established by the Committee for any Performance Period will be determined
without regard to the effect on such Performance Goals of any acquisition or disposition by the
Company of a trade or business, or of substantially all of the assets of a trade or business,
during the Performance Period and without regard to any change in accounting standards by the
Financial Accounting Standards Board or any successor entity. The Performance Goals established by
the Committee for any Performance Period under the Plan will consist of one or more of the
following:

(i) 
       
     earnings per share and/or growth in earnings per share in relation to target objectives; 

(ii) 
       
     operating cash flow and/or growth in operating cash flow in relation to target
objectives; 

(iii) 
       
     cash available in relation to target objectives; 

(iv) 
       
     net income and/or growth in net income in relation to target objectives; 

(v) 
       
     revenue and/or growth in revenue in relation to target objectives; 

(vi) 
       
     total shareholder return (measured as the total of the appreciation of and dividends
declared on the Common Stock) in relation to target objectives; 

(vii) 
       
     return on invested capital in relation to target objectives; 

(viii) 
       
     return on shareholder equity in relation to target objectives; 

(ix) 
       
     return on assets in relation to target objectives; 

(x) 
       
     return on common book equity in relation to target objectives; 

(xi) 
       
     economic value added (relative or absolute); and 

(xiv) 
       
     working capital targets.

If the Committee determines that, as a result of a change in the business, operations, corporate
structure or capital structure of the Company, or the manner in which the Company conducts its
business, or any other events or circumstances, the Performance Goals are no longer suitable, the
Committee may in its discretion modify such Performance Goals or the related minimum acceptable
level of achievement, in whole or in part, with respect to a period as the Committee deems
appropriate and equitable, except where such action would result in the loss of the otherwise
available exemption of the Incentive Award under Section 162(m) of the Code. In such case, the
Committee will not make any modification of the Performance Goals or minimum acceptable level of
achievement.

(aa)  Performance Period  means, with respect to an Incentive Award, a period of time within
which the Performance Goals relating to such Incentive Award are to be measured. The Performance
Period will be established by the Committee at the time the Incentive Award is granted.

(bb)  Restricted Stock Unit  refers to a restricted stock unit as described in Section 10A.

(cc)  Stock Incentive Program  means a written program established by the Committee, pursuant
to which Incentive Awards are awarded under the Plan under terms, conditions and restrictions set
forth in such written program.

3. STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PLAN 

(a) Shares Available for Awards

The total number of shares of Company Stock with respect to which Incentive Awards may be
granted shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares. Such shares may be authorized but unissued Company
Stock or authorized and issued Company Stock held in the Company s treasury or acquired by the
Company for the purposes of the Plan. The Committee may direct that any stock certificate
evidencing shares issued pursuant to the Plan shall bear a legend setting forth such restrictions
on transferability as may apply to such shares pursuant to the Plan.

The grant of a Tandem SAR shall not reduce the number of shares of Company Stock with respect
to which Incentive Awards may be granted pursuant to the Plan.

(b) Individual Limitation

The total number of shares of Company Stock subject to Options and to Stand-Alone SARS,
awarded to any one employee during any fiscal year of the Company, shall not exceed 1,200,000
shares. Determinations under the preceding sentence shall be made in a manner that is consistent
with Section 162(m) of the Code and regulations promulgated thereunder. The provisions of this
Section 3(b) shall not apply in any circumstance with respect to which the Committee determines
that compliance with Section 162(m) of the Code is not necessary.

(c) Adjustment for Change in Capitalization

If there is any change in the outstanding shares of Company Stock by reason of a stock
dividend or distribution, stock split-up, recapitalization, combination or exchange of shares, or
by reason of any merger, consolidation, spinoff or other corporate reorganization in which the
Company is the surviving corporation, the number of shares available for issuance both in the
aggregate and with respect to each outstanding Incentive Award, the price per share under each
outstanding Incentive Award, and the limitation set forth in Section 3(b), shall be proportionately
adjusted by the Committee, whose determination shall be final and binding. After any adjustment
made pursuant to this Section 3(c), the number of shares subject to each outstanding Incentive
Award shall be rounded to the nearest whole number.

(d) Re-use of Shares

The following shares of Company Stock shall again become available for Incentive Awards: any
shares subject to an Incentive Award that remain unissued upon the cancellation or termination of
such Award for any reason whatsoever; any shares of Restricted Stock forfeited, provided that any
dividends paid on such shares are also forfeited; and any shares in respect of which a stock
appreciation right is settled for cash.

(e) Total Grants for Awards Other than Options

The total number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which Tandem SARs, Stand Alone
SARs, shares of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, shares of Phantom Stock and Stock Bonuses
may collectively be granted shall not exceed 30% of the total number of shares of Common Stock with
respect to which all Incentive Awards have been or may be granted under the Plan.

(f) No Repricing

Absent stockholder approval, neither the Committee nor the Board of Directors shall have any
authority, with or without the consent of the affected holders of Incentive Awards, to  reprice  an
Incentive Award after the date of its initial grant with a lower exercise price in substitution for
the original exercise price. This paragraph may not be amended, altered or repealed by the Board
of Directors or the Committee without approval of the stockholders of the Company.

4. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 

The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall from time to time
designate the employees of the Company who shall be granted Incentive Awards and the amount, type
and other features of each Incentive Award.

The Committee shall have full authority to administer the Plan, including authority to
interpret and construe any provision of the Plan and the terms of any Incentive Award issued under
it and to adopt such rules and regulations for administering the Plan as it may deem necessary or
appropriate. The Committee shall determine whether an authorized leave of absence shall constitute
termination of employment. Decisions of the Committee shall be final

and binding on all parties. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Board
of Directors may, in its sole discretion, at any time and from time to time, resolve to administer
the Plan, in which case the term  Committee  as used herein shall be deemed to mean the Board of
Directors.

The Committee may, in its absolute discretion, without amendment to the Plan, (i) accelerate
the date on which any Option or Stand-Alone SAR granted under the Plan becomes exercisable, (ii)
waive or amend the operation of Plan provisions respecting exercise after termination of employment
or otherwise adjust any of the terms of such Option or Stand-Alone SAR and (iii) accelerate the
Vesting Date or Issue Date, or waive any condition imposed hereunder, with respect to any share of
Restricted Stock or Phantom Stock or otherwise adjust any of the terms applicable to such share.

No member of the Committee shall be liable for any action, omission or determination relating
to the Plan, and the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless each member of the Committee and
each other director or employee of the Company to whom any duty or power relating to the
administration or interpretation of the Plan has been delegated against any cost or expense
(including counsel fees) or liability (including any sum paid in settlement of a claim with the
approval of the Committee) arising out of any action, omission or determination relating to the
Plan, unless, in either case, such action, omission or determination was taken or made by such
member, director or employee in bad faith and without reasonable belief that it was in the best
interests of the Company.

5. ELIGIBILITY 

The persons who shall be eligible to receive Incentive Awards pursuant to the Plan shall be
such employees of the Company (including officers of the Company, whether or not they are directors
of the Company) as the Committee shall designate from time to time. Directors who are not
employees or officers of the Company shall not be eligible to receive Incentive Awards under the
Plan.

6. AWARDS UNDER THE PLAN; PLAN AGREEMENTS 

The Committee may grant Options, Tandem SARS, Stand-Alone SARS, shares of Restricted Stock,
shares of Phantom Stock, Stock Bonuses, and Restricted Stock Units in such amounts and with such
terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine, subject to the provisions of the Plan.

Each Incentive Award granted under the Plan (except an unconditional Stock Bonus) shall be
evidenced by a Plan Agreement which shall contain such provisions as the Committee may in its sole
discretion deem necessary or desirable. By accepting an Incentive Award, a Participant thereby
agrees that the Incentive Award shall be subject to all of the terms and provisions of the Plan and
the applicable Plan Agreement.

7. OPTIONS 

(a) Identification of Options

Each Option shall be clearly identified in the applicable Plan Agreement as either an
Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option.

(b) Exercise Price

Each Plan Agreement with respect to an Option shall set forth the amount (the  exercise
price ) payable by the holder to the Company upon exercise of the Option. The exercise price per
share shall be determined by the Committee but shall in no event be less than the Fair Market Value
of a share of Company Stock on the date the Option is granted.

(c) Term and Exercise of Options

(1) Unless the applicable Plan Agreement provides otherwise, an Option shall become
cumulatively exercisable as to 25% of the shares covered thereby on each of the first, second,
third and fourth anniversaries of the date of grant. The Committee shall determine the expiration
date of each Option; provided, however, that no Incentive Stock Option shall be exercisable more
than ten years after the date of grant. Unless the applicable Plan Agreement provides otherwise,
no Option shall be exercisable prior to the first anniversary of the date of grant.

(2) An Option may be exercised for all or any portion of the shares as to which it is
exercisable; provided, that no partial exercise of an Option shall be for an aggregate exercise
price of less than $1,000. The partial exercise of an Option shall not cause the expiration,
termination or cancellation of the remaining portion thereof.

(3) An Option shall be exercised by delivering notice to the Company s principal office, to
the attention of its Secretary (or the Secretary s designee), no less than one business day in
advance of the effective date of the proposed exercise. Such notice shall be accompanied by the
applicable Plan Agreement, shall specify the number of shares of Company Stock with respect to
which the Option is being exercised and the effective date of the proposed exercise and shall be
signed by the Participant or other person then having the right to exercise the Option. Such
notice may be withdrawn at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately
preceding the effective date of the proposed exercise. Payment for shares of Company Stock
purchased upon the exercise of an Option shall be made on the effective date of such exercise by
one or a combination of the following means: (i) in cash, by certified check, bank cashier s check
or wire transfer; (ii) subject to the approval of the Committee, in shares of Company Stock owned
by the Participant for at least six months prior to the date of exercise and valued at their Fair
Market Value on the effective date of such exercise; or (iii) subject to the approval of the
Committee, by such other provision as the Committee may from time to time authorize. Any payment
in shares of Company Stock shall be effected by the delivery of such shares to the Secretary (or
the Secretary s designee) of the Company, duly endorsed in blank or accompanied by stock powers
duly executed in blank, together with any other documents and evidences as the Secretary (or the
Secretary s designee) of the Company shall require.

(4) Certificates for shares of Company Stock purchased upon the exercise of an Option shall be
issued in the name of the Participant or other person entitled to receive such shares, and
delivered to the Participant or such other person as soon as practicable following the effective
date on which the Option is exercised.

(d) Limitations on Incentive Stock Options

(1) To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of shares of Company Stock with
respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by a Participant during
any calendar year under the Plan and any other stock option plan of the Company (or any  subsidiary
corporation  of the Company within the meaning of Section 424 of the Code) shall exceed $100,000,
or such higher value as may be permitted under Section 422 of the Code, such Options shall be
treated as Non-Qualified Stock Options. Such Fair Market Value shall be determined as of the date
on which each such Incentive Stock Option is granted.

(2) No Incentive Stock Option may be granted to an individual if, at the time of the proposed
grant, such individual owns stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of
all classes of stock of the Company (or any  subsidiary corporation  of the Company within the
meaning of Section 424 of the Code), unless (i) the exercise price of such Incentive Stock Option
is at least 110% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Company Stock at the time such Incentive
Stock Option is granted and (ii) such Incentive Stock Option is not exercisable after the
expiration of five years from the date such Incentive Stock Option is granted.

(e) Effect of Termination of Employment

(1) Unless the applicable Plan Agreement provides or the Committee shall determine otherwise,
in the event that the employment of a Participant with the Company shall terminate for any reason
other than Cause, Disability or death: (i) Options granted to such Participant, to the extent that
they were exercisable at the time of such termination, shall remain exercisable until the date that
is three months after such termination, on which date they shall expire; and (ii) Options granted
to such Participant, to the extent that they were not exercisable at the time of such termination,
shall expire at the close of business on the date of such termination. The three-month period
described in this Section 7(e)(1) shall be extended to one year in the event of the Participant s
death during such three-month period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Option shall be exercisable
after the expiration of its term.

(2) Unless the applicable Plan Agreement provides or the Committee shall determine otherwise,
in the event that the employment of a Participant with the Company shall terminate on account of
the Disability or death of the Participant: (i) Options granted to such Participant, to the extent
that they were exercisable at the time of such termination, shall remain exercisable until the
first anniversary of such termination, on which date they shall expire; and (ii) Options granted to
such Participant, to the extent that they were not exercisable at the time of such termination,
shall expire at the close of business on the date of such termination. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of its term.

(3) In the event of the termination of a Participant s employment for Cause, all outstanding
Options granted to such Participant shall expire at the commencement of business on the date of
such termination.

(f) Acceleration of Exercise Date Upon Change in Control

Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Option granted under the Plan and outstanding
at such time shall become fully and immediately exercisable and shall remain exercisable until its
expiration, termination or cancellation pursuant to the terms of the Plan. In addition, in the
event of a potential Change in Control, the Committee may in its discretion, cancel any outstanding
Options and pay to the holders thereof, in cash or stock, or any combination thereof, the value of
such Options based upon the price per share of Common Stock to be received by other shareholders of
the Company in the Change in Control less the exercise price of each Option.

8. TANDEM SARS 

The Committee may grant in connection with any Option granted hereunder one or more Tandem
SARS relating to a number of shares of Company Stock less than or equal to the number of shares of
Company Stock subject to the related Option. A Tandem SAR may be granted at the same time as, or,
in the case of a Non-Qualified Stock Option, subsequent to the time that its related Option is
granted.

(a) Benefit Upon Exercise

The exercise of a Tandem SAR with respect to any number of shares of Company Stock shall
entitle the Participant to a cash payment, for each such share, equal to the excess of (i) the Fair
Market Value of a share of Company Stock on the exercise date over (ii) the option exercise price
of the related Option. Such payment shall be made as soon as practicable after the effective date
of such exercise.

(b) Term and Exercise of Tandem SAR

(1) A Tandem SAR shall be exercisable only if and to the extent that its related Option is
exercisable.

(2) The exercise of a Tandem SAR with respect to a number of shares of Company Stock shall
cause the immediate and automatic cancellation of its related Option with respect to an equal
number of shares. The exercise of an Option, or the cancellation, termination or expiration of an
Option (other than pursuant to this Section 8(b)(2)), with respect to a number of shares of Company
Stock shall cause the automatic and immediate cancellation of any related Tandem SARS to the extent
that the number of shares of Company Stock remaining subject to such Option is less than the number
of shares subject to such Tandem SARS.

Tandem SARS shall be cancelled in the order in which they became exercisable.

(3) A Tandem SAR may be exercised for all or any portion of the shares as to which it is
exercisable; provided, that no partial exercise of a Tandem SAR shall be for an aggregate exercise
price of the related Option of less than $1,000. The partial exercise of a Tandem SAR shall not
cause the expiration, termination or cancellation of the remaining portion thereof.

(4) No Tandem SAR shall be assignable or transferable otherwise than together with its related
Option.

(5) A Tandem SAR shall be exercised by delivering notice to the Company s principal office, to
the attention of its Secretary (or the Secretary s designee), no less than one business day in
advance of the effective date of the proposed exercise. Such notice shall be accompanied by the
applicable Plan Agreement, shall specify the number of shares of Company Stock with respect to
which the Tandem SAR is being exercised and the effective date of the proposed exercise and shall
be signed by the Participant or other person then having the right to exercise the Option to which
the Tandem SAR is related. Such notice may be withdrawn at any time prior to the close of business
on the business day immediately preceding the effective date of the proposed exercise.

9. STAND-ALONE SARS 

(a) Exercise Price

The exercise price per share of a Stand-Alone SAR shall be determined by the Committee at the
time of grant, but shall in no event be less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Company Stock
on the date of grant.

(b) Benefit Upon Exercise

The exercise of a Stand-Alone SAR with respect to any number of shares of Company Stock shall
entitle the Participant to a cash payment, for each such share, equal to the excess of (i) the Fair
Market Value of a share of Company Stock on the exercise date over (ii) the exercise price of the
Stand-Alone SAR. Such payments shall be made as soon as practicable.

(c) Term and Exercise of Stand-Alone SARS

(1) Unless the applicable Plan Agreement provides otherwise, a Stand-Alone SAR shall become
cumulatively exercisable as to 25 percent of the shares covered thereby on each of the first,
second, third and fourth anniversaries of the date of grant. The Committee shall determine the
expiration date of each Stand-Alone SAR. Unless the applicable Plan Agreement provides otherwise,
no Stand-Alone SAR shall be exercisable prior to the first anniversary of the date of grant.

(2) A Stand-Alone SAR may be exercised for all or any portion of the shares as to which it is
exercisable; provided, that no partial exercise of a Stand-Alone SAR shall be for an aggregate
exercise price of less than $1,000. The partial exercise of a Stand-Alone SAR shall not cause the
expiration, termination or cancellation of the remaining portion thereof.

(3) A Stand-Alone SAR shall be exercised by delivering notice to the Company s principal
office, to the attention of its Secretary (or the Secretary s designee), no less than one business
day in advance of the effective date of the proposed exercise. Such notice shall be accompanied by
the applicable Plan Agreement, shall specify the number of shares of Company Stock with respect to
which the Stand-Alone SAR is being exercised, and the effective date of the proposed exercise, and
shall be signed by the Participant. The Participant may withdraw such notice at any time prior to
the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the effective date of the proposed
exercise.

(d) Effect of Termination of Employment

The provisions set forth in Section 7(e) with respect to the exercise of Options following
termination of employment shall apply as well to such exercise of Stand-Alone SARS.

(e) Acceleration of Exercise Date Upon Change in Control

Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, any Stand-Alone SAR granted under the Plan and
outstanding at such time shall become fully and immediately exercisable and shall remain
exercisable until its expiration, termination or cancellation pursuant to the terms of the Plan.

10. RESTRICTED STOCK 

(a) Issue Date and Vesting Date

At the time of the grant of shares of Restricted Stock, the Committee shall establish an Issue
Date or Issue Dates and a Vesting Date or Vesting Dates with respect to such shares. The Committee
may divide such shares into classes and assign a different Issue Date and/or Vesting Date for each
class. If the grantee is employed by the Company on an Issue Date (which may be the date of
grant), the specified number of shares of Restricted Stock shall be issued in accordance with the
provisions of Section 10(e). Provided that all conditions to the vesting of a share of Restricted
Stock imposed pursuant to Section 10(b) are satisfied, and except as provided in Section 10(g),
upon the occurrence of the Vesting Date with respect to a share of Restricted Stock, such share
shall vest and the restrictions of Section 10(c) shall cease to apply to such share.

(b) Conditions to Vesting

At the time of the grant of shares of Restricted Stock, the Committee may impose such
restrictions or conditions to the vesting of such shares as it, in its absolute discretion, deems
appropriate. By way of example and not by way of limitation, the Committee may require, as a
condition to the vesting of any class or classes of shares of Restricted Stock, that the
Participant or the Company achieves such performance goals as the Committee may specify.

(c) Restrictions on Transfer Prior to Vesting

Prior to the vesting of a share of Restricted Stock, no transfer of a Participant s rights
with respect to such share, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise,
shall be permitted. Immediately upon any attempt to transfer such rights, such share, and all of
the rights related thereto, shall be forfeited by the Participant.

(d) Dividends on Restricted Stock

The Committee in its discretion may require that any dividends paid on shares of Restricted
Stock shall be held in escrow until all restrictions on such shares have lapsed.

(e) Issuance of Certificates

(1) Reasonably promptly after the Issue Date with respect to shares of Restricted Stock, the
Company shall cause to be issued a stock certificate, registered in the name of the Participant to
whom such shares were granted, evidencing such shares; provided, that the Company shall not cause
such a stock certificate to be issued unless it has received a stock power duly endorsed in blank
with respect to such shares. Each such stock certificate shall bear the following legend:

The transferability of this certificate and the shares of stock represented hereby are
subject to the restrictions, terms and conditions (including forfeiture provisions and
restrictions against transfer) contained in the Zale Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive Plan
and related Plan Agreement, and such rules, regulations and interpretations as the Zale
Corporation Compensation Committee may adopt. Copies of the Plan, Plan Agreement and, if
any, rules, regulations and interpretations are on file in the office of the Secretary of
Zale Corporation, 901 West Walnut Hill Lane, Irving, Texas 75038-1003.

Such legend shall not be removed until such shares vest pursuant to the terms hereof.

(2) Each certificate issued pursuant to this Section 10(e), together with the stock powers
relating to the shares of Restricted Stock evidenced by such certificate, shall be held by the
Company unless the Committee determines otherwise.

(f) Consequences of Vesting

Upon the vesting of a share of Restricted Stock pursuant to the terms of the Plan and the
applicable Plan Agreement, the restrictions of Section 10(c) shall cease to apply to such share.
Reasonably promptly after a share of Restricted Stock vests, the Company shall cause to be
delivered to the Participant to whom such shares were granted, a certificate evidencing such share,
free of the legend set forth in Section 10(e). Notwithstanding the foregoing, such share still may
be subject to restrictions on transfer as a result of applicable securities laws.

(g) Effect of Termination of Employment

(1) Unless the applicable Plan Agreement or the Committee provides otherwise, during the 90
days following termination of a Participant s employment for any reason other than Cause, the
Company shall have the right to require the return of any shares to which restrictions

on transferability apply, in exchange for which the Company shall repay to the Participant (or the
Participant s estate) any amount paid by the Participant for such shares. In the event that the
Company requires such a return of shares, it also shall have the right to require the return of all
dividends paid on such shares, whether by termination of any escrow arrangement under which such
dividends are held or otherwise.

(2) In the event of the termination of a Participant s employment for Cause, all shares of
Restricted Stock granted to such Participant which have not vested as of the date of such
termination shall immediately be returned to the Company, together with any dividends paid on such
shares, in return for which the Company shall repay to the Participant any amount paid for such
shares.

(h) Effect of Change in Control

Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, all outstanding shares of Restricted Stock which
have not theretofore vested shall immediately vest.

10A. TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 

A Restricted Stock Unit shall entitle the Participant to receive, at a specified future date,
a number of shares of Company Stock equal to a specified or determinable number of Restricted Stock
Units granted by the Committee, or, in the Committee s sole discretion at the time thereof, an
amount equal to the then Fair Market Value of such shares. At the time of the grant, the Committee
must determine the target number of Restricted Stock Units subject to a Restricted Stock Units
Incentive Award and (i) the period over which such Restricted Stock Unit shall vest and in what
proportions or (ii) the Performance Period and the Performance Goals applicable to the
determination of the ultimate settlement of the Restricted Stock Unit.

(a) Settlement.

Settlement with respect to Restricted Stock Units may be made by the Company in shares of
Company Stock, or in cash, as provided in the applicable Plan Agreement or Stock Incentive Program
or, in the absence of such provision, as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion.

(b) Conditions to Settlement.

Each Restricted Stock Unit granted under the Plan shall be settled at the end of the vesting
period or Performance Period or upon the occurrence of an event, and in such number of shares or
amount, as the Committee shall specify in the applicable Plan Agreement or Stock Incentive Program;
provided, however, that in no event will payment occur later than two and one-half (2
 1 /2) months after the later of (i) the end of the Participant s first taxable year in
which the amount is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, or (ii) the end of the
Company s first taxable year in which the amount is no longer subject to a substantial risk of
forfeiture.

11. PHANTOM STOCK 

(a) Vesting Date

At the time of the grant of shares of Phantom Stock, the Committee shall establish a Vesting
Date or Vesting Dates with respect to such shares. The Committee may divide such shares into
classes and assign a different Vesting Date for each class. Provided that all conditions to the
vesting of a share of Phantom Stock imposed pursuant to Section 11(c) are satisfied, and except as
provided in Section 11(d), upon the occurrence of the Vesting Date with respect to a share of
Phantom Stock, such share shall vest.

(b) Benefit Upon Vesting

Upon the vesting of a share of Phantom Stock, the Participant shall be entitled to receive in
cash, within 30 days of the date on which such share vests, an amount equal to the sum of (i) the
Fair Market Value of a share of Company Stock on the date on which such share of Phantom Stock
vests and (ii) the aggregate amount of cash dividends paid with respect to a share of Company Stock
during the period commencing on the date on which the share of Phantom Stock was granted and
terminating on the date on which such share vests.

(c) Conditions to Vesting

At the time of the grant of shares of Phantom Stock, the Committee may impose such
restrictions or conditions to the vesting of such shares as it, in its absolute discretion, deems
appropriate. By way of example and not by way of limitation, the Committee may require, as a
condition to the vesting of any class or classes of shares of Phantom Stock, that the Participant
or the Company achieves such performance goals as the Committee may specify.

(d) Effect of Termination of Employment

(1) Unless the applicable Plan Agreement or the Committee provides otherwise, shares of
Phantom Stock that have not vested, together with any dividends credited on such shares, shall be
forfeited upon the Participant s termination of employment for any reason other than Cause.

(2) In the event of the termination of a Participant s employment for Cause, all shares of
Phantom Stock granted to such Participant which have not vested as of the date of such termination
shall immediately be forfeited, together with any dividends credited on such shares.

(e) Effect of Change in Control

Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control all outstanding shares of Phantom Stock which have
not theretofore vested shall immediately vest.

12. STOCK BONUSES 

In the event that the Committee grants a Stock Bonus, a certificate for the shares of Company
Stock comprising such Stock Bonus shall be issued in the name of the Participant to whom such grant
was made and delivered to such Participant as soon as practicable after the date on which such
Stock Bonus is payable.

13. RIGHTS AS A STOCKHOLDER 

No person shall have any rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares of Company Stock
covered by or relating to any Incentive Award until the date of issuance of a stock certificate
with respect to such shares.

Except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 3(c), no adjustment to any Incentive Award
shall be made for dividends or other rights for which the record date occurs prior to the date such
stock certificate is issued.

14. NO SPECIAL EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS; NO RIGHT TO INCENTIVE AWARD 

Nothing contained in the Plan or any Plan Agreement shall confer upon any Participant any
right with respect to the continuation of employment by the Company or interfere in any way with
the right of the Company, subject to the terms of any separate employment agreement to the
contrary, at any time to terminate such employment or to increase or decrease the compensation of
the Participant.

No person shall have any claim or right to receive an Incentive Award hereunder. The
Committee s granting of an Incentive Award to a Participant at any time shall neither require the
Committee to grant any other Incentive Award to such Participant or other person at any time nor
preclude the Committee from making subsequent grants to such Participant or any other person.

15. SECURITIES MATTERS 

(a) The Company shall be under no obligation to affect the registration pursuant to the
Securities Act of 1933 of any interests in the Plan or any shares of Company Stock to be issued
hereunder or to effect similar compliance under any state laws. Notwithstanding anything herein to
the contrary, the Company shall not be obligated to cause to be issued or delivered any
certificates evidencing shares of Company Stock pursuant to the Plan unless and until the Company
is advised by its counsel that the issuance and delivery of such certificates is in compliance with
all applicable laws, regulations of governmental authority and the requirements of the New York
Stock Exchange and any other securities exchange on which shares of Company Stock are traded.
Certificates evidencing shares of Company Stock issued pursuant to the terms hereof, may bear such
legends, as the Committee or the Company, in its sole discretion, deems necessary or desirable to
insure compliance with applicable securities laws.

(b) The transfer of any shares of Company Stock hereunder shall be effective only at such
time as counsel to the Company shall have determined that the issuance and delivery of such shares
is in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations of governmental authority and the
requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and any other securities exchange on which

shares of Company Stock are traded. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, defer the
effectiveness of any transfer of shares of Company stock hereunder in order to allow the issuance
of such shares to be made pursuant to registration or an exemption from registration or other
methods for compliance available under federal or state securities laws. The Company shall inform
the Participant in writing of the Committee s decision to defer the effectiveness of a transfer.
During the period of such a deferral in connection with the exercise of an Option, the Participant
may, by written notice, withdraw such exercise and obtain the refund of any amount paid with
respect thereto.

16. WITHHOLDING TAXES 

Whenever cash is to be paid pursuant to an Incentive Award, the Company shall have the right
to deduct therefrom an amount sufficient to satisfy any federal, state and local withholding tax
requirements related thereto.

Whenever shares of Company Stock are to be delivered pursuant to an Incentive Award, the
Company shall have the right to require the Participant to remit to the Company in cash an amount
sufficient to satisfy any federal, state and local withholding tax requirements related thereto.
With the approval of the Committee, which it shall have sole discretion to grant, a Participant may
satisfy the foregoing requirement by electing to have the Company withhold from delivery shares of
Company Stock having a value equal to the amount of tax to be withheld. Such shares shall be
valued at their Fair Market Value on the date as of which the amount of tax to be withheld is
determined (the  Tax Date ). Fractional share amounts shall be settled in cash. Such a
withholding election may be made with respect to all or any portion of the shares to be delivered
pursuant to an Incentive Award. To the extent required for such a withholding of stock to qualify
for the exemption available under Rule 16b-3, such an election by a grantee whose transactions in
Company Stock are subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act shall be: (i) subject to the
approval of the Committee in its sole discretion; (ii) irrevocable; (iii) made no sooner than six
months after the grant of the award with respect to which the election is made; and (iv) made at
least six months prior to the Tax Date unless such withholding election is in connection with
exercise of an Option and both the election and the exercise occur prior to the Tax Date in a
 window period  of ten business days beginning on the third day following release of the Company s
quarterly or annual summary statement of sales and earnings.

17. NOTIFICATION OF ELECTION UNDER SECTION 83(b) OF THE CODE 

If any Participant shall, in connection with the acquisition of shares of Company Stock under
the Plan, make the election permitted under Section 83(b) of the Code (i.e., an election to include
in gross income in the year of transfer the amounts specified in Section 83(b)), such Participant
shall notify the Company of such election within ten days of filing notice of the election with the
Internal Revenue Service, in addition to any filing and notification required pursuant to
regulations issued under the authority of Code Section 83(b).

18. NOTIFICATION UPON DISQUALIFYING DISPOSITION UNDER SECTION 421(b) OF THE CODE 

Each Plan Agreement with respect to an Incentive Stock Option shall require the Participant to
notify the Company of any disposition of shares of Company Stock issued pursuant to the exercise of
such Option under the circumstances described in Section 421(b) of the Code (relating to certain
disqualifying dispositions) within ten days of such disposition.

19. AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF THE PLAN 

The Board of Directors may, at any time, suspend or terminate the Plan or revise or amend it
in any respect whatsoever; provided, however, that stockholder approval shall be required if and to
the extent required by Rule 16b-3 or by any comparable or successor exemption under which the Board
of Directors believes it is appropriate for the Plan to qualify, or if and to the extent the Board
of Directors determines that such approval is appropriate for purposes of satisfying Section 162(m)
or Section 422 of the Code. Nothing herein shall restrict the Committee s ability to exercise its
discretionary authority pursuant to Section 4, which discretion may be exercised without amendment
to the Plan. No action hereunder may, without the consent of a Participant, reduce the
Participant s rights under any outstanding Incentive Award.

20. NO OBLIGATION TO EXERCISE 

The grant to a Participant of an Option, Tandem SAR or Stand-Alone SAR shall impose no
obligation upon such Participant to exercise such Option, Tandem SAR or Stand-Alone SAR.

21. TRANSFERS UPON DEATH; NONASSIGNABILITY 

Upon the death of a Participant outstanding Incentive Awards granted to such Participant may
be exercised only by the executor or administrator of the Participant s estate or by a person who
shall have acquired the right to such exercise by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
No transfer of an Incentive Award by will or the laws of descent and distribution shall be
effective to bind the Company unless the Company shall have been furnished with (a) written notice
thereof and with a copy of the will and/or such evidence as the Committee may deem necessary to
establish the validity of the transfer and (b) an agreement by the transferee to comply with all
the terms and conditions of the Incentive Award that are or would have been applicable to the
Participant and to be bound by the acknowledgments made by the Participant in connection with the
grant of the Incentive Award.

During a Participant s lifetime, the Committee may permit the transfer, assignment or other
encumbrance of an outstanding Option or outstanding shares of Restricted Stock unless (i) such
Option is an Incentive Stock Option and the Committee and the Participant intend that it shall
retain such status or (ii) the award is meant to qualify for the exemptions available under Rule
16b-3 and the Committee and the Participant intend that it shall continue to so qualify.

22. EXPENSES AND RECEIPTS 

The expenses of the Plan shall be paid by the Company. Any proceeds received by the Company
in connection with any Incentive Award will be used for general corporate purpose

23. FAILURE TO COMPLY 

In addition to the remedies of the Company elsewhere provided for herein, failure by a
Participant (or beneficiary) to comply with any of the terms and conditions of the Plan or the
applicable Plan Agreement, unless such failure is remedied by such Participant (or beneficiary)
within ten days after notice of such failure by the Committee, shall be grounds for the
cancellation and forfeiture of such Incentive Award, in whole or in part, as the Committee, in its
sole discretion, may determine.

24. EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM OF PLAN 

The Plan shall be effective as of the Effective Date. Unless earlier terminated by the Board
of Directors, the right to grant Incentive Awards under the Plan will terminate on the tenth
anniversary of the Effective Date. Incentive Awards outstanding at Plan termination will remain in
effect according to their terms and the provisions of the Plan.

25. APPLICABLE LAW 

Except to the extent preempted by any applicable federal law, the Plan will be construed and
administered in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to the
principles of conflicts of laws thereunder.

</EX-10.4(A)>

<EX-10.6(A)>
 5
 d40232exv10w6xay.htm
 OUTSIDE DIRECTORS' 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN AS AMENDED

exv10w6xay 

Exhibit 10.6a 

ZALE CORPORATION 
OUTSIDE DIRECTORS  2005 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
(As Amended Through August 2006) 

1. PREAMBLE 

This Zale Corporation Outside Directors  2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from
time to time (the  Plan ), is intended to promote the interests of Zale Corporation, a Delaware
corporation (the  Company ), and its stockholders by providing directors of the Company who are not
employees of the Company with appropriate incentives and rewards to serve on the board of directors
of the Company and to acquire a proprietary interest in the long-term success of the Company.

2. DEFINITIONS 

As used in the Plan, the following definitions apply to the terms indicated below:

(a)  Board of Directors  shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.

(b)  Cause,  when used in connection with a Participant s removal or resignation as a
member of the Board of Directors, shall mean (i) the willful and continued failure by the
Participant substantially to perform his or her duties and obligations to the Company (other
than any such failure resulting from his or her incapacity due to physical or mental
illness) or (ii) the willful engaging by the Participant in misconduct which is materially
injurious to the Company. For purposes of this Section 2(b), no act, or failure to act, on
a Participant s part shall be considered  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by
the Participant in bad faith and without reasonable belief that his or her action or
omission was in the best interests of the Company. The Board of Directors shall determine
whether a Participant s removal or resignation as a member of the Board of Directors is for
Cause.

(c)  Change in Control  shall mean the first to occur of the following:

(i) any  person,  as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the
Exchange Act (other than the Company or any trustee or other fiduciary holding
securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company), is or becomes the
 beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or
indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 50% or more of the combined
voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities;

(ii) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the
beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors, and any new director
(other than a director designated by a person who has entered into an agreement with
the Company to effect a transaction described in clause (i), (iii) or (iv) of this
definition) whose election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by
the Company s stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of

the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning
of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so
approved, cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof;

(iii) the stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of the
Company with any other entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation that would
result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto
continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into
voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 50% of the combined voting
power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding
immediately after such merger or consolidation or (ii) a merger or consolidation
effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in
which no  person  (as hereinabove defined) acquires more than 50% of the combined
voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities; or

(iv) the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of
the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or
substantially all of the Company s assets.

(d)  Code  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

(e)  Company Stock  shall mean the common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the
Company.

(f)  Disability  shall mean any physical or mental condition that would qualify a
Participant for a disability benefit under the long-term disability plan maintained by the
Company and applicable to him or her.

(g)  Effective Date  shall mean November 11, 2005.

(h)  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

(i) The  Fair Market Value  of a share of Company Stock shall be the price at which
the Company Stock was last sold in the principal United States market for the Company
Stock as of the date for which the Fair Market Value is determined or, in the event that
the price of a share of Company Stock shall not be so reported, the Fair Market Value of
a share of Company Stock shall be determined by the Committee in its absolute discretion.

(j)  Incentive Award  shall mean an Option or a share of Restricted Stock granted
pursuant to the terms of the Plan.

(k)  Issue Date  shall mean the date established by the Board of Directors on which
certificates representing shares of Restricted Stock shall be issued by the Company pursuant
to the terms of Section 8(e).

2 

(l)  Option  shall mean an option to purchase shares of Company Stock granted pursuant
to Section 6(a) and as described in Section 7.

(m)  Participant  shall mean a member of the Board of Directors who is not an employee
of the Company or a Subsidiary.

(n) A share of  Restricted Stock  shall mean a share of Company Stock which is granted
pursuant to the terms of Section 6(b) and as described in Section 8.

(o)  Rule 16b-3  shall mean the rule thus designated as promulgated under the Exchange
Act.

(p)  Subsidiary  shall mean any corporation or other entity in which, at the time of
reference, the Company owns, directly or indirectly, stock or similar interests comprising
more than 50 percent of the combined voting power of all outstanding securities of such
entity.

(q)  Vesting Date  shall mean the date established by the Board of Directors on which a
share of Restricted Stock may vest.

3. STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PLAN 

(a) Shares Available for Option or Restricted Stock Awards

The total number of shares of Company Stock with respect to which Incentive Awards may be
granted shall not exceed 250,000 shares, with not more than 100,000 shares to be granted as
Restricted Stock awards. Such shares may be authorized but unissued Company Stock or authorized
and issued Company Stock held in the Company s treasury or acquired by the Company for the purposes
of the Plan. The Board of Directors may direct that any stock certificate evidencing shares of
Company Stock issued pursuant to the Plan shall bear a legend setting forth such restrictions on
transferability as may apply to such shares pursuant to the Plan.

(b) Adjustment for Change in Capitalization

If there is any change in the outstanding shares of Company Stock by reason of a stock
dividend or distribution, stock split-up, recapitalization, combination or exchange of shares, or
by reason of any merger, consolidation, spin-off or other corporate reorganization in which the
Company is the surviving corporation, the number of shares available for issuance both in the
aggregate and with respect to each outstanding Incentive Award, and the price per share under each
outstanding Option, shall be proportionately adjusted by the Board of Directors, whose
determination shall be final and binding. After any adjustment made pursuant to this Section 3(b),
the number of shares subject to each outstanding Incentive Award shall be rounded to the nearest
whole number.

(c) Re-use of Shares

3 

Any shares subject to an Incentive Award that remain unissued upon the cancellation or
termination of such Incentive Award for any reason whatsoever shall again become available for
Incentive Awards under the Plan.

(d) No Repricing

Absent stockholder approval, the Board of Directors shall not have any authority, with or
without the consent of the affected holders of Options, to  reprice  an Option after the date of
its initial grant with a lower exercise price in substitution for the original exercise price.
This paragraph may not be amended, altered or repealed by the Board of Directors without approval
of the stockholders of the Company.

4. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 

The Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall have
full authority to administer the Plan, including authority to interpret and construe any provision
of the Plan and the terms of any Incentive Awards issued under it and to adopt such rules and
regulations for administering the Plan as it may deem necessary or appropriate. Decisions of the
Board of Directors shall be final and binding on all parties. Unless determined otherwise by the
Board of Directors, the authority of the Board of Directors to administer the Plan is delegated to
the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

No member of the Board of Directors shall be liable for any action, omission or determination
relating to the Plan, and the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless each member of the Board of
Directors and each other director or employee of the Company to whom any duty or power relating to
the administration or interpretation of the Plan has been delegated against any cost or expense
(including counsel fees) or liability (including any sum paid in settlement of a claim with the
approval of the Board of Directors) arising out of any action, omission or determination relating
to the Plan, unless, in either case, such action, omission or determination was taken or made by
such member, director or employee in bad faith and without reasonable belief that it was in the
best interests of the Company.

5. ELIGIBILITY 

The persons who shall be eligible to receive Options or Restricted Stock awards pursuant to
the Plan shall be such members of the Board of Directors who are not employees of the Company or a
Subsidiary.

6. INCENTIVE AWARDS UNDER THE PLAN 

Incentive Awards granted under the Plan shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth
in the Plan, and shall be evidenced by an Incentive Award Agreement which shall not be inconsistent
with the provisions of the Plan. The Board of Directors shall be entitled to increase or decrease
the number of Incentive Awards Participants receive.

(a) Annual Awards. Annually, Participants shall receive the following Incentive
Awards:

4 

(i) 3,800 Options; and

(ii) 1,500 shares of Restricted Stock.

(b) Other Awards

Upon the initial election to the Board of Directors of any person who is a
Participant (other than through an initial election by the Company s stockholders at
an annual meeting of stockholders), such person shall be granted:

(i) Options to purchase such number of shares of Company Stock as shall be
determined by multiplying (1) 308 by (2) the number of full calendar months
remaining before the next annual meeting of stockholders of the Company at which
directors will be elected (if no date has been set for the next annual meeting of
stockholders such date shall be presumed to be November 1); and

(ii) Restricted Stock in such number of shares as shall be determined by
multiplying (1) 104 by (2) the number of full calendar months remaining before the
next annual meeting of stockholders of the Company at which directors will be
elected (if no date has been set for the next annual meeting of stockholders such
date shall be presumed to be November 1).

The Board of Directors shall be entitled to increase or decrease these pro rata amounts in
order to reflect any adjustment on the annual awards.

7. OPTIONS 

(a) Exercise Price

The exercise price per share of an Option shall be the Fair Market Value of a share of Company
Stock on the date the Option is granted.

(b) Term and Exercise of Options

(i) Unless the Board, in its discretion, determines otherwise, each Option
shall become cumulatively exercisable as to 25% of the shares covered thereby on
each of the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the date of grant. The
expiration date of each Option shall be ten years after the date of grant;
 provided ,  however , that if the expiration date would occur during a
period in which the Participant is prohibited from trading in the Company Stock
pursuant to the provisions of the Company s insider trading policy, then the
expiration date shall be extended and such Option shall expire on the
30 th  day after the prohibition against trading under the Company s
insider trading policy has ceased to be in effect.

(ii) An Option may be exercised for all or any portion of the shares as to
which it is exercisable; provided, that no partial exercise of an Option shall be
for an aggregate exercise price of less than $1,000. The partial exercise of an

5 

Option shall not cause the expiration, termination or cancellation of the
remaining portion thereof.

(iii) An Option shall be exercised by delivering notice to the Company s
principal office, to the attention of its Secretary (or the Secretary s designee),
no less than one business day in advance of the effective date of the proposed
exercise. Such notice shall specify the number of shares of Company Stock with
respect to which the Option is being exercised and the effective date of the
proposed exercise and shall be signed by the Participant or other person then having
the right to exercise the Option. Such notice may be withdrawn at any time prior to
the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the effective date
of the proposed exercise. Payment for shares of Company Stock purchased upon the
exercise of an Option shall be made on the effective date of such exercise by one or
a combination of the following means: (i) in cash, by certified check, bank
cashier s check or wire transfer; (ii) subject to the approval of the Board of
Directors, in shares of Company Stock owned by the Participant for at least six
months prior to the date of exercise and valued at their Fair Market Value on the
effective date of such exercise; or (iii) subject to the approval of the Board of
Directors, by such other provision as the Board of Directors may from time to time
authorize. Any payment in shares of Company Stock shall be effected by the delivery
of such shares to the Secretary (or the Secretary s designee) of the Company, duly
endorsed in blank or accompanied by stock powers duly executed in blank, together
with any other documents and evidences as the Secretary (or the Secretary s
designee) of the Company shall require.

(iv) Certificates for shares of Company Stock purchased upon the exercise of an
Option shall be issued in the name of the Participant or other person entitled to
receive such shares, and delivered to the Participant or such other person as soon
as practicable following the effective date on which the Option is exercised.

(c) Effect of Termination of Directorship

(i) Unless the Board of Directors shall determine otherwise, in the event of a
Participant s removal or resignation as a member of the Board of Directors for any
reason other than Cause, Disability or death: (i) Options granted to such
Participant, to the extent that they were exercisable at the time of such removal or
resignation, shall remain exercisable until the date that is three months after such
removal or resignation, on which date they shall expire; and (ii) Options granted to
such Participant, to the extent that they were not exercisable at the time of such
removal or resignation, shall expire at the close of business on the date of such
removal or resignation. The three-month period described in this Section 7(c)(i)
shall be extended to one year in the event of the Participant s death during such
three-month period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Option shall be exercisable
after the expiration of its term.

6 

(ii) Unless the Board of Directors shall determine otherwise, in the event of a
Participant s removal or resignation as a member of the Board of Directors on
account of the Disability or death of the Participant: (i) Options granted to such
Participant, to the extent that they were exercisable at the time of such removal or
resignation, shall remain exercisable until the first anniversary of such removal or
resignation, on which date they shall expire; and (ii) Options granted to such
Participant, to the extent that they were not exercisable at the time of such
removal or resignation, shall expire at the close of business on the date of such
removal or resignation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Option shall be
exercisable after the expiration of its term.

(iii) In the event of a Participant s removal or resignation as a member of the
Board of Directors for Cause, all outstanding Options granted to such Participant
shall expire at the commencement of business on the date of such removal or
resignation.

(d) Acceleration of Exercise Date Upon Change in Control

Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Option granted under the Plan and outstanding
at such time shall become fully and immediately exercisable and shall remain exercisable until its
expiration, termination or cancellation pursuant to the terms of the Plan. In addition, in the
event of a potential Change in Control, the Board of Directors may in its discretion, cancel any
outstanding Options and pay to the holders thereof, in cash or stock, or any combination thereof,
the value of such Options based upon the price per share of Company Stock to be received by
shareholders of the Company in the transaction giving rise to the Change in Control less the
exercise price of each Option.

8. RESTRICTED STOCK 

(a) Issue Date and Vesting Date

At the time of the grant of shares of Restricted Stock, the Board of Directors shall establish
an Issue Date or Issue Dates and a Vesting Date or Vesting Dates with respect to such shares.
Provided that all conditions to the vesting of a share of Restricted Stock imposed pursuant to
Section 8(b) are satisfied, upon the occurrence of the Vesting Date with respect to a share of
Restricted Stock, such share shall vest and the restrictions of Section 8(b) shall cease to apply
to such share. Unless the Board of Directors determines otherwise, shares of Restricted Stock
issued under the Plan vest on the first anniversary of the Issue Date.

(b) Conditions to Vesting

At the time of the grant of shares of Restricted Stock, the Board of Directors may impose such
restrictions or conditions to the vesting of such shares as it, in its absolute discretion, deems
appropriate. By way of example and not by way of limitation, the Board of Directors may require,
as a condition to the vesting of any class or classes of shares of Restricted Stock, that the
Participant or the Company achieves such performance goals as the Board of Directors may specify.

7 

(c) Restrictions on Transfer Prior to Vesting

Prior to the vesting of a share of Restricted Stock, no transfer of a Participant s rights
with respect to such share, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise,
shall be permitted. Immediately upon any attempt to transfer such rights, such share, and all of
the rights related thereto, shall be forfeited by the Participant.

(d) Dividends on Restricted Stock

The Board of Directors in its discretion may require that any dividends paid on shares of
Restricted Stock shall be held in escrow until all restrictions on such shares have lapsed.

(e) Issuance of Certificates

Reasonably promptly after the Issue Date with respect to shares of Restricted Stock, the
Company shall cause to be issued a stock certificate, registered in the name of the Participant to
whom such shares were granted, evidencing such shares; provided, that the Company shall not cause
such a stock certificate to be issued unless it has received a stock power duly endorsed in blank
with respect to such shares. Each such stock certificate shall bear the following legend:

The transferability of this certificate and the shares of stock
represented hereby are subject to the restrictions, terms and
conditions (including forfeiture provisions and restrictions against
transfer) contained in the Zale Corporation Outside Directors  2005
Stock Incentive Plan, and such rules, regulations and
interpretations as the Zale Corporation Board of Directors may
adopt. Copies of the Plan and, if any, rules, regulations and
interpretations are on file in the office of the Secretary of Zale
Corporation, 901 West Walnut Hill Lane, Irving, Texas 75038-1003.

Such legend shall not be removed until such shares vest pursuant to the terms hereof.

Each certificate issued pursuant to this Section 8(e), together with the stock powers relating
to the shares of Restricted Stock evidenced by such certificate, shall be held by the Company
unless the Board of Directors determines otherwise.

(f) Voting Rights of Restricted Stock

During the restricted period, Participants holding shares of Restricted Stock may exercise
full voting rights with respect to the shares.

(g) Consequences of Vesting

Upon the vesting of a share of Restricted Stock pursuant to the terms of the Plan, the
restrictions of Section 8(c) shall cease to apply to such share. Reasonably promptly after a share
of Restricted Stock vests, the Company shall cause to be delivered to the Participant to whom such
shares were granted, a certificate evidencing such share, free of the legend set forth in

8 

Section 8(e). Notwithstanding the foregoing, such share still may be subject to restrictions
on transfer as a result of applicable securities laws.

(h) Effect of Termination of Directorship

(i) Unless the Board of Directors provides otherwise, during the 90 days
following a Participant s removal or resignation as a member of the Board of
Directors for any reason other than Cause, the Company shall have the right to
require the return of any shares to which restrictions on transferability apply, in
exchange for which the Company shall repay to the Participant (or the Participant s
estate) any amount paid by the Participant for such shares. In the event that the
Company requires such a return of shares, it also shall have the right to require
the return of all dividends paid on such shares, whether by termination of any
escrow arrangement under which such dividends are held or otherwise.

(ii) In the event of a Participant s removal or resignation as a member of the
Board of Directors for Cause, all shares of Restricted Stock granted to such
Participant which have not vested as of the date of such removal or resignation
shall immediately be returned to the Company, together with any dividends paid on
such shares, in return for which the Company shall repay to the Participant any
amount paid for such shares.

(i) Effect of Change in Control

Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, all outstanding shares of Restricted Stock which
have not theretofore vested shall immediately vest.

9. RIGHTS AS A STOCKHOLDER 

No person shall have any rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares of Company Stock
covered by or relating to any Option until the date of issuance of a stock certificate with respect
to such shares of Company Stock. Except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 3(b), no
adjustment to any Option shall be made for dividends or other rights for which the record date
occurs prior to the date such stock certificate is issued.

10. NO RIGHT TO INCENTIVE AWARD 

Other than as specifically provided in the Plan, no person shall have any claim or right to
receive an Incentive Award hereunder. The Board of Director s granting of an Incentive Award to a
Participant at any time shall neither require the Board of Directors to grant any other Incentive
Award to such Participant or other person at any time nor preclude the Board of Directors from
making subsequent grants to such Participant or any other person.

11. SECURITIES MATTERS 

The Company shall be under no obligation to effect the registration pursuant to the Securities
Act of 1933 of any interests in the Plan or any shares of Company Stock to be issued

9 

hereunder or to effect similar compliance under any state laws. Notwithstanding anything
herein to the contrary, the Company shall not be obligated to cause to be issued or delivered any
certificates evidencing shares of Company Stock pursuant to the Plan unless and until the Company
is advised by its counsel that the issuance and delivery of such certificates is in compliance with
all applicable laws, regulations of governmental authority and the requirements of the New York
Stock Exchange and any other securities exchange on which shares of Company Stock are traded.
Certificates evidencing shares of Company Stock issued pursuant to the terms hereof, may bear such
legends, as the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, deems necessary or desirable to insure
compliance with applicable securities laws.

The transfer of any shares of Company Stock hereunder shall be effective only at such time as
counsel to the Company shall have determined that the issuance and delivery of such shares is in
compliance with all applicable laws, regulations of governmental authority and the requirements of
the New York Stock Exchange and any other securities exchange on which shares of Company Stock are
traded. The Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, defer the effectiveness of any
transfer of shares of Company stock hereunder in order to allow the issuance of such shares to be
made pursuant to registration or an exemption from registration or other methods for compliance
available under federal or state securities laws. The Company shall inform the Participant in
writing of the Board of Director s decision to defer the effectiveness of a transfer. During the
period of such a deferral in connection with the exercise of an Option, the Participant may, by
written notice, withdraw such exercise and obtain the refund of any amount paid with respect
thereto.

12. NOTIFICATION OF ELECTION UNDER SECTION   83(b)   OF THE CODE 

If any Participant shall, in connection with the acquisition of shares of Company Stock under
the Plan, make the election permitted under Section 83(b) of the Code (i.e., an election to include
in gross income in the year of transfer the amounts specified in Section 83(b)), such Participant
shall notify the Company of such election within ten days of filing notice of the election with the
Internal Revenue Service, in addition to any filing and notification required pursuant to
regulations issued under the authority of Code Section 83(b).

13. WITHHOLDING TAXES 

Whenever cash is to be paid pursuant to an Option or share of Restricted Stock, the Company
shall have the right to deduct therefrom an amount sufficient to satisfy any federal, state and
local withholding tax requirements related thereto.

Whenever shares of Company Stock are to be delivered either pursuant to an Option or as
Restricted Stock, the Company shall have the right to require the Participant to remit to the
Company in cash an amount sufficient to satisfy any federal, state and local withholding tax
requirements related thereto. With the approval of the Board of Directors, which it shall have
sole discretion to grant, a Participant may satisfy the foregoing requirement by electing to have
the Company withhold from delivery shares of Company Stock having a value equal to the amount of
tax to be withheld. Such shares shall be valued at their Fair Market Value on the date as of which
the amount of tax to be withheld is determined (the  Tax Date ). Fractional share amounts shall be
settled in cash. Such a withholding election may be made with respect to all or

10 

any portion of the shares to be delivered pursuant to an Option or as Restricted Stock. To
the extent required for such a withholding of stock to qualify for the exemption available under
Rule 16b-3, such an election by a grantee whose transactions in Company Stock are subject to
Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act shall be: (i) subject to the approval of the Board of Directors
in its sole discretion; (ii) irrevocable; (iii) made no sooner than six months after the grant of
the award with respect to which the election is made; and (iv) made at least six months prior to
the Tax Date unless such withholding election is in connection with exercise of an Option and both
the election and the exercise occur prior to the Tax Date in a  window period  of ten business days
beginning on the third day following release of the Company s quarterly or annual summary statement
of sales and earnings.

14. AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF THE PLAN 

Except as provided in Section 3(d), the Board of Directors may, at any time, suspend or
terminate the Plan or revise or amend it in any respect whatsoever; provided, however, that
stockholder approval shall be required if and to the extent required by Rule 16b-3 or the New York
Stock Exchange or any other securities exchange on which shares of the Company Stock are traded.
Nothing herein shall restrict the Board of Director s ability to exercise its discretionary
authority pursuant to Section 4, which discretion may be exercised without amendment to the Plan.
No action hereunder may, without the consent of a Participant, reduce the Participant s rights
under any outstanding Incentive Award.

15. NO OBLIGATION TO EXERCISE 

The grant to a Participant of an Option shall impose no obligation upon such Participant to
exercise such Option.

16. TRANSFERS UPON DEATH; NONASSIGNABILITY 

Upon the death of a Participant outstanding Options granted to such Participant may be
exercised only by the executor or administrator of the Participant s estate or by a person who
shall have acquired the right to such exercise by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
No transfer of an Incentive Award by will or the laws of descent and distribution shall be
effective to bind the Company unless the Company shall have been furnished with (a) written notice
thereof and with a copy of the will and/or such evidence as the Board of Directors may deem
necessary to establish the validity of the transfer and (b) an agreement by the transferee to
comply with all the terms and conditions of the Incentive Award that are or would have been
applicable to the Participant and to be bound by the acknowledgments made by the Participant in
connection with the grant of the Incentive Award.

During a Participant s lifetime, the Board of Directors may permit the transfer, assignment or
other encumbrance of an outstanding Incentive Award unless the award is meant to qualify for the
exemptions available under Rule 16b-3 and the Board of Directors and the Participant intend that it
shall continue to so qualify.

11 

17. EXPENSES AND RECEIPTS 

The expenses of the Plan shall be paid by the Company. Any proceeds received by the Company
in connection with the exercise of any Option by a Participant will be used for general corporate
purposes.

18. FAILURE TO COMPLY 

In addition to the remedies of the Company elsewhere provided for herein, failure by a
Participant (or beneficiary) to comply with any of the terms and conditions of the Plan, unless
such failure is remedied by such Participant (or beneficiary) within ten days after notice of such
failure by the Board of Directors, shall be grounds for the cancellation and forfeiture of such
Incentive Award, in whole or in part, as the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may
determine.

19. EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM OF PLAN 

The Plan shall be effective as of the Effective Date. Unless earlier terminated by the Board
of Directors, the right to grant Options under the Plan will terminate on the tenth anniversary of
the Effective Date. Options outstanding at the termination of the Plan will remain in effect
according to their terms and the provisions of the Plan.

20. APPLICABLE LAW 

Except to the extent preempted by any applicable federal law, the Plan will be construed and
administered in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to the
principles of conflicts of laws thereunder.

12 

</EX-10.6(A)>

<EX-10.8>
 6
 d40232exv10w8.htm
 SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN AS AMENDED

exv10w8 

EXHIBIT 10.8 

ZALE DELAWARE, INC 
SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN 
(   As amended through July 31, 2006   ) 

ARTICLE I 

ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE 

1.1  Establishment . Zale Delaware, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby establishes the Zale
Delaware, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  Plan ), effective September 15, 1995 . 

1.2  Purpose . The purpose of this Plan is to provide eligible executives with the
opportunity to receive each year after retirement, payments equal to a portion of their final
average pay. The Plan is meant to provide a long-term reward for executives that recognizes their
contribution to the Company s success throughout their careers.

ARTICLE II 

DEFINITIONS 

Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms used herein shall have the meanings set forth
below:

2.1   Base Salary   means the regular salary paid to a Participant by the Company,
excluding bonuses, benefits under employee benefit plans, fringe benefits, and any other extra or
additional payments made to or for the benefit of such Participant.

2.2   Benefit   means the monetary amount to be paid a vested Participant under the
Plan.

2.3   Bonus Points   means the number of points awarded to a Participant under the
formula described in Section 4.2.

2.4   Bonus Target   means a goal for net income established each Plan Year by the
Compensation Committee.

2.5    Change of Control   shall be deemed to have occurred if, subsequent to the
Effective Date of this Plan,

(a) any  person  (within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the
beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act),
directly or indirectly, of either (I) a majority of the Company s outstanding Common Stock
or (2) securities of the Company representing a majority of

the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding voting securities, except
that there shall be no Change of Control if such person (i) becomes such a beneficial owner
solely as the result of the acquisition of the outstanding Common Stock or other outstanding
voting securities by the Company or (ii) is an employee benefit plan or related trust
sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation or other entity controlled by the
Company;

(b) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of
such period constitute the Board of Directors of the Company cease, at any time after the
beginning of such period, for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors
of the Company, unless the election of any such new director was nominated, effected, or
ratified by at least two-thirds of the directors still in office who were directors at the
beginning of such two-year period or whose election was previously so nominated, effected,
or ratified;

(c) a reorganization, merger, or consolidation of the Company with one or more other
corporations or other entities, unless, in any case, (1) at least a majority of the
Company s outstanding Common Stock (or the equivalent equity security of the other surviving
or resulting corporation or other entity) and at least a majority of the combined voting
power of the Company s or other surviving or resulting corporation s or other entity s
outstanding voting securities are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, after such
reorganization, merger, or consolidation by all or substantially all of the persons who were
the beneficial owners, respectively, or majority of the Company s outstanding Common Stock
and a majority of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding voting
securities immediately before such reorganization, merger, or consolidation in substantially
the same proportions as their beneficial ownership thereof immediately before such
reorganization, merger or consolidation, and (2) at least a majority of the members of the
board of directors or other governing body of the Company or the other corporation or other
entity surviving or resulting from such reorganization, merger, or consolidation were, or
were approved by at least two-thirds of the, members of the Board of Directors of the
Company at the time of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such
reorganization, merger or consolidation;

(d) the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the
Company to one or more other corporations or other entities, unless the conditions set forth
in subclauses (1) and (2) of subsection (c) above are satisfied with respect to the
acquiring corporation or other entity (and, as applicable, with respect to the time of the
initial agreement providing for such sale or other disposition of assets); or

(e) the dissolution and complete liquidation of the Company.

2.6   Company   means Zale Delaware, Inc.

2.7   Compensation Committee   means the Compensation Committee of the Company.

2.8   Disabled   means the inability of a Participant to perform the duties of his or
her position as determined by a physician approved by the Compensation Committee.

2 

2.9   Final Average Pay   means the average of the monthly Base Salary received by the
Participant from the Company in the 60-month period ending immediately prior to the Participant s
retirement or other termination from the Company.

2.10   Maximum Bonus Target   means the highest goal for net income established each
year by the Compensation Committee.

2.11  Participant  means an executive who participates in the Plan as provided in Article III.

2.12  Plan  means the Zale Delaware, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan set forth in
this document, as it may be amended from time to time.

2.13   Plan Year   means August 1 through July 31 except that the first Plan Year shall
commence September 15, 1995 and end July 31, 1996.

2.14   Years of Service   means a 12-month period of continuous service by a Participant
for the Company or (to the extent the Compensation Committee authorizes) an affiliate of the
Company. Only service after September 14, 1995 is counted for the purpose of calculating Years of
Service; provided, however, that for any Participant who was employed by the Company in an eligible
position for the entire period from September 14, 1995 to July 31, 1996, that Participant shall be
considered to have one full Year of Service as of July 31, 1996.

ARTICLE III 

ELIGIBILITY 

3.1  Eligibility . The classes of executives who are designated by the Company as
members of the  Management Group  who hold the office of Corporate Vice President, Division Senior
Vice President, and all higher executive offices, are eligible to be Participants in the Plan.

3.2  Loss of   Eligibility . If an individual ceases to be an individual listed
in Section 3.1, he or she will no longer participate in the Plan. Loss of eligibility shall not
result in a forfeiture of a Participant s Benefit previously earned under the Plan and a former
Participant, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Plan, may continue to vest in such Benefit
based on Years of Service after loss of eligibility.

ARTICLE IV 

DETERMINATION OF BENEFITS 

4.1  Calculation of   Benefit . A Participant who is vested as determined in
Section 4.3 is entitled to payment of his Benefit at the time and in the form described in Article
V .  The Participant s Benefit shall be monthly payments continuing over the life of the Participant
commencing on the first day of the month immediately following the Participant s 65th birthday,
with the amount of each payment determined under the following formula:

3 

Benefit Points x Final Average Pay  
100

If a Participant requests, as allowed in Article V. that his Benefit commence other than on the
first day of the month immediately following the Participant s 65th birthday, or that his Benefit
be paid in a form other than monthly payments for the life of the Participant, then the Benefit to
be paid to the Participant and, if applicable, his surviving spouse, shall be the actuarial
equivalent of the Benefit payable to the Participant commencing on the first day of the month
immediately following the Participant s 65th birthday and ending on the last day of the month in
which the Participant dies. Actuarial equivalence shall be determined using the following
actuarial assumptions. The applicable interest rate shall be that of 30-year Treasury securities
as of the first day of the calendar year in which the Benefits commence. The mortality assumption
shall be based on the 1983 group annuity mortality tables.

4.2  Benefit Points . Each Plan Year the Compensation Committee shall set a Bonus
Target and a Maximum Bonus Target. In each Plan Year that the Company achieves at least its Bonus
Target, each Participant will be credited with a number of Benefit Points based on the following
schedule:

(a) No points if below Bonus Target; 
(b) I point at Bonus Target; 
(e) 2 points at  50%  of Maximum Bonus Target; or 
(d) 3 points at 100% of Maximum Bonus Target.

A Participant may accrue from 0 to 30 points, depending on Company performance and the number of
Plan Years he or she participates in the Plan.

4.3  Vesting . A Participant vests in his or her Benefit after completing five Years of
Service following September 15, 1995. Service prior to September 15, 1995 does not count as Years
of Service. However, in its sole and absolute discretion, the Compensation Committee may
accelerate vesting for any Participant. in the event of a Change of Control, the Benefits of all
Participants will automatically vest irrespective of each Participant s Years of Service. Further,
a Participant s Benefit will become fully vested if he dies or becomes Disabled while employed by
the Company.

4.4  Transferred Liability . In addition to the amount, if any, payable to Max Brown
( Brown ) as provided in Section 4.1 of the Plan, Brown shall also be entitled to benefits
calculated in the following manner: The liability assumed by the Company from Zale Corporation
shall be the initial additional benefit payable under the Plan. Such amount shall be credited to a
bookkeeping account maintained by the Compensation Committee for the benefit of Brown. Thereafter,
on each July 31, interest shall be credited to such bookkeeping account at the prime interest rate,
plus one percent. The prime interest rate to be used shall be the prime interest rate as of such
July 31 or, if higher, as of the preceding August 1 as listed in  The Wall Street Journal 
for such date or if  The Wall Street Journal  is not published on such date, on the
immediately preceding date on which it was published. As of August 1, 1996, the benefit being
assumed by the Company to be paid pursuant to the Plan was $89,948.91 to be paid in two annual
installments with one half of the amount payable on August 1, 1998 and the balance of the amount
(including interest earned after august 1, 1998) payable on August 1, 1999, and $102,448.00 to be
paid in two annual installments with one half of the amount payable on

4 

August 1, 1999) payable on August 1, 2000. The payments to be made to Brown under the Plan will be
paid wider the foregoing payment schedules, but the amounts payable will include interest earned
under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan through January 3, 1997, and interest earned under
the Plan from January 3, 1997 to the date of payment.

ARTICLE V 

PAYMENT OF BENEFITS 

5.1  Retirement . If a Participant retires on or after attaining age 65 ,  benefits will
begin on the first day of the month after the Participant s retirement. The normal form of payment
is an annuity providing monthly benefits for the life of the Participant. If the Participant
retires after attaining age 62, hut before attaining age 65, the Compensation Committee, in its
sole and absolute discretion, may authorize payments commencing as of the first day of any month
after the Participant s retirement.

5.2  Death . If a Participant dies while actively employed, the Participant s surviving
spouse will be eligible to begin receiving the Participant s Benefit in the form of monthly
payments for the life of the surviving spouse, commencing on the first day of the month following
the date the Participant would have attained age 65 .  In its sole and absolute discretion, the
Compensation Committee may authorize payments to the Participant s surviving spouse commencing on
an earlier date. The Benefits payable to the surviving spouse shall have an actuarial value
(calculated using the assumptions prescribed in Section 4.1) equal to the Benefits that would have
been paid to the Participant commencing at age  65,  based on the Participant s Final Average Pay and
Bonus Points as of the date of the Participant s death. If the Participant has no surviving spouse,
no death benefits are payable.

5.3 Disability. If a Participant becomes Disabled, his Benefit will become payable commencing
on the first day of the month after his or her Company-provided disability benefits cease.

5.4  Other Termination of Service . If the employment of a Participant terminates for a
reason other than death or Disability, prior to the date the Participant attains age 62, the
payment of his or her vested Benefits, if any, will commence on the first day of the month
immediately after he or she attains age 65 ,  unless the Compensation Committee, in its sole and
absolute discretion, elects to commence payments on an earlier date.

5.5  Form of Payment . The normal form of payment of the Benefit is monthly payments
for the life of the Participant. If the Participant prefers, he or she may elect to receive the
Benefit in the form of a joint and survivor annuity calculated as provided in Section 4.1. A joint
and survivor annuity is a form of payment providing monthly payments for the life of the
Participant, followed by payments to the Participant s surviving spouse, if any, after the
Participant s death for the remainder of the surviving spouse s life, equal to  50%  of the monthly
amount payable during the life of the Participant.

5.6  Withholding of Taxes . The Company shall withhold from payments made hereunder any
taxes required to be withheld by any law or regulation of the federal, state, or local government.

5 

ARTICLE VI 

ADMINISTRATION 

6.1  Authority   of   Compensation   Committee . The Compensation
Committee shall have sole and absolute power and authority to interpret, construe and administer
the Plan. The Compensation Committee s interpretation and construction of the Plan and actions
hereunder shall be binding and conclusive on all persons and for all purposes. The Compensation
Committee may designate certain Company employees to assist in the administration of the Plan. In
addition, the Compensation Committee may employ attorneys, accountants, actuaries and other
professional advisors to assist the Compensation Committee in its administration of the Plan. The
Company shall pay the reasonable fees of any such advisor employed by the Compensation Committee.
To the extent permitted by law, the Compensation Committee, the Board or any employee of the
Company shall not he liable to any person for any action taken or omitted in connection with the
interpretation and administration of the Plan unless attributable to his or her own willful
misconduct or lack or good faith.

6.2   Indemnification of Employees of the Company . The Company hereby agrees to
indemnify, jointly and severally, the Compensation Committee and all employees of the Company
against arty and all claims, losses, damages or expenses, including, counsel fees, incurred by
them, and any Liability, including any amounts paid in settlement with theft approval arising from
their action or failure to act with respect to any matter relating to the Plan, except when the
same is judicially determined to be attributable to their willful misconduct or lack of good faith.
The indemnification provided by this Section 6.2 shall survive the termination of the Plan and
shall be binding on the Company s successors and assigns.

6.3  Cost of Administration . The cost of this Plan and the expenses of administering
the Plan shall be paid by the Company.

ARTICLE VII 

CLAIMS PROCEDURE 

7.1  Claim . Any person claiming a benefit, requesting an interpretation or ruling
under the Plan, or requesting information under the Plan shall present the request in writing to
the Compensation Committee, which shall respond in writing as soon as possible.

7.2  Denial of Claim . If the claim or request is denied, the written notice of denial
shall state:

(a) The reasons for denial, with specific reference to the Plan provisions on which the
denial is based.

(b) A description of any additional material or information required and an explanation
of why it is necessary.

6 

(c) An explanation of the Plan s claim review procedure.

7.3  Review of   Claim . Any person whose claim or request is denied or who has
not received a response within thirty (30) days, may request review by notice in writing received
by the Compensation Committee within seventy-five (75 )  days after the date of the notice of denial.
The claim or request shall be reviewed by the Compensation Committee, who may, but shall not be
required to, grant the claimant a hearing. On review, the claimant may have representation,
examine pertinent documents and submit issues and comments in writing. The decision on review
shall normally be made within sixty (60) days. If an extension of time is required for a hearing
or other special circumstance, the claimant shall be notified and the time limit shall be one
hundred twenty (120) days. The decision shall be in writing; shall state the reasons for denial
and shall reference the relevant plan provisions.

7.4  Appeal of Decision on Review . If the claimant does not agree with the decision of
the Compensation Committee on review of the claim, the claimant may appeal the decision of the
Compensation Committee to the Board of Directors of the Company by notice in writing received by
the Board of Directors within seventy-five  (75)  days after the date of the decision on review.

7.5  Final Decision . The decision on appeal shall normally be made within sixty (60)
days. If an extension of time is required for a hearing or other special circumstance, the
claimant shall be notified and the time limit shall be one hundred twenty (120) days. The decision
of the Board of Directors on appeal shall be in writing and shall state the reasons for denial and
shall reference the relevant Plan provisions. All decisions on appeal shall be final and bind all
parties concerned.

ARTICLE VIII 

AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 

8.1  Amendment . Subject to the consent requirements of this Section 8.1, the Board of
Directors of the Company, on a favorable vote of at least  75%  of the directors, shall have the
right to amend this Plan at any time and from time to time, including a retroactive amendment. Any
such amendment shall become effective upon the date stated therein, except as otherwise provided in
such amendment. No amendment shall decrease or restrict Benefits, whether vested or not, earned as
of the date of execution of such amendment without the consent of the affected Participant or
Participants. Further, no amendment may extend the date that nonvested benefits would otherwise
become vested without the consent of the affected Participant or Participants. Any amendment
approved by the Board of Directors may be signed by the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary of
the Company.

8.2  Termination of the Plan . The Company has established this Plan with the bona fide
intention and expectation that it will deem it advisable to continue it in effect. However, the
Board of Directors of the Company, on a favorable vote of  7 5% of at least the directors, may
terminate the Plan in its entirety at any time. In such event each Participant shall become fully
vested in his Benefit earned as of the date of termination.

7 

ARTICLE IX 

GENERAL PROVISIONS 

9.1  Rights Against the Company . The Plan shall not be deemed to constitute a contract
between the Company and any Participant. Nothing contained in the Plan shall be deemed to
interfere with the right of the Company to terminate any Participant at any time, without regard to
the effect such termination may have on any rights under the Plan.

9.2  Funding . The Company intends that the Plan shall constitute an  unfunded plan 
for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ) and, to the extent
applicable, Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and that
any employee or spouse of an employee eligible to receive benefits under the Plan shall have the
status of an unsecured general creditor of the Company as to the benefits provided pursuant to the
Plan or assets identified specifically by the Company as a reserve for the discharge of its
obligations under the Plan.

9.3  Payment Due to an Individual Who is Incapable of Managing His or Her Affairs . If
the Compensation Committee shall find that any person to whom any payment is payable under the Plan
is unable to care for his or her affairs because of mental or physical illness, accident, or death,
or is a minor, any payment due (unless a prior claim therefor shall have been made by a duly
appointed guardian, committee or other legal representative) may be paid to the spouse, a child, a
parent, a brother or sister or any person deemed by the Compensation Committee, in its sole
discretion, to have incurred expenses for such person otherwise entitled to payment, in such manner
and proportions as the Compensation Committee may determine. Such payments shall be a complete
discharge of the liabilities of the Company under this Plan, and the Company shall have no further
obligation to see to the application of any money so paid.

9.4  Spendthrift Clause . No right, title or interest of any kind in the Plan shall be
transferable or assignable by any Participant or surviving spouse of a Participant or be subject to
alienation, anticipation, encumbrance, garnishment, attachment., execution or levy of any kind,
whether voluntary or involuntary, nor subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements, or
torts of the Participant or surviving spouse. Any attempt to alienate, anticipate, encumber, sell,
transfer, assign, pledge, garnish, attach or otherwise subject to legal or equitable process or
encumber or dispose of any interest in the Plan shall be void.

9.5  Severability . In the event that any provision of this Plan shall be declared
illegal or invalid for any reason, said illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining
provisions of this Plan but shall be fully severable and this Plan shall be construed and enforced
as if said illegal or invalid provision had never been inserted herein.

9.6  Construction . The article and section headings and numbers are included only for
convenience of reference and are not to be taken as limiting or extending the meaning of any of the
terms and provisions of this Plan. Whenever appropriate, words used in the singular shall include
the plural or the plural may be read as the singular. When used herein, the masculine gender
includes the feminine gender.

8 

9.7  Governing Law . The validity and effect of this Plan, and the rights and obligations of
all persons affected hereby, shall be construed and determined in accordance with the laws of the
State of Texas.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the Company has executed this Plan on the 23 day of February, 1996,
effective as of the 15th day of September, 1995.

ZALE DELAWARE ,  INC.  

9 

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.10>
 7
 d40232exv10w10.htm
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - MARY E. BURTON

exv10w10 

EXHIBIT 10.10 

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 

THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (this  Agreement ), dated October 12, 2006, but effective as of July
24, 2006 (the  Effective Date ) is by and between Zale Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the
 Company ), and Mary Elizabeth Burton ( Executive ).

WHEREAS, Executive and Company desire to enter into an employment agreement which sets forth
the terms and conditions for Executive s continued employment with the Company,

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recital and of the mutual covenants set
forth herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are
hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

1. 
       
      Employment; Term . 

(a) Executive agrees to continue in the employment of the Company, and the Company agrees to
employ Executive, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. The term of
Executive s employment under this Agreement commenced on the Effective Date and, subject to
its earlier termination as provided in Section 4, will continue through July 23, 2007 (the
 Initial Term ).

(b) Unless earlier terminated in accordance with Section 4 of this Agreement, at the end of
the Term this Agreement shall be automatically renewed and extended for subsequent one year
terms (each, a  Renewal Term and collectively with the Initial Term, the  Term ) unless at
least ninety (90) days prior to the end of the Term or any Renewal Term either party
provides written notice of termination to the other party.

2. 
       
      Position; Duties . During the Term, Executive will serve as the President and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company and her duties will be those designated from time to time by
the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ). Executive agrees during the Term to
devote her full time efforts, skills and abilities to the performance of her duties as
described herein and to the furtherance of the Company s business. As consideration for this
Agreement and specifically in consideration for the promises described in Section 9, the
Company promises to provide Executive with confidential and proprietary information and trade
secrets, the receipt and sufficiency of which Executive acknowledges, including, without
limitation, Trade Secrets (as defined below) belonging to the Company for use in the
performance of Executive s duties for the Company. Executive will report directly to the
Board. At the request of the Board, Executive further agrees to serve, without additional
compensation, as an officer, director or both of any subsidiary, division or affiliate of the
Company or any other entity in which the Company holds a controlling equity interest,
provided, however, that (i) the Company 

shall indemnify Executive from liabilities in connection with serving in any such position
to the same extent as her indemnification rights pursuant to the Company s Certificate of
Incorporation, Bylaws and applicable Delaware law, and (ii) such service shall not
materially detract from the responsibilities of Executive set forth herein or her ability to
perform such responsibilities. 

3. 
       
      Compensation . 

(a)  Base Salary . During the Term, the Company will pay to Executive an annual base
salary of not less than $850,000 ( Base Salary ), which will be payable in arrears in
accordance with the Company s normal payroll procedures and will be reviewed annually by the
Board and will be subject to increases at the discretion of the Board or an authorized
committee or representative thereof. After any such increase, the term  Base Salary  as
utilized in this Agreement will thereafter refer to the adjusted amount.

(b)  Incentive Bonus . During the Term, Executive will be eligible to receive an
annual incentive bonus as determined under the Company s executive bonus program,
established by the Board. The annual target bonus ( Target Bonus ) for Executive will be
125% of Executive s Base Salary. Executive s annual incentive bonus for the fiscal year
ending July 31, 2007 shall be no less than the full Target Bonus. The annual incentive
bonus will be paid to Executive in accordance with the terms and conditions of the executive
bonus program.

(c)  Equity and Long-Term Incentive Awards . In addition to all previous grants of
restricted stock or units and stock options, Executive will be entitled to participate in
equity and other long-term incentive award programs of the Company, including, without
limitation, the Equity Plan, on a basis generally consistent with that of other senior-level
executives.

(d)  Vacation . Executive will be entitled to at least four (4) paid weeks of
vacation per year during each fiscal year of the Term of this Agreement.

(e)  Executive Perquisites; Benefit; Expenses .

(i) Executive will be entitled to receive executive perquisites and fringe and other
benefits on a basis which is no less favorable than the basis on which such perquisites and
benefits are provided to any other senior executive (including for this purpose, to the
extent applicable, executive s family) under any of the Company s plans, policies,
arrangements or programs in effect from time to time.

(ii) The Company will reimburse Executive for such reasonable and necessary
out-of-pocket business expenses as may be incurred by her in the performance of her duties
hereunder upon presentation of itemized expense statements and such other supporting
information as may be required by the Company. In addition, the Company will reimburse
Executive for, or at Executive s request pay directly on Executive s behalf, the legal fees
and other expenses incurred by her in connection with the negotiation and drafting of this
Agreement in an amount not to exceed $25,000 upon production of receipts and/or invoices to
the reasonable satisfaction of the Board, and the Company

2 

shall pay to Executive tax gross-up payments so that the net amount retained by
Executive after payment of all applicable income and employment taxes is equal to the agreed
amount to be reimbursed for such legal fees and expenses, provided, however, that a gross up
payment shall not be made with respect to any reimbursement to the extent the related
expense is deductible or is otherwise excludable from Executive s taxable income.

(f)  Tax Withholding . The Company has the right to deduct from any compensation
payable to Executive under this Agreement social security (FICA) taxes and all Federal,
state and local income taxes and charges as are required by applicable law and regulations.

4. 
       
      Termination . Subject to the provisions of Section 5 hereof, the Term will terminate
as specified in Section 1(b) or, if earlier, upon Executive s termination of employment with
the Company as follows: 

(a)  Death . Executive s employment shall terminate upon the death of Executive.

(b)  Termination for Cause . The Company may terminate Executive s employment at any
time for Cause (as hereinafter defined) by delivering a written termination notice to
Executive. For purposes of this Agreement,  Cause  shall mean any of the following:

(i) Executive s indictment for a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude;

(ii) Executive s commission of an act constituting fraud, deceit, or material
misrepresentation with respect to the Company;

(iii) Executive s recurrent use of alcohol or prescribed medications at work or
otherwise such that Executive s job performance is impaired or the use of any illegal
substances or drug such that, in the Company s sole discretion, Executive s job performance
is impaired;

(iv) Executive s embezzlement of Company assets or funds; or

(v) Executive commits any negligent or willful act or omission that causes material
detriment (by reason, without limitation, of financial exposure or loss, damage to
reputation or goodwill, or exposure to civil damages or criminal penalties or other
prosecutorial action by any governmental authority) to the Company or any parent or
subsidiary corporation thereof.

(c)  Termination Without Cause.  The Company may terminate Executive s employment at
any time for any reason other than for Cause by delivering a written termination notice to
Executive.

3 

(d)  Termination by Executive For a Termination Reason . Executive may terminate her
employment with the Company at any time for a Termination Reason (as hereinafter defined) by
delivering a written termination notice to the Company. For purposes of this Agreement,
 Termination Reason  shall mean any of the following:

(i) a material reduction by the Company in Executive s Base Salary or bonus eligibility
unless similar reductions apply to senior executives of the Company and its subsidiaries
generally;

(ii) the Company s principal executive offices shall be moved to a location outside the
Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas Metroplex; or

(iii) the assignment to Executive by the Company of duties materially inconsistent
with, or the material reduction of the powers and functions associated with, Executive s
positions, duties, responsibilities and status with the Company or a material adverse change
in Executive s titles or offices, unless such action is in lieu of termination by the
Company of Executive s employment for Executive s Disability pursuant to Section 4(f).

(e)  Termination by Executive Without a Termination Reason . Executive may terminate
her employment with the Company without a Termination Reason upon thirty (30) days  prior
written notice to the Company. In such instance, the Company may accelerate the effective
date of such termination, but Executive shall receive all compensation and benefits under
this Agreement for the full thirty (30) day notice period.

(f)  Termination Following Disability . In the event that, in the Company s sole
discretion, Executive becomes mentally or physically impaired or disabled such that she is
unable to perform her duties and responsibilities hereunder for a period of at least one
hundred twenty (120) days in the aggregate during any one hundred fifty (150) consecutive
day period (a  Disability Event ), the Company may terminate Executive s employment under
this Agreement by delivering a written termination notice to Executive.

(g)  Payments/Deductions.  Following any expiration or termination of the Term, and
in addition to any amounts owed pursuant to Section 5 hereof, the Company shall pay
Executive all amounts earned by Executive hereunder up to the date of such expiration or
termination. Executive agrees that any advances to Executive by the Company outstanding at
the time of the expiration or termination of the Term may be deducted from her wages,
including her final paycheck and/or any severance owed to Executive.

4 

5. 
       
      Rights of Executive Upon Termination . Subject to Executive s adherence to the terms
of this Agreement, including but not limited to the non-competition, no-hire/non-solicitation,
non-disclosure and non-disparagement provisions set forth in Sections 9, 10, 11 and 12,
Executive shall be entitled to receive the following benefits in the event her employment is
terminated pursuant to Section 4 above or the Company terminates Executive s employment in
connection with its election not to renew this Agreement for an additional Term as specified
in Section 1(b): 

(a)  Death . In the event that Executive s employment is terminated upon the
occurrence of her death as provided in Section 4(a), the Company shall continue to pay, in
accordance with its normal payroll procedures, the Base Salary to Executive s estate for a
period of twelve (12) months after the date of Executive s death. All unvested restricted
stock or units granted to Executive will be immediately forfeited and all unvested stock
options granted to Executive will be immediately terminated upon the date of Executive s
death and any vested stock options will remain exercisable for one (1) year after
Executive s date of death, subject to the earlier expiration of the term of such stock
option. For purposes of this Section 5(a) and elsewhere in this Agreement, Stock
Appreciation Rights shall be treated in the same manner as stock options.

(b)  Termination for Cause . In the event that Executive s employment is terminated
by the Company for Cause as provided in Section 4(b) Executive shall not thereafter be
entitled to any further compensation from the Company and all outstanding stock options,
whether or not vested, and unvested restricted stock and units shall be immediately
forfeited.

(c)  Termination By Non-Renewal Prior to Age 62, Without Cause or By Executive For a
Termination Reason . In the event that the Company terminates Executive s employment in
connection with the Company s election of non-renewal of the Term as provided in Section
1(b) prior to Executive attaining age 62 or without Cause as provided in Section 4(c) or
Executive terminates her employment for a Termination Reason as provided in Section 4(d),
then Executive shall be entitled to the following:

(i)  Severance . The Company shall pay to Executive (or Executive s estate if
Executive dies after termination) an amount equal to the sum of two (2) times Executive s
annual Base Salary as of the date of termination and two (2) times the average of the annual
incentive bonus amount earned by Executive with respect to the three fiscal year period
preceding the year in which this Agreement is terminated (or such shorter period as may
apply if this Agreement has been in effect for less than three years)(hereinafter, the
 Severance Amount  provided, however, that for purposes of this calculation, the
guaranteed minimum bonus provided in Section 3(b) for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2007
shall not be utilized and the actual bonus that would have been earned for such year shall
be utilized instead. The Severance Amount shall be payable in equal monthly installments
over a twenty-four (24) month period commencing with the month following the month during
which termination of Executive s employment occurs (hereinafter, the  Severance Period ).

5 

(ii)  Benefits . For the duration of the Severance Period (i.e., twenty-four
(24) months), Executive shall continue to receive the fringe benefits provided under Section
3(e)(i) hereof on the same basis as such benefits were provided during Executive s
employment hereunder, provided that the continued participation of Executive under any
benefit plan including, without limitation, group healthcare, dental and life insurance is
possible under the general terms and provisions of such plans. Such period of coverage
shall count against Executive s continuation of coverage period required under the
Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended ( COBRA ). All premium
payments paid by Executive for such continuation coverage during the Severance Period and
for any subsequent COBRA period shall be paid directly to the appropriate insurer or service
provider for such benefit (which may be the Company). If Executive s participation in any
such plan is barred, the Company shall arrange to provide Executive with benefits
substantially similar to those which Executive would otherwise have been entitled to receive
under such plan or, alternatively at the option of the Company, reimburse Executive for the
reasonable actual costs of purchasing in the marketplace substantially similar benefits;
provided, however, that in either case Executive shall pay to the Company, or provide a
credit against the Company s reimbursement obligation for, the amount equal to the premiums,
or portion thereof, that Executive was required to pay to maintain such benefits prior to
the date of termination of employment.

(iii)  Equity and Long-Term Incentive Awards . All unvested restricted stock or
units granted to Executive will be immediately forfeited and all unvested stock options
granted to Executive will be immediately terminated upon such termination of Executive s
employment and any vested stock options granted to Executive will remain exercisable for
three months after such termination of Executive s employment, subject to the earlier
expiration of the term of such stock option.

(iv)  Offset . The payments due and payable in accordance with Section 5(c)(i)
hereof shall be reduced by an amount equal to any amounts that Executive receives in
connection with any other employment or consultancy during the Severance Period; provided,
however, that such payments shall not be reduced by any amounts that Executive receives in
connection with director fees or BB Capital, Inc. income. However, any benefits received by
or available to Executive in connection with any other employment or consultancy that are
reasonably comparable to the benefits then being provided by the Company pursuant to Section
5(c)(ii) hereof, shall be deemed to be the equivalent thereof and shall terminate the
Company s responsibility to continue providing the benefits then being provided by the
Company pursuant to Section 5(c)(ii) hereof.

(d)  Termination By Non-Renewal After Age 62 . In the event that the Company
terminates Executive s employment in connection with the Company s election of non-renewal
of the Term as provided in Section 1(b) on or after Executive attaining age 62, Executive
shall be entitled to fifty percent (50%) of the Severance Amount payable in equal monthly
installments over a twelve (12) month period (the  Modified Severance Period ) commencing
with the month following the month during which termination of Executive s employment
occurs. In addition, the provisions of Sections 4(c)(ii), 4(c)(iii) and 4(c)(iv) shall
apply during the Modified Severance Period.

6 

(e)  Termination by Executive Without a Termination Reason.  In the event that
Executive s employment is terminated by Executive without a Termination Reason as provided
in Section 4(e), Executive shall not thereafter be entitled to any further compensation from
the Company and all outstanding unvested stock options and all unvested restricted stock and
units shall be immediately forfeited.

(f)  Disability . In the event that Executive s employment is terminated due to a
Disability Event as provided in Section 4(f), Executive shall be entitled to continue to
receive her salary and benefits (subject to the conditions regarding such benefits specified
in Section 5(c)(ii) and 5(c)(iv)) under Section 3 of this Agreement for a period of twelve
(12) months after the date of such termination. All unvested restricted stock or units
granted pursuant to Executive will be immediately forfeited and all unvested stock options
granted to Executive will be immediately terminated upon the date of such termination of
Executive s employment and any vested stock options will remain exercisable for one (1) year
after such termination of Executive s employment, subject to the earlier expiration of the
term of such stock option.

6. 
       
      Effect of Change of Control . 

(a) If within two (2) years following a Change of Control (as hereinafter defined),
Executive terminates her employment with the Company for Good Reason (as hereinafter
defined) or the Company terminates Executive s employment for any reason other than for
Cause (as defined in Section 4(b)) or a Disability Event, the Company shall pay to, and
provide for, Executive the following payments and benefits:

(i) An amount equal to three (3) times the sum of Executive s Base Salary and Target
Bonus as of the date of termination;

(ii) All benefits under the Company s various benefit plans, including group
healthcare, dental, and life for thirty-six (36) months from the date of termination,
provided that the continued participation of Executive is possible under the general terms
and provisions of such plans. If Executive s participation in any such plan is barred, the
Company shall arrange to provide Executive with benefits substantially similar to those
which Executive would otherwise have been entitled to receive under such plan or,
alternatively at the option of the Company, reimburse Executive for the reasonable actual
costs of purchasing in the marketplace substantially similar benefits; provided, however,
that in either case Executive shall pay to the Company, or provide a credit against the
Company s reimbursement obligation for, the amount equal to the premiums, or portion
thereof, that Executive was required to pay to maintain such benefits prior to the date of
termination of employment. Further, any insurance or other benefits and benefits coverage
provided pursuant hereto shall be limited and reduced to the extent reasonably comparable
coverage or benefits are provided by or available from any other employer of Executive; and

(iii) All unvested restricted stock or units granted to Executive and all unvested
stock options granted to Executive will be immediately vested. Further, all vested stock
options granted to Executive, including those vested by reason of the preceding sentence,

7 

will remain exercisable for ninety (90) days after such termination of Executive s
employment, subject to the earlier expiration of the term of such stock options.

(b)  Change of Control.  For purposes of this Agreement,  Change of Control  means
the earliest to occur of the following:

(i) any  person,  as such term is used in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 ( Person ), becomes a  beneficial owner,  as such term is used in Rule
13d-3 promulgated under that act, of 30% or more of the Voting Stock of the Company;

(ii) the majority of the Board consists of individuals other than  incumbent 
directors, which term means the members of the Board on the Effective Date; provided that
any person becoming a director subsequent to such date whose election or nomination for
election was supported by two-thirds of the directors who then comprised the incumbent
directors will be considered to be an incumbent director;

(iii) the Company adopts any plan of liquidation providing for the distribution of all
or substantially all of its assets;

(iv) all or substantially all of the assets or business of the Company is disposed of
pursuant to a merger, consolidation or other transaction (unless the stockholders of the
Company immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or other transaction beneficially
own, directly or indirectly, in substantially the same proportion as they owned the Voting
Stock of the Company, all of the Voting Stock or other ownership interests of the entity or
entities, if any, that succeed to the business of the Company); or

(v) the Company combines with another company and is the surviving corporation but,
immediately after the combination, the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to the
combination hold, directly or indirectly, 50% or less of the Voting Stock of the combined
company (there being excluded from the number of shares held by such stockholders, but not
from the Voting Stock of the combined company, any shares received by affiliates of such
other company in exchange for stock of such other company).

For purposes of the Change of Control definition,  Company  will include any entity that
succeeds to all or substantially all, of the business of the Company and  Voting Stock  will
mean securities of any class or classes having general voting power under ordinary
circumstances, in the absence of contingencies, to elect the directors of a corporation. 

(c)   Good Reason   shall mean any of the following actions taken by the Company
without Executive s written consent after a Change of Control:

(i) the assignment to Executive by the Company of duties inconsistent with, or the
reduction, other than due solely to the fact that the Company no longer is a publicly traded
Company, of the powers and functions associated with, Executive s position, duties,
responsibilities and status with the Company immediately prior to a Change of Control or
Potential Change of Control (as defined below), or a material adverse change

8 

in Executive s titles or offices as in effect immediately prior to a Change of Control
or Potential Change of Control, or any removal of Executive from or any failure to re-elect
Executive to any of such positions, except in connection with the termination of her
employment (A) by the Company for a Disability Event or Cause or as a result of Executive s
death or (B) by Executive other than for the reasons set forth in this Section 6(c);

(ii) a reduction by the Company in Executive s Base Salary as in effect on the date of
a Change of Control or Potential Change of Control;

(iii) the Company s principal executive offices shall be moved to a location outside
the Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas Metroplex area;

(iv) the Company shall require Executive to be based anywhere other than at the
Company s principal executive offices in the Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas Metroplex area, or if
Executive agrees to a relocation outside the area, the Company fails to reimburse Executive
for moving and all other expenses incurred with such move;

(v) the Company shall fail to continue in effect any Company-sponsored plan that is in
effect on the date of a Change of Control or Potential Change of Control (or replacement
plans therefore that in the aggregate provide the same or more favorable benefits) that
provides (A) incentive or bonus compensation, (B) reimbursement for reasonable expenses
incurred by Executive in connection with the performance of duties with the Company, and (C)
pension benefits such as Section 401(k) plan within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (the  Code 

(vi) any material breach by the Company of any provision of this Agreement; and

(vii) any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption of this Agreement by any
successor or assign of the Company effected in accordance with the provisions of this
Section 6.

(d) 
       
       Potential Change of Control   shall mean the earliest to occur of the following
events within six months prior to a Change of Control: 

(i) the Company enters into an agreement the consummation of which, or the approval by
stockholders of which, would constitute a Change of Control;

(ii) proxies for the election of members of the Board are solicited by any person other
than the Company;

(iii) any person (including, but not limited to, any individual partnership, joint
venture, corporation, association or trust) publicly announces an intention to take or to
consider taking actions which, if consummated, would constitute a Change of Control; or

9 

(iv) any other event occurs which is deemed to be a Potential Change of Control by the
Board and the Board adopts a resolution to the effect that a Potential Change of Control has
occurred.

(e) 
       
      Excise Tax . 

(i)  Gross-Up . In the event that the  Total Payments  (defined below) would be
subject to the  Excise Tax  (defined below) the Company shall pay to Executive an additional
amount (the  Gross-Up Payment ) such that after payment by Executive of all taxes (including
any Excise Tax) imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment and any interest or penalties imposed with
respect to such taxes, Executive retains from the Gross-Up Payment an amount equal to the
Excise Tax imposed upon the Total Payments.

(a) For purposes of determining whether any of the Total Payments will be subject to
the Excise Tax and the amount of such Excise Tax, (A) all  excess parachute
payments  within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(l) of the Code shall be treated as
subject to the Excise Tax unless, in the opinion of Tax Counsel, such excess
parachute payments (in whole or in part) represent reasonable compensation for
services actually rendered (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(4)(B) of the Code)
in excess of the base amount (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code)
allocable to such reasonable compensation, or are otherwise not subject to the
Excise Tax, and (B) the value of any noncash benefits or any deferred payment or
benefit shall be determined by the Auditor in accordance with the principles of
Sections 280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code. If the Auditor is prohibited by applicable
law or regulation from performing the duties assigned to it hereunder, then a
different auditor, acceptable to both the Company and Executive, shall be selected.
The fees and expenses of Tax Counsel and the Auditor shall be paid by the Company.
For purposes of determining the amount of the Gross-Up Payment, Executive shall be
deemed to pay federal income tax at the highest marginal rate of federal income
taxation in the calendar year in which the Gross-Up Payment is to be made and state
and local income taxes at the highest marginal rate of taxation in the state and
locality of Executive s residence on the date of termination (or if there is no date
of termination, then the date on which the Gross-Up Payment is calculated for
purposes of this Section), net of the maximum reduction in federal income taxes
which could be obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes.

(b) In the event that the Excise Tax is subsequently determined to be less than the
amount taken into account hereunder in calculating the Gross-Up Payment, Executive
shall repay to the Company, within five (5) business days following the time that
the amount of such reduction in the Excise Tax is finally determined, the portion of
the Gross-Up Payment attributable to such reduction. In the event that the Excise
Tax is determined to exceed the amount taken into account hereunder in calculating
the Gross-Up Payment (including by reason of any payment the existence or amount of
which cannot be determined at the time of the Gross-Up Payment), the Company shall
make an additional Gross-Up Payment in respect of such excess within five (5)
business days following the time that the amount of

10 

such excess is finally determined. Executive and the Company shall each reasonably
cooperate with the other in connection with any administrative or judicial
proceedings concerning the existence or amount of liability for Excise Tax with
respect to the Total Payments.

(ii)  Other Terms . At the time that payments are made under Section 5(c) or 6(a)
of this Agreement, if requested by Executive, the Company shall provide Executive with a
written statement setting forth the manner in which such payments were calculated and the
basis for such calculations including, without limitation, any opinions, or other advice the
Company has received from Tax Counsel, the Auditor or other advisors or consultants (and all
such opinions or advice shall be in writing, shall be attached to the statement and shall
expressly state that Executive may rely thereon). Executive and the Company shall each
reasonably cooperate with the other in connection with any administrative or judicial
proceeding concerning the existence or amount of liability for Excise Tax with respect to
the Total Payments. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Section 6(e)
shall be interpreted (and, if determined by the Company to be necessary, reformed) to the
extent necessary to fully comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; provided that the Corporation
agrees to maintain, to the maximum extent practicable, the original intent and economic
benefit to the Executive of the applicable provision without violating the provisions of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act.

(iii)  Definitions .   Total Payments   shall mean the payments and
benefits received or to be received by Executive, whether pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement or any other plan, arrangement or agreement that constitute  parachute payments 
as defined in Section 280G of the Code (excluding the Gross-Up
Payment) ( Parachute
Payments ). For this purposes, all of the payments and benefits received by Executive or to
be received by Executive in connection with a Change of Control or in connection with
Executive s termination of employment in respect of a Change of Control (whether pursuant to
the terms of this Agreement or any other plan, arrangement or agreement with the Company,
and Person whose actions result in a Change of Control or any Person affiliated with Company
or such Person shall be treated as Parachute Payments unless, in the opinion of tax counsel
( Tax Counsel ) reasonably acceptable to Executive and selected by the accounting firm which
was, immediately prior to the Change of Control, the Company s independent auditor (the
 Auditor ), such payments or benefits (in whole or in part) do not constitute Parachute
Payments, including by reason of Section 280G(b)(4)(A) of the Code.   Excise Tax  
shall mean the excise tax imposed under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended (the  Code ).

(a) Unless expressly provided otherwise, all of the payments due to Executive under Sections
5 or 6 above shall be made within fifteen (15) days following the date of termination;

(b) Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, if the payment of any
compensation or benefit hereunder (including, without limitation, any severance benefit)
would be subject to additional taxes and interest under Section 409A of the Code

11 

because the timing of such payment is not delayed as provided in Section 409A(a)(2)(B) of
the Code, then any such payment or benefit that Executive would otherwise be entitled to
during the first six months following the date of Executive s termination of employment
shall be accumulated and paid or provided, as applicable, on the date that is six months and
one day after the date of Executive s termination of employment (or if such date does not
fall on a business day of the Company, the next following business day of the Company), or
such earlier date upon which such amount can be paid or provided under Section 409A of the
Code without being subject to such additional taxes and interest. The preceding sentence
shall apply only to the extent required to avoid Executive s incurrence of any additional
tax or interest under Section 409A of the Code or the regulations or Treasury guidance
promulgated thereunder; and

(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if any payment, distribution
or provision of a benefit by the Company to or for the benefit of Executive, whether paid or
payable, distributed or distributable or provided or to be provided pursuant to the terms of
this Agreement or otherwise (a  Payment ), would be subject to an additional tax pursuant to
Section 409A of the Code that would not have been imposed absent such Payment, or any
interest or penalties with respect to such additional tax or otherwise imposed pursuant to
Section 409A of the Code (such additional tax, together with any such interest or penalties,
are hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Additional Taxes ), the Company shall pay
to Executive an additional payment (a  409A Gross-up Payment ) in an amount such that after
payment by Executive of all Additional Taxes, including any income taxes and Additional
Taxes imposed on any 409A Gross-up Payment, Executive retains an amount of the 409A Gross-up
Payment (taking into account any similar gross-up payments to Executive under any stock
incentive or other benefit plan or program of the Company) equal to the Additional Taxes
imposed upon the Payments. The Company and Executive shall make an initial determination as
to whether a 409A Gross-up Payment is required and the amount of any such 409A Gross-up
Payment. Executive shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue
Service which, if successful, would require the Company to make a 409A Gross-up Payment (or
a 409A Gross-up Payment in excess of that, if any, initially determined by the Company and
Executive) within ten business days after the receipt of such claim. The Company shall
notify Executive in writing at least ten business days prior to the due date of any response
required with respect to such claim if it plans to contest the claim. If the Company
decides to contest such claim, Executive shall cooperate fully with the Company in such
action; provided, however, the Company shall bear and pay directly or indirectly all costs
and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such
action and shall indemnify and hold Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any
Additional Taxes or income tax, including interest and penalties with respect thereto,
imposed as a result of the Company s action. If, as a result of the Company s action with
respect to a claim, Executive receives a refund of any amount paid by the Company with
respect to such claim, Executive shall promptly pay such refund to the Company. If the
Company fails to timely notify Executive whether it will contest such claim or the Company
determines not to contest such claim, then the Company shall immediately pay to Executive
the portion of such claim, if any, which it has not previously paid to Executive.

12 

8. 
       
      Complete Release . Executive acknowledges and agrees that she will not receive any of
the payments described in Sections 5 or 6 above unless Executive signs and returns to the
Company a full and complete release of any and all claims related to her employment or
termination of employment that Executive or her estate, heirs or assigns may have against the
Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates and its and their officers, directors, employees and
agents in a form acceptable to and provided by the Company at or around the time of
Executive s termination. 

9. 
       
      Non-Competition . As a material inducement for the Company s promise to provide the
trade secrets and confidential and proprietary information described in Section 11 below,
Executive agrees that during the Term and for a period of three (3) years from the date of
cessation or termination of Executive s employment with the Company for any reason whatsoever,
she will not, directly or indirectly, compete with the Company by providing services relating
to retail sales of jewelry to any other person, partnership, association, corporation, or
other entity that is in a  Competing Business.  As used herein, a  Competing Business  is any
business that engages in whole or in material part in the retail sale of jewelry in the United
States, Canada and/or Puerto Rico, including, but not limited to, specialty jewelry retailers
and other retailers having jewelry divisions or departments. The restrictions contained in
this Section 9 shall be tolled on a day-for-day basis for each day during which Executive
participates in any activity in violation of such restrictions. The parties agree that the
above restrictions on competition are completely severable and independent agreements
supported by good and valuable consideration and, as such, shall survive the termination of
this Agreement for whatever reason. The parties further agree that any invalidity or
unenforceability of any one or more of such restrictions on competition shall not render
invalid or unenforceable any remaining restrictions on competition. Additionally, should a
court of competent jurisdiction determine that the scope of any provision of this Section 9 is
too broad to be enforced as written, the parties intend that the court reform the provision to
such narrower scope as it determines to be reasonable and enforceable. 

10. 
       
      No Hire/Non-Solicitation of Employees . During the Term and for a period of three (3)
years after the termination or cessation of her employment with the Company for any reason
whatsoever, Executive shall not, on her own behalf or on behalf of any other person,
partnership, association, corporation, or other entity, (a) directly, indirectly, or through a
third party hire, cause to be hired or solicit any employee of the Company or its subsidiaries
or affiliates or (b) in any manner attempt to influence or induce any employee of the Company
or its subsidiaries or affiliates to leave the employment of the Company or its subsidiaries
or affiliates, nor shall she use or disclose to any person, partnership, association,
corporation or other entity any information obtained concerning the names and addresses of the
Company s employees. The restrictions contained in this Section 10 shall be tolled on a
day-for-day basis for each day during which Executive participates in any activity in
violation of such restrictions. The parties agree that the above restrictions on hiring and
solicitation are completely severable and independent agreements supported by good and
valuable consideration and, as such, shall survive the termination of this Agreement for
whatever reason. The parties further agree that any invalidity or unenforceability of any one
or more of such restrictions on hiring and solicitation shall not render invalid or
unenforceable any remaining restrictions or hiring 

13 

and solicitation. Additionally, should a court of competent jurisdiction determine that the
scope of any provision of this Section 10 is too broad to be enforced as written, the
parties intend that the court reform the provision to such narrower scope as it determines
to be reasonable and enforceable. 

11. 
       
      Nondisclosure of Trade Secrets . The Company promises to disclose to Executive and
Executive acknowledges that in and as a result of her employment with the Company, she will
receive, make use of, acquire, have access to and/or become familiar with various trade
secrets and proprietary and confidential information of the Company, its subsidiaries and
affiliates, including, but not limited to, processes, computer programs, compilations of
information, records, financial information, sales reports, sales procedures, customer
requirements, pricing techniques, customer lists, methods of doing business, identities,
locations, performance and compensation levels of employees and other confidential information
which are owned by the Company, its subsidiaries and/or affiliates and regularly used in the
operation of its business, and as to which the Company, its subsidiaries and/or affiliates
take precautions to prevent dissemination to persons other than certain directors, officers
and employees (collectively,  Trade Secrets ). Executive acknowledges and agrees that the
Trade Secrets: 

(i) are secret and not known in the industry;

(ii) give the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates an advantage over competitors
who do not know or use the Trade Secrets;

(iii) are of such value and nature as to make it reasonable and necessary to protect
and preserve the confidentiality and secrecy of the Trade Secrets; and

(iv) are valuable, special and unique assets of the Company or its subsidiaries or
affiliates, the disclosure of which could cause substantial injury and loss of profits and
goodwill to the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates.

Executive promises not to use in any way or disclose any of the Trade Secrets, directly
or indirectly, either during or after the Term, except as required in the course of her
employment under this Agreement, if required in connection with a judicial or administrative
proceeding, or if the information becomes public knowledge other than as a result of an
unauthorized disclosure by Executive. All files, records, documents, information, data
compilations and similar items containing non-public and confidential information relating
to the business of the Company, whether prepared by Executive or otherwise coming into her
possession, will remain the exclusive property of the Company and may not be removed from
the premises of the Company under any circumstances without the prior written consent of the
Company (except in the ordinary course of business during Executive s period of active
employment under this Agreement), and in any event must be promptly delivered to the Company
upon termination of Executive s employment with the Company. Executive agrees that upon her
receipt of any subpoena, process or other request to produce or divulge, directly or
indirectly, any Trade Secrets to any entity, agency, tribunal or person, whether received
during or after the term of Executive s employment with the Company, Executive shall timely
notify and promptly

14 

provide a copy of the subpoena, process or other request to the Company. For this
purpose, Executive irrevocably nominates and appoints the Company (including any attorney
retained by the Company), as her true and lawful attorney-in-fact, to act in Executive s
name, place and stead to perform any reasonable and prudent act that Executive might perform
to defend and protect against any disclosure of any Trade Secrets.

The parties agree that the above restrictions on confidentiality and disclosure are
completely severable and independent agreements supported by good and valuable consideration
and, as such, shall survive the termination of this Agreement for whatever reason. The
parties further agree that any invalidity or unenforceability of any one or more of such
restrictions on confidentiality and disclosure shall not render invalid or unenforceable any
remaining restrictions on confidentiality and disclosure. Additionally, should a court of
competent jurisdiction determine that the scope of any provision of this Section 11 is too
broad to be enforced as written, the parties intend that the court reform the provision to
such narrower scope as it determines to be reasonable and enforceable.

12. 
       
      Non-Disparagement . Executive expressly acknowledges, agrees, and covenants that she
will not make any public or private statements, comments, or communications in any form, oral,
written, or electronic (all of the foregoing, for purposes of this paragraph,
 Communications ), which in any way could constitute libel, slander, or disparagement of the
Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates or parent, its and/or their employees, officers, and/or
directors, or which may be considered to be derogatory or detrimental to its or their good
name or business; provided, however, that the terms of this paragraph shall not (a) apply to
Communications between Executive and her spouse, clergy, or attorneys, which are subject to a
claim of privilege existing under common law, statute, or rule of procedure; (b) apply to
Communications required by law or made in response to a valid subpoena or other lawful order
compelling Executive to provide testimony or information; provided, however, that in
responding to a valid subpoena or other lawful order, Executive agrees to provide the Company
with advance notice and an opportunity to seek a protective order or other safeguard for its
confidential information; (c) be construed to inhibit or limit Executive s ability to initiate
or cooperate with any investigation by a governmental or regulatory agency or official.
Executive specifically agrees not to issue any public statement concerning her employment at
Zale and/or the cessation of such employment; or (d) prohibit Executive from responding to any
derogatory or inaccurate statement contained in a press release of the Company concerning
Executive for the purpose of correcting such inaccuracies or defending her reputation. 

13. 
       
      Executive Representations and Agreements . Executive agrees that Executive and the
Company are engaged in a highly competitive business and, due to Executive s position with the
Company and the nature of Executive s work, Executive s engaging in any business which is
competitive with that of the Company will cause the Company great and irreparable harm.
Executive represents and warrants that the time, scope and geographic area restricted by the
foregoing Sections 9, 10, 11, and 12 pertaining to no hire/non-solicitation, non-competition,
confidentiality and nondisclosure, and non-disparagement are reasonable, that the enforcement
of the restrictions contained in 

15 

such Sections would not be unduly burdensome to Executive, and that Executive will be able
to earn a reasonable living while abiding by the terms included herein. Executive agrees
that the restraints created by the covenants in Sections 9, 10, 11, and 12 pertaining to no
hire/non-solicitation, non-competition, confidentiality and nondisclosure, and
non-disparagement are no greater than necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the
Company, including its confidential business or proprietary information and trade secrets,
including but not limited to, the Trade Secrets. Similarly, Executive agrees that the need
of the Company for the protection afforded by the covenants of Sections 9, 10, 11, and 12
pertaining to no hire/non-solicitation, non-competition, confidentiality and nondisclosure,
and non-disparagement are not outweighed by either the hardship to Executive or any injury
likely to the public. Executive agrees that any breach by her of Sections 9, 10, 11, and 12
pertaining to no hire/non-solicitation, non-competition, confidentiality and nondisclosure
and non-disparagement will entitle the Company to discontinue any payments specified in
Sections 3, 5 or 6 above, for which Executive might be eligible based on the terms of those
Sections and to any other remedy available at law or in equity. Notwithstanding the
suspension or discontinuation of any such payments, Executive agrees that the Company is
entitled to insist on full compliance by Executive with the full terms, including time
periods, described in her promises not to hire/solicit, compete, disclose confidential
information or Trade Secrets or disparage. Any delay by the Company in discontinuing
payment shall not be construed as a waiver of any rights to discontinue payment. 

14. 
       
      Severability . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid or
unenforceable under present or future laws effective during the term of this Agreement, such
provision shall be fully severable and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if
such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision never constituted a part of this Agreement;
and the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall
not be affected by the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision or by its severance here
from. Furthermore, in lieu of such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision, there shall be
added as part of this Agreement, a provision as similar in its terms to such illegal, invalid
or enforceable provision as may be possible and be legal, valid and enforceable. 

16 

(a) The parties agree that any controversy or claim (including all claims pursuant to common
and statutory law) relating to this Agreement or arising out of Executive s employment with
the Company, shall be resolved exclusively through arbitration pursuant to the National
Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes of the American Arbitration Association
( AAA ). Any such arbitration proceeding shall take place in Dallas County, Texas. All
disputes shall be resolved by a single arbitrator. The arbitrator will have the authority
to award the same remedies, damages and costs that a court could award. The arbitrator
shall issue a reasoned award explaining the decision, the reasons for the decision and any
damages awarded. The arbitrator s decision will be final and binding. The judgment on the
award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.
This provision can be enforced under the Federal Arbitration Act.

(b) As the sole exception to the exclusive and binding nature of the arbitration commitment
set forth above, Executive and the Company agree that the Company shall have the right to
initiate an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in order to request temporary,
preliminary and permanent injunctive or other equitable relief, including, without
limitation, specific performance, to enforce the terms of Sections 9, 10, 11, 12 or 13,
above, without the necessity of proving inadequacy of legal remedies or irreparable harm or
posting bond. However, nothing in this section should be construed to constitute a waiver of
the parties  rights and obligations to arbitrate regarding matters other than those
specifically addressed in this paragraph.

(c) Should a court of competent jurisdiction determine that the scope of any provision of
this Section 15 is too broad to be enforced as written, the parties intend that the court
reform the provision to such narrower scope as it determines to be reasonable and
enforceable.

16. 
       
      Survival . Executive acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement, including but not
limited to Sections 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, and 17(c), shall survive the termination of
Executive s employment under this Agreement for whatever reason. The existence of any claim
or cause of action of Executive against the Company, whether predicated on this Agreement or
otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of the covenants
of Executive contained in this Agreement, including but not limited to those contained in
Sections 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and 15. 

17. 
       
      Miscellaneous . 

(a) 
       
      Notices . Any notices, consents, demands, requests, approvals and other
communications to be given under this Agreement by either party to the other must be in
writing and must be either: 

(i) personally delivered;

(ii) mailed by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid with return receipt
requested;

17 

(iii) delivered by overnight express delivery service or same-day local courier
service; or

(iv) delivered by telex or facsimile transmission, to the address set forth below, or
to such other address as may be designated by the parties from time to time in accordance
with this Section 17:

Notices delivered personally or by overnight express delivery service or by local
courier service are deemed given as of actual receipt. Notices mailed within the
continental United States are deemed given three (3) business days after mailing. Notices
delivered by telex or facsimile transmission are deemed given upon receipt by the sender of
the answer back (in the case of a telex) or transmission confirmation (in the case of a
facsimile transmission).

(b)  Entire Agreement . This Agreement supersedes any and all other agreements,
either oral or written, between the parties with respect to the subject matter of this
Agreement and contains all of the covenants and agreements between the parties with respect
to the subject matter of this Agreement.

(c)  Modification . No change or modification of this Agreement is valid or binding
upon the parties, nor will any waiver of any term or condition in the future be so binding,
unless the change or modification or waiver is in writing and signed by the parties to this
Agreement.

(d)  Governing Law and Venue . The parties acknowledge and agree that this Agreement
and the obligations and undertakings of the parties under this Agreement will be performable
in Irving, Dallas County, Texas. This Agreement is governed by, and construed in accordance
with, the laws of the State of Texas. If any action is brought to enforce or interpret this
Agreement, venue for the action will be in Dallas County, Texas.

(e)  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which
constitutes an original, but all of which constitutes one document.

(f)  Costs . If any action at law or in equity is necessary to enforce or interpret
the terms of this Agreement, each party shall bear its own costs and expenses unless
Executive prevails on at least one major issue, in which case Executive s costs shall be
borne by the Company.

18 

(g)  Estate . If Executive dies prior to the expiration of the Term or during a
period when monies are owing to her, any monies that may be due her from the Company under
this Agreement as of the date of her death shall be paid to her estate and as when otherwise
payable.

(h)  Assignment . The Company shall have the right to assign this Agreement to its
successors or assigns. The terms  successors  and  assigns  shall include any person,
corporation, partnership or other entity that buys all or substantially all of the Company s
assets or all of its stock, or with which the Company merges or consolidates. The rights,
duties and benefits to Executive hereunder are personal to her, and no such right or benefit
may be assigned by her.

(i)  Binding Effect . This Agreement is binding upon the parties hereto, together
with their respective executors, administrators, successors, personal representatives, heirs
and permitted assigns.

(j)  Waiver of Breach . The waiver by the Company or Executive of a breach of any
provision of this Agreement by Executive or the Company may not operate or be construed as a
waiver of any subsequent breach.

Signature Page Follows 

19 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first above
written.

EXECUTIVE 

By:   
     /s/ Mary Elizabeth Burton

Mary Elizabeth Burton  

ZALE CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/ Hilary Molay

Its:                     Hilary Molay  

Senior Vice President   General Counsel  

20 

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.13>
 8
 d40232exv10w13.htm
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - GILBERT P. HOLLANDER

exv10w13 

EXHIBIT 10.13

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  

THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ( Agreement ), dated as of January 5, 2005, is by and between Zale
Delaware, Inc. (the    Company   ), and Gilbert P. Hollander (the    Executive   ).

WHEREAS, the Executive and the Company desire to enter into an employment agreement which sets
forth the terms and conditions of the Executive s employment with the Company.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recital, of the mutual covenants set forth
herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

1.  Employment . The Executive agrees to continue in the employment of the Company, and
the Company agrees to employ the Executive, on the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement. The Executive agrees during the Term (as hereinafter defined) to devote his full time
efforts, skills and abilities to the performance of his duties as stated in this Agreement and to
the furtherance of the Company s business. As consideration for this Agreement and specifically in
consideration for the promises described in Section 8, the Company promises to provide the
Executive with confidential and proprietary information and trade secrets, the receipt and
sufficiency of which the Executive acknowledges, including, without limitation, Trade Secrets (as
defined below) belonging to the Company for use in the performance of the Executive s duties for
the Company. The Executive s job title will be Senior Vice President of the Company and President
of the Piercing Pagoda Division of the Company and his duties will be those designated from time to
time by the Chief Executive Officer (   CEO   ) and/or Board of Directors of the Company
(   Board   ). The Executive further agrees to serve, without additional compensation, as an
officer or director, or both, of any subsidiary, division or affiliate of the Company or any other
entity in which the Company holds an equity interest, provided, however, that (a) the Company shall
indemnify the Executive from liabilities in connection with serving in any such position to the
same extent as his indemnification rights pursuant to the Company s Certificate of Incorporation,
Bylaws and applicable Delaware law, and (b) such other position shall not materially detract from
the responsibilities of the Executive pursuant to this Section 1 or his ability to perform such
responsibilities.

2.  Compensation .

(a)  Base Salary . During the term of the Executive s employment with the Company
pursuant to this Agreement, the Company shall pay to the Executive as compensation for his services
an annual base salary of not less than $240,000 payable bi-weekly (   Base Salary   ). The
Executive s Base Salary will be payable in arrears in accordance with the Company s normal payroll
procedures and will be reviewed annually and subject to adjustment at the discretion of the CEO
and/or the Board or an authorized committee or representative thereof.

(b)  Incentive Bonus . The Executive s incentive compensation program during the term
of his employment under this Agreement shall be determined under the Company s Executive
Bonus Program, established by the Board in its discretion. The Executive is eligible to
receive up to 75% of his Base Salary in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Executive
Bonus Program.

(c)  Vacation . The Executive shall be entitled to a reasonable vacation of four (4)
paid weeks each fiscal year during the term of his employment under this Agreement in accordance
with the Company s vacation policy. Any additional vacation shall be approved in the sole
discretion of the Executive s supervisor.

(d)  Executive Perquisites . The Executive shall be entitled during the term of his
employment under this Agreement to receive such executive perquisites and fringe and other benefits
as are provided to similarly situated executives and their families under any of the Company s
plans and/or programs in effect from time to time and such other benefits as are customarily
available to executives of the Company and their families.

(e)  Tax Withholding . The Company has the right to deduct from any compensation
payable to the Executive under this Agreement social security (FICA) taxes and all federal, state,
municipal or other such taxes or charges as may now be in effect or that may hereafter be enacted
or required.

3.  Term . Unless sooner terminated pursuant to Section 4 of this Agreement, the term
of the Executive s employment under this Agreement shall commence as of the date hereof and shall
continue for two and one half (2 1/2) years thereafter up to and including July 31, 2007 (the
   Term   ). Following the expiration of the Term, the Executive s employment shall continue
at-will unless a new employment agreement is negotiated and executed.

4.  Early Termination . The Term may be terminated prior to the expiration date
specified in Section 3 under the following circumstances:

(a)  Death . The Executive s employment under this Agreement
shall terminate upon the death of the Executive.

(b)  Termination for Cause . The Company may terminate the Executive s employment at
any time for  Cause  (as hereinafter defined) by delivering a written termination notice to the
Executive. For purposes of this Agreement,  Cause  shall mean any of the following:

(i) the Executive is convicted of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude;

(ii) the Executive commits an act constituting fraud, deceit or material
misrepresentation with respect to the Company;

(iii) the Executive embezzles funds or assets from the Company;

-2- 

(iv) the Executive s use of any alcoholic, controlled or illegal substance or drug at
work or otherwise such that, in the Company s sole discretion, the Executive s job
performance is impaired;

(v) in the Company s sole discretion, the Executive commits any negligent or willful
act or omission in the performance of his duties or the exercise of his responsibilities; or

(vi) in the Company s sole discretion, the Executive commits any negligent or willful
act or omission that causes damage (by reason, without limitation, of financial exposure or
loss, damage to reputation or goodwill, or exposure to civil or criminal penalties or other
prosecutorial action by any governmental authority) to the Company or any parent or
subsidiary corporation thereof.

or

(c)  Termination Without Cause . The Company may also terminate the Executive s
employment at any time for any reason other than for Cause by delivering a written termination
notice to the Executive.

(d)  Termination by the Executive . The Executive may terminate his employment at any
time by delivering a written termination notice to the Company and such termination shall be deemed
a  Termination Reason  for any of the following reasons:

(i) a material reduction by the Company in the Executive s Base Salary unless such
reduction is the result of (A) a business judgment made by the Company in its sole
discretion, or (B) the Executive s failure to meet pre-established and objective performance
criteria;

(ii) Company s principal executive offices shall be moved to a location outside the
Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas Metroplex area or the Executive is required to be based anywhere
other than the Company s principal executive offices; and

(iii) the assignment to the Executive by the Company of duties materially inconsistent
with, or the material reduction of the powers and functions associated with, the Executive s
position, duties, responsibilities and status with the Company or a material adverse change
in the Executive s titles or offices, unless such action is the result of the Executive s
failure to meet preestablished and objective performance criteria, or in lieu of termination
by the Company of the Executive s employment for the Executive s Disability pursuant to
Section 4(e) below.

(e)  Termination Following Disability . In the event that in the Company s sole
discretion, the Executive becomes mentally or physically impaired or disabled and is unable to
perform his duties and responsibilities hereunder for a period of at least one hundred twenty (120)
days in the aggregate during any one hundred fifty (150) consecutive day period (a  Disability
Event ), the Company may terminate the Executive s employment under this Agreement by delivering a
written termination notice to the Executive.

-3- 

(f)  Payments/Deductions . Following any expiration or termination of the Executive s
employment under this Agreement, and in addition to any amounts owed pursuant to Section 5 hereof,
the Company shall pay to the Executive all amounts earned by the Executive
hereunder up to the date of such expiration or termination. The Executive agrees that any
advances to the Executive by the Company outstanding at the time of the expiration or termination
of the Executive s employment under this Agreement may be deducted from his wages, including his
final paycheck and/or any severance owed to Executive.

5.  Rights of Executive Upon Termination.  Subject to the Executive s adherence to the
terms of this Agreement, including but not limited to the non-competition, no-hire/non-solicitation
and non-disclosure provisions set forth below, the Executive shall be entitled to receive the
following benefits in the event his employment is terminated pursuant to Section 4 above prior to
the expiration of the Term specified in Section 3 above.

(a)  Death . In the event that the Executive s employment is terminated upon the
occurrence of his death as provided in Section 4(a), the Company shall continue to pay, in
accordance with its normal payroll procedures, the Base Salary to the Executive s estate for a
period of twelve (12) months after the date of the Executive s death.

(b)  Termination for Cause . In the event that the Executive s employment is terminated
by the Company for Cause as provided in Section 4(b) or by the Executive without a  Termination
Reason  as provided in Section 4(d), the Executive shall not thereafter be entitled to any further
compensation from the Company.

(c)  Termination without Cause or by the Executive . In the event the Company
terminates the Executive s employment without Cause as provided in Section 4(c) or the Executive
terminates his employment for a  Termination Reason  as provided in Sections 4(d)(i), 4(d)(ii) or
4(d)(iii), then the Executive shall be entitled to the following:

(i)  Severance . The Company shall continue to pay (in accordance with its
normal payroll procedures) the Base Salary to the Executive (or the Executive s estate if
the Executive dies after termination of employment) for the greater of (i) the remainder of
the Term or (ii) the period for which the Executive would be entitled to severance under the
Company s severance policy in existence at the time of the Executive s termination
(   Severance Period   ).

(ii)  Benefits . During the first twelve (12) months of the Severance Period or
if the Severance Period is less than twelve (12) months, until the end of the Severance
Period, the Executive shall continue to receive the fringe benefits provided under Sections
2(b) and 2(d) hereof, provided that the continued participation of the Executive under any
benefit plan including, without limitation, group healthcare, dental and life insurance is
possible under the general terms and provisions of such plans. If the Executive s
participation in any such plan is barred, the Company shall arrange to provide the Executive
with benefits substantially similar to those which the Executive would otherwise have been
entitled to receive under such plan or, alternatively at the option of the Company,
reimburse the Executive for the reasonable actual costs of purchasing in the marketplace
substantially similar benefits; provided, however, that in either case the Executive shall
pay to the

-4- 

Company, or provide a credit against the Company s reimbursement obligation for,
the amount equal to the premiums, or portion thereof, that the Executive was required to pay
to maintain such benefits prior to the date of
termination of employment. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein,
the Executive shall be entitled to participate in the Company s Executive Car Program in
effect for the Executive immediately prior to the Severance Period only until the earlier of
(x) the second anniversary of the Executive s then current car lease, or (y) the end of the
Severance Period. The Executive shall return any Company vehicle provided to him under the
Executive Car Program to the Company or its designee upon the expiration of his Executive
Car Program benefits as described in the foregoing sentence.

(iii)  Offset . The payments which would have been due and payable in accordance
with Section 5(c)(i) hereof shall be reduced by an amount equal to any amounts that the
Executive receives in connection with any other employment during the Severance Period. Any
fringe benefits received by or available to the Executive in connection with any other
employment that are reasonably comparable, but not necessarily as financially or otherwise
beneficial to the Executive as the fringe benefits then being provided by the Company
pursuant to Section 5(c)(ii) hereof, shall be deemed to be the equivalent thereof and shall
terminate the Company s responsibility to continue providing the fringe benefits then being
provided by the Company pursuant to Section 5(c)(ii) hereof.

(d)  Termination Following Disability . In the event that the Executive s employment is
terminated due to a Disability Event as provided in Section 4(e), the Executive shall be entitled
to continue to receive his salary and benefits (subject to the conditions regarding such benefits
specified in Section 5(c)(ii) and 5(c)(iii) above) under Section 2 of this Agreement for a period
of twelve (12) months after the date of such termination.

(e)  Complete Compensation . Except as specifically provided for in this Section 5 and
Section 4(f) above, the Executive shall be entitled to no additional salary, benefits or other
compensation following the termination of his employment.

6.  Effect of Change of Control .

(a) If within two (2) years following a  Change of Control  (as hereinafter defined), the
Executive terminates his employment with the Company for Good Reason (as hereinafter defined) or
the Company terminates the Executive s employment for any reason other than Cause or disability,
the Company shall pay to the Executive:

(i) an amount equal to three (3) times the Executive s Base Salary as of the date of
termination;

(ii) an amount equal to three (3) times the average annual cash bonus paid to the
Executive for the two (2) fiscal years immediately preceding the date of termination;

(iii) all benefits under the Company s various benefit plans, including group
healthcare, dental ,  life and the Company s Executive Car Program for the period equal to
thirty-six (36) months from the date of termination, provided that the continued
participation

-5- 

of the Executive is possible under the general terms and provisions of such
plans. If the Executive s participation in any such plan is barred, the Company shall
arrange to provide the
Executive with benefits substantially similar to those which the Executive would
otherwise have been entitled to receive under such plan or, alternatively at the option of
the Company, reimburse the Executive for the reasonable actual costs of purchasing in the
marketplace substantially similar benefits; provided, however, that in either case the
Executive shall pay to the Company, or provide a credit against the Company s reimbursement
obligation for, the amount equal to the premiums, or portion thereof, that the Executive was
required to pay to maintain such benefits prior to the date of termination of employment.
Further, any insurance or other benefits and benefits coverage provided pursuant hereto
shall be limited and reduced to the extent such coverage or benefits are   otherwise
provided by or available from any other employer of the Executive; and

(iv) a lump sum payment equal to the actuarial equivalent (determined by the Company in
good faith with assistance of its accountants or actuaries), of the benefit which would have
accrued under the Zale Delaware, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
(   SERP   ) if:

(1) the Executive remained a participant in the SERP for the three (3) year
period commencing on the first day of the SERP s plan year (   Plan Year   ) in
which the Executive s employment with the Company terminated (   Measurement
Period   

(2) during each Plan Year in the Measurement Period the Executive earned
benefit points equal to the highest number of the benefit points earned by such
Executive in a Plan Year during the three (3) year period ending on the last day of
the Plan Year immediately preceding the Plan Year in which his employment with the
Company terminated; and

(3) the Executive s final average pay during the Measurement Period is the
greater of his monthly Base Salary on the date of (a) a Potential Change of Control,
(b) the Change of Control or (c) the date of his termination of employment.

(b)   Change of Control   shall mean the date as of which:

(i) there shall be consummated:

(1) any consolidation or merger of the Company in which the Company is not the
continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which shares of the Company s
common stock would be converted into cash, securities or other property, other than
a merger of the Company in which the holders of the Company s common stock
immediately prior to the merger have the same proportionate ownership of common
stock of the surviving corporation immediately after the merger; or

(2) any sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series
of related transactions) of all, or substantially all, of the assets of the Company;

-6- 

(ii) the stockholders of the Company approve any plan or proposal for the liquidation
or dissolution of the Company;

(iii) any person (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (   Exchange Act   )), shall become the beneficial
owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of 30% of the Company s
outstanding common stock; or

(iv) during any period of two (2) consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning
of such period constitute the entire board of directors of the Company shall cease for any
reason to constitute a majority thereof unless the election, or the nomination for election
by the Company s stockholders, of each new director was approved by a vote of at least
two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the
period.

(c)   Good Reason   shall mean any of the following actions taken by the Company without
the Executive s written consent after a Change of Control:

(i) the assignment to the Executive by the Company of duties materially inconsistent
with, or the material reduction of the powers and functions associated with, the Executive s
position, duties, responsibilities and status with the Company immediately prior to a Change
of Control or Potential Change of Control (as defined below), or a material adverse change
in the Executive s titles or offices as in effect immediately prior to a Change of Control
or Potential Change of Control, or any removal of the Executive from or any failure to
re-elect the Executive to any of such positions, except in connection with the termination
of his employment (A) by the Company for Disability or Cause or as a result of the
Executive s death or (B) by the Executive other than for the reasons set forth in this
section (6)(c)(i)-(vii) ; 

(ii) a reduction by the Company in the Executive s Base Salary as in effect on the date
of a Change of Control or Potential Change of Control;

(iii) the Company s principal executive offices shall be moved to a location outside
the Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas Metroplex area;

(iv) the Company shall require the Executive to be based anywhere other than at the
Company s principal executive offices or the location where the Executive is based on the
date of a Change of Control or Potential Change of Control, or if the Executive agrees to
such relocation, the Company fails to reimburse the Executive for moving and all other
expenses incurred with such move;

(v) the Company shall fail to continue in effect any Company-sponsored plan that is in
effect on the date of a Change of Control or Potential Change of Control, that provides (A)
incentive or bonus compensation, (B) reimbursement for reasonable expenses incurred by the
Executive in connection with the performance of duties with the Company, and (C) pension
benefits such as a Code Section 401(k) plan;

-7- 

(vi) any material breach by the Company of any provision of this Agreement; and

(vii) any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption of this Agreement by any
successor or assign of the Company effected in accordance with the provisions of this
Section 6.

(d)   Potential Change of Control   shall mean the date as of which:

(i) the Company enters into an agreement the consummation of which, or the approval by
shareholders of which, would constitute a Change of Control;

(ii) proxies for the election of Directors of the Company are solicited by anyone other
than the Company;

(iii) any person (including, but not limited to, any individual, partnership, joint
venture, corporation, association or trust) publicly announces an intention to take or to
consider taking actions which, if consummated, would constitute a Change of Control; or

(iv) any other event occurs which is deemed to be a Potential Change of Control by the
Board and the Board adopts a resolution to the effect that a Potential Change of Control has
occurred.

(e) In the event that:

(i) the Executive would otherwise be entitled to the compensation and benefits
described in Section 6(a) hereof (   Compensation Payments    and

(ii) the Company determines, based upon the advice of tax counsel selected by the
Company s independent auditors and acceptable to the Executive, that, as a result of such
Compensation Payments and any other benefits or payments required to be taken into account
under Code Section 280G(b)(2) (   Parachute Payments   ), any of such Parachute Payments
would be reportable by the Company as  excess parachute payments,  such Compensation
Payments shall be reduced to the extent necessary to cause the Executive s Parachute
Payments to equal 2.99 times the  base amount  as defined in Code Section 280G(b)(3) with
respect to such Executive. However, such reduction in the Compensation Payments shall be
made only if, in the opinion of the Company, based upon the advice of such tax counsel, it
would result in a larger Parachute Payment to the Executive than payment of the unreduced
Parachute Payments after deduction of tax imposed on and payable by the Executive under
Section 4999 of the Code (   Excise Tax   ). The value of any non-cash benefits or any
deferred payment or benefit for purposes of this paragraph shall be determined by the
Company s independent auditors.

(f) Unless the Company determines that any Parachute Payments made hereunder must be reported
as  excess parachute payments  in accordance with Section 6(e) above, neither party shall file any
return taking the position that the payment of such benefits constitutes an  excess parachute
payment  within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(1) of the Code.

-8- 

(g) The parties hereto agree that the payments provided under Section 6(a), as may be adjusted
pursuant to Section 6(e), are reasonable compensation in light of the Executive s services rendered
to the Company.

7.  Complete Release . The Executive acknowledges and agrees that he will not receive
any of the payments described in Sections 5 and 6 above unless the Executive signs and returns to
the Company a full and complete release of any and all claims that the Executive or his estate,
heirs or assigns may have against the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates and its and their
officers, directors, employees and agents in a form acceptable to and provided by the Company at or
around the time of the Executive s termination.

8.  Non-Competition . As a material inducement for the Company s promise to provide the
trade secrets and confidential and proprietary information described in Section 10 below, the
Executive agrees that during the Term and for a period of three (3) years from the date of
cessation or termination of the Executive s employment with the Company for any reason whatsoever,
he will not, directly or indirectly, compete with the Company by providing services to any other
person, partnership, association, corporation, or other entity that is in a  Competing Business. 
As used herein, a  Competing Business  is any business that engages in whole or in part in the
retail sale of jewelry in the United States and/or Puerto Rico, including, but not limited to,
specialty jewelry retailers and other retailers having jewelry divisions or departments, and the
Executive s employment function or affiliation with the Competing Business is directly or
indirectly related to such business of jewelry. The restrictions contained in this Section 8 shall
be tolled on a day-for-day basis for each day during which the Executive participates in any
activity in violation of such restrictions. The parties agree that the above restrictions on
competition are completely severable and independent agreements supported by good and valuable
consideration and, as such, shall survive the termination of this Agreement for whatever reason.
The parties further agree that any invalidity or unenforceability of any one or more of such
restrictions on competition shall not render invalid or unenforceable any remaining restrictions on
competition. Additionally, should a court of competent jurisdiction determine that the scope of
any provision of this Section 8 is too broad to be enforced as written, the parties intend that the
court reform the provision to such narrower scope as it determines to be reasonable and
enforceable.

9.  No Hire/Non-Solicitation of Employees . During the Term and for a period of three
(3) years after the termination or cessation of his employment with the Company for any reason
whatsoever, the Executive shall not, on his own behalf or on behalf of any other person,
partnership, association, corporation, or other entity, (a) directly, indirectly, or through a
third party hire or cause to be hired; (b) directly, indirectly or through a third party solicit;
or (c) in any manner attempt to influence or induce any employee of the Company or its subsidiaries
or affiliates to leave the employment of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates, nor shall
he use or disclose to any person, partnership, association, corporation or other entity any
information obtained concerning the names and addresses of the Company s employees. The
restrictions contained in this Section 9 shall be tolled on a day-for-day basis for each day during
which the Executive participates in any activity in violation of such restrictions. The parties
agree that the above restrictions on hiring and solicitation are completely severable and
independent agreements supported by good and valuable consideration and, as such, shall survive the
termination of this Agreement for whatever reason. The parties further agree that any invalidity
or unenforceability of any one or more of such restrictions on

-9- 

hiring and
solicitation shall not render invalid or unenforceable any remaining restrictions or hiring
and solicitation. Additionally, should a court of competent jurisdiction determine that the scope
of any provision of this Section 9 is too broad to be enforced as written, the parties intend that
the court reform the provision to such narrower scope as it determines to be reasonable and
enforceable.

10.  Nondisclosure of Trade Secrets . The Company promises to disclose to the Executive
and the Executive acknowledges that in and as a result of his employment by the Company, he will
receive, make use of, acquire, have access to and/or become familiar with various trade secrets and
proprietary and confidential information of the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates,
including, but not limited to, processes, computer programs, compilations of information, records,
financial information, sales reports, sales procedures, customer requirements, pricing techniques,
customer lists, methods of doing business, identities, locations, performance and compensation
levels of employees and other confidential information (collectively,    Trade Secrets   )
which are owned by the Company, its subsidiaries and/or affiliates and regularly used in the
operation of its business, and as to which the Company, its subsidiaries and/or affiliates take
precautions to prevent dissemination to persons other than certain directors, officers and
employees. The Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Trade Secrets:

(a) are secret and not known in the industry;

(b) give the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates an advantage over competitors who do
not know or use the Trade Secrets;

(c) are of such value and nature as to make it reasonable and necessary to protect and
preserve the confidentiality and secrecy of the Trade Secrets; and

(d) are valuable, special and unique assets of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates,
the disclosure of which could cause substantial injury and loss of profits and goodwill to the
Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates.

The Executive promises not to use in any way or disclose any of the Trade Secrets and
confidential and proprietary information, directly or indirectly, either during or after the Term,
except as required in the course of his employment under this Agreement, if required in connection
with a judicial or administrative proceeding, or if the information becomes public knowledge other
than as a result of an unauthorized disclosure by the Executive. All files, records, documents,
information, data and similar items relating to the business of the Company, whether prepared by
the Executive or otherwise coming into his possession, will remain the exclusive property of the
Company and may not be removed from the premises of the Company under any circumstances without the
prior written consent of the Company (except in the ordinary course of business during the
Executive s period of active employment under this Agreement), and in any event must be promptly
delivered to the Company upon termination of the Executive s employment with the Company. The
Executive agrees that upon his receipt of any subpoena, process or other request to produce or
divulge, directly or indirectly, any Trade Secrets to any entity, agency, tribunal or person,
whether received during or after the term of the Executive s employment with the Company, the
Executive shall timely notify and promptly hand deliver a copy of the subpoena, process or other
request to the Company. For this purpose, the Executive irrevocably nominates and appoints the
Company (including any attorney
retained by the Company), as his true and lawful attorney-in-fact,

-10- 

to act in the Executive s
name, place and stead to perform any act that the Executive might perform to defend and protect
against any disclosure of any Trade Secrets.

The parties agree that the above restrictions on confidentiality and disclosure are completely
severable and independent agreements supported by good and valuable consideration and, as such,
shall survive the termination of this Agreement for whatever reason. The parties further agree
that any invalidity or unenforceability of any one or more of such restrictions on confidentiality
and disclosure shall not render invalid or unenforceable any remaining restrictions on
confidentiality and disclosure. Additionally, should a court of competent jurisdiction determine
that the scope of any provision of this Section 10 is too broad to be enforced as written, the
parties intend that the court reform the provision to such narrower scope as it determines to be
reasonable and enforceable.

11.  Executive Representations and Agreements . The Executive agrees that the Executive
and the Company are engaged in a highly competitive business and, due to the Executive s position
with the Company and the nature of the Executive s work, the Executive s engaging in any business
which is competitive with that of the Company will cause the Company great and irreparable harm.
The Executive represents and warrants that the time, scope and geographic area restricted by the
foregoing paragraph(s) pertaining to no hire/non-solicitation, non-competition, confidentiality and
nondisclosure are reasonable, that the enforcement of the restrictions contained in the foregoing
paragraphs would not be unduly burdensome to the Executive, and that the Executive will be able to
earn a reasonable living while abiding by the terms included herein. The Executive agrees that the
restraints created by the covenants in the foregoing paragraph(s) pertaining to no
hire/non-solicitation, non-competition, confidentiality and nondisclosure are no greater than
necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company, including its confidential business
or proprietary information and trade secrets, including but not limited to, the Trade Secrets.
Similarly, the Executive agrees that the need of the Company for the protection afforded by the
covenants of the foregoing paragraphs pertaining to no hire/non-solicitation, non-competition,
confidentiality and nondisclosure are not outweighed by either the hardship to the Executive or any
injury likely to the public. The Executive agrees that any breach by him of the foregoing
provisions pertaining to no hire/non-solicitation, non-competition, confidentiality and
nondisclosure will entitle the Company to discontinue any payments specified in Sections 2, 5 or 6,
above, for which the Executive might be eligible based on the terms of those Sections.
Notwithstanding the suspension or discontinuation of any such payments, the Executive agrees that
the Company is entitled to insist on full compliance by the Executive with the full terms,
including time periods, described in his promises not to hire/solicit, compete or disclose
confidential information or Trade Secrets. Any delay by the Company in discontinuing payment shall
not be construed as a waiver of any rights to discontinue payment.

12.  Severability . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid
or unenforceable under present or future laws effective during the term of this Agreement, such
provision shall be fully severable and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if such
illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision never constituted a part of this Agreement; and the
remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall not be
affected by the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision or by its severance here from.
Furthermore, in lieu of such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision, there shall be added as
part of this Agreement, a

-11- 

provision
as similar in its terms to such illegal, invalid or enforceable provision as may be possible
and be legal, valid and enforceable.

13.  Arbitration .

(a) The parties agree that any controversy or claim (including all claims pursuant to common
and statutory law) relating to this Agreement or arising out of the Executive s employment with the
Company, shall be resolved exclusively through arbitration pursuant to the National Rules for the
Resolution of Employment Disputes of the American Arbitration Association ( AAA ). Any such
arbitration proceeding shall take place in Dallas County, Texas. All disputes shall be resolved by
a single arbitrator. The arbitrator will have the authority to award the same remedies, damages
and costs that a court could award. The arbitrator shall issue a reasoned award explaining the
decision, the reasons for the decision and any damages awarded. The arbitrator s decision will be
final and binding. The judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any
court having jurisdiction thereof. This provision can be enforced under the Federal Arbitration
Act.

(b) As the sole exception to the exclusive and binding nature of the arbitration commitment
set forth above, the Executive and the Company agree that the Company shall have the right to
initiate an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in order to request temporary, preliminary
and permanent injunctive or other equitable relief, including, without limitation, specific
performance, to enforce the terms of Sections 8, 9, 10 or 11 or above without the necessity of
proving inadequacy of legal remedies or irreparable harm or posting bond. However, nothing in this
section should be construed to constitute a waiver of the parties  rights and obligations to
arbitrate regarding matters other than those specifically addressed in this paragraph.

(c) Should a court of competent jurisdiction determine that the scope of any provision of this
Section 13 is too broad to be enforced as written, the parties intend that the court reform the
provision to such narrower scope as it determines to be reasonable and enforceable.

14.  Survival . The Executive acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement, including but
not limited to Sections 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15(a) and 15(d), shall survive the termination of the
Executive s employment under this Agreement for whatever reason. The existence of any claim or
cause of action of the Executive against the Company, whether predicated on this Agreement or
otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of the covenants of the
Executive contained in this Agreement, including but not limited to those contained in Sections 8,
9, 10, 11 and 13.

15.  Miscellaneous .

(a)  Notices . Any notices, consents, demands, requests, approvals and other
communications to be given under this Agreement by either party to the other must be in writing and
must be either:

(i) personally delivered;

(ii) mailed by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid with return receipt
requested;

-12- 

(iii) delivered by overnight express delivery service or same-day local courier
service; or

(iv) delivered by telex or facsimile transmission, to the address set forth below, or
to such other address as may be designated by the parties from time to time in accordance
with this Section 15(a):

If to the Company:

Zale Delaware, Inc. 

901 W. Walnut Hill Lane 

Irving, Texas 75038 

Attention:Chief Executive Officer 

with a copy to:

General Counsel 

If to Executive:

Mr. Gilbert P. Hollander 

4528 Banyan Lane 

Dallas, Texas 75287 

Notices delivered personally or by overnight express delivery service or by local courier
service are deemed given as of actual receipt. Notices mailed within the continental United States
are deemed given three business days after mailing. Notices delivered by telex or facsimile
transmission are deemed given upon receipt by the sender of the answer back (in the case of a
telex) or transmission confirmation (in the case of a facsimile transmission).

(b)  Entire Agreement . This Agreement supersedes any and all other agreements, either
oral or written, between the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement and
contains all of the covenants and agreements between the parties with respect to the subject matter
of this Agreement.

(c)  Modification . No change or modification of this Agreement is valid or binding
upon the parties, nor will any waiver of any term or condition in the future be so binding, unless
the change or modification or waiver is in writing and signed by the parties to this Agreement.

(d)  Governing Law and Venue . The parties acknowledge and agree that this Agreement
and the obligations and undertakings of the parties under this Agreement will be performable in
Irving, Dallas County, Texas. This Agreement is governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
laws of the State of Texas. If any action is brought to enforce or interpret this Agreement, venue
for the action will be in Dallas County, Texas.

(e)  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which
constitutes an original, but all of which constitutes one document.

(f)  Costs . If any action at law or in equity is necessary to enforce or interpret the
terms of this Agreement, each party shall bear its own costs and expenses.

-13- 

(g)  Estate . If the Executive dies prior to the expiration of the Term or during a
period when monies are owing to him, any monies that may be due him from the Company under this
Agreement as of the date of his death shall be paid to his estate and as when otherwise payable.

(h)  Assignment . The Company shall have the right to assign this Agreement to its
successors or assigns. The terms  successors  and  assigns  shall include any person, corporation,
partnership or other entity that buys all or substantially all of the Company s assets or all of
its stock, or with which the Company merges or consolidates. The rights, duties and benefits to
the Executive hereunder are personal to him, and no such right or benefit may be assigned by him.

(i)  Binding Effect . This Agreement is binding upon the parties hereto, together with
their respective executors, administrators, successors, personal representatives, heirs and
permitted assigns.

(j)  Waiver of Breach . The waiver by the Company or the Executive of a breach of any
provision of this Agreement by the Executive or the Company may not operate or be construed as a
waiver of any subsequent breach.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first above
written.

By: 
       
     /s/Gilbert P. Hollander 

Gilbert P. Hollander 

ZALE DELAWARE, INC. 

By:

/s/Mary L. Fort  

Its:

Chief Executive Officer 

-14- 

</EX-10.13>

<EX-10.14>
 9
 d40232exv10w14.htm
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - FRANK C. MROCZKA

exv10w14 

EXHIBIT 10.14

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  

THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ( Agreement ), dated as of August 1, 2006, is by and between Zale
Delaware, Inc. (the    Company   ), and Frank C. Mroczka (the    Executive   ).

WHEREAS, the Executive and the Company desire to enter into an employment agreement which sets
forth the terms and conditions of the Executive s employment with the Company.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recital, of the mutual covenants set forth
herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

1.  Employment . The Executive agrees to continue in the employment of the Company, and
the Company agrees to employ the Executive, on the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement. The Executive agrees during the Term (as hereinafter defined) to devote his full time
efforts, skills and abilities to the performance of his duties as stated in this Agreement and to
the furtherance of the Company s business. As consideration for this Agreement and specifically in
consideration for the promises described in Section 9, the Company promises to provide the
Executive with confidential and proprietary information and trade secrets, the receipt and
sufficiency of which the Executive acknowledges, including, without limitation, Trade Secrets (as
defined below) belonging to the Company for use in the performance of the Executive s duties for
the Company. The Executive s job title will be Senior Vice President of the Company and President
of the Gordon s Jewelers Division of the Company and his duties will be those designated from time
to time by the Chief Executive Officer (   CEO   ) and/or Board of Directors of the Company
(   Board   ). The Executive further agrees to serve, without additional compensation, as an
officer or director, or both, of any subsidiary, division or affiliate of the Company or any other
entity in which the Company holds an equity interest, provided, however, that (a) the Company shall
indemnify the Executive from liabilities in connection with serving in any such position to the
same extent as his indemnification rights pursuant to the Company s Certificate of Incorporation,
Bylaws and applicable Delaware law, and (b) such other position shall not materially detract from
the responsibilities of the Executive pursuant to this Section 1 or his ability to perform such
responsibilities.

2.  Compensation .

(a)  Base Salary . During the term of the Executive s employment with the Company
pursuant to this Agreement, the Company shall pay to the Executive as compensation for his services
an annual base salary of not less than $300,000 payable bi-weekly (   Base Salary   ). The
Executive s Base Salary will be payable in arrears in accordance with the Company s normal payroll
procedures.

(b)  Incentive Bonus . The Executive s incentive compensation program during the term
of his employment under this Agreement shall be determined under the Company s Executive

Bonus
Program, established by the Board in its discretion. The Executive is eligible to receive up to
90% of his Base Salary in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Executive Bonus
Program then in effect at the Company.

(c)  Vacation . The Executive shall be entitled to a reasonable vacation of three (3)
paid weeks each fiscal year during the term of his employment under this Agreement in accordance
with the Company s vacation policy. Any additional vacation shall be approved in the sole
discretion of the Executive s supervisor.

(d)  Executive Perquisites . The Executive shall be entitled during the term of his
employment under this Agreement to receive such executive perquisites and fringe and other benefits
as are provided to similarly situated executives and their families under any of the Company s
plans and/or programs in effect from time to time and such other benefits as are customarily
available to executives of the Company and their families.

(e)  Tax Withholding . The Company has the right to deduct from any compensation
payable to the Executive under this Agreement social security (FICA) taxes and all federal, state,
municipal or other such taxes or charges as may now be in effect or that may hereafter be enacted
or required.

3.  Term . Unless sooner terminated pursuant to Section 4 of this Agreement, the term
of the Executive s employment under this Agreement shall commence as of the date hereof and shall
continue for twelve (12) months thereafter up to and including July 31, 2007 (the    Term   ).
Following the expiration of the Term, the Executive s employment shall continue at-will unless a
new employment agreement is negotiated and executed.

4.  Early Termination . The Term may be terminated prior to the expiration date
specified in Section 3 under the following circumstances:

(a)  Death . The Executive s employment under this Agreement shall terminate upon the
death of the Executive.

(b)  Termination for Cause . The Company may terminate the Executive s employment at
any time for  Cause  (as hereinafter defined) by delivering a written termination notice to the
Executive. For purposes of this Agreement,  Cause  shall mean any of the following:

(i) the Executive is convicted of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude;

(ii) the Executive commits an act constituting fraud, deceit or material
misrepresentation with respect to the Company;

(iii) the Executive embezzles funds or assets from the Company;

-2- 

(iv) the Executive s use of any alcoholic, controlled or illegal substance or drug at
work or otherwise such that, in the Company s sole discretion, the Executive s job
performance is impaired;

(v) in the Company s sole discretion, the Executive commits any negligent or willful
act or omission in the performance of his duties or the exercise of his responsibilities; or

(vi) in the Company s sole discretion, the Executive commits any negligent or willful
act or omission that causes damage (by reason, without limitation, of financial exposure or
loss, damage to reputation or goodwill, or exposure to civil or criminal penalties or other
prosecutorial action by any governmental authority) to the Company or any parent or
subsidiary corporation thereof.

(c)  Termination Without Cause . The Company may also terminate the Executive s
employment at any time for any reason other than for Cause by delivering a written termination
notice to the Executive.

(d)  Termination by the Executive . The Executive may terminate his employment at any
time by delivering a written termination notice to the Company and such termination shall be deemed
a  Termination Reason  for any of the following reasons:

(i) a material reduction by the Company in the Executive s Base Salary unless such
reduction is the result of (A) a business judgment made by the Company in its sole
discretion, or (B) the Executive s failure to meet pre-established and objective performance
criteria;

(ii) Company s principal executive offices shall be moved to a location outside the
Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas Metroplex area or the Executive is required to be based anywhere
other than the Company s principal executive offices; and

(iii) the assignment to the Executive by the Company of duties materially inconsistent
with, or the material reduction of the powers and functions associated with, the Executive s
position, duties, responsibilities and status with the Company or a material adverse change
in the Executive s titles or offices, unless such action is the result of the Executive s
failure to meet preestablished and objective performance criteria, or in lieu of termination
by the Company of the Executive s employment for the Executive s Disability pursuant to
Section 4(e) below.

(e)  Termination Following Disability . In the event that in the Company s sole
discretion, the Executive becomes mentally or physically impaired or disabled and is unable to
perform his duties and responsibilities hereunder for a period of at least one hundred twenty (120)
days in the aggregate during any one hundred fifty (150) consecutive day period (a    Disability
Event   ), the Company may terminate the Executive s employment under this Agreement by
delivering a written termination notice to the Executive.

  -3- 

(f)  Payments/Deductions . Following any expiration or termination of the Executive s
employment under this Agreement, and in addition to any amounts owed pursuant to Section 5 hereof,
the Company shall pay to the Executive all amounts earned by the Executive hereunder up to the date
of such expiration or termination. The Executive agrees that any advances
to the Executive by the Company outstanding at the time of the expiration or termination of
the Executive s employment under this Agreement may be deducted from his wages, including his final
paycheck and/or any severance owed to Executive.

5.  Rights of Executive Upon Termination.  Subject to the Executive s adherence to the
terms of this Agreement, including but not limited to the non-competition, no-hire/non-solicitation
and non-disclosure provisions set forth below, the Executive shall be entitled to receive the
following benefits in the event his employment is terminated pursuant to Section 4 above prior to
the expiration of the Term specified in Section 3 above.

(a)  Death . In the event that the Executive s employment is terminated upon the
occurrence of his death as provided in Section 4(a), the Company shall continue to pay, in
accordance with its normal payroll procedures, the Base Salary to the Executive s estate for a
period of twelve (12) months after the date of the Executive s death.

(b)  Termination for Cause . In the event that the Executive s employment is terminated
by the Company for Cause as provided in Section 4(b) or by the Executive without a  Termination
Reason  as provided in Section 4(d), the Executive shall not thereafter be entitled to any further
compensation from the Company.

(c)  Termination without Cause or by the Executive . In the event the Company
terminates the Executive s employment without Cause as provided in Section 4(c) or the Executive
terminates his employment for a  Termination Reason  as provided in Sections 4(d)(i), 4(d)(ii) or
4(d)(iii), then the Executive shall be entitled to the following:

(i)  Severance . The Company shall continue to pay (in accordance with its
normal payroll procedures) the Base Salary to the Executive (or the Executive s estate if
the Executive dies after termination of employment) for the greater of (i) the remainder of
the Term or (ii) the period for which the Executive would be entitled to severance under the
Company s severance policy in existence at the time of the Executive s termination
(   Severance Period   ).

(ii)  Benefits . During the first twelve (12) months of the Severance Period or
if the Severance Period is less than twelve (12) months, until the end of the Severance
Period, the Executive shall continue to receive the fringe benefits provided under Section
2(d) hereof, provided that the continued participation of the Executive under any benefit
plan including, without limitation, group healthcare, dental and life insurance is possible
under the general terms and provisions of such plans. Such twelve (12) months or shorter
period of coverage shall count against Executive s eligibility period under COBRA. If the
Executive s participation in any such plan is barred, the Company shall arrange to provide
the Executive with benefits substantially similar to those which the Executive would
otherwise have been entitled to receive under such plan or, alternatively at the option of
the Company, reimburse

-4- 

the Executive for the reasonable actual costs of purchasing in the
marketplace substantially similar benefits; provided, however, that in either case the
Executive shall pay to the Company, or provide a credit against the Company s reimbursement
obligation for, the amount equal to the premiums, or portion thereof, that the Executive was
required to pay to
maintain such benefits prior to the date of termination of employment. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained herein, the Executive shall be entitled to participate in
the Company s Executive Car Program in effect for the Executive immediately prior to the
Severance Period only until the earlier of (x) the second anniversary of the Executive s
then current car lease, or (y) the end of the Severance Period. The Executive shall return
any Company vehicle provided to him under the Executive Car Program to the Company or its
designee upon the expiration of his Executive Car Program benefits as described in the
foregoing sentence.

(iii)  Offset . The payments which would have been due and payable in accordance
with Section 5(c)(i) hereof shall be reduced by an amount equal to any amounts that the
Executive receives in connection with any other employment, consultancy arrangement or
similar source of income (each, an      Income Source   ) during the Severance Period.
Any fringe benefits received by or available to the Executive from or in connection with any
Income Source that are reasonably comparable, but not necessarily as financially or
otherwise beneficial to the Executive as the fringe benefits then being provided by the
Company pursuant to Section 5(c)(ii) hereof, shall be deemed to be the equivalent thereof
and shall terminate the Company s responsibility to continue providing the fringe benefits
then being provided by the Company pursuant to Section 5(c)(ii) hereof.

(d)  Termination Following Disability . In the event that the Executive s employment is
terminated due to a Disability Event as provided in Section 4(e), the Executive shall be entitled
to continue to receive his salary and benefits (subject to the conditions regarding such benefits
specified in Section 5(c)(ii) and 5(c)(iii) above) under Section 2 of this Agreement for a period
of twelve (12) months after the date of such termination.

(e)  Complete Compensation . Except as specifically provided for in this Section 5 and
Section 4(f) above, the Executive shall be entitled to no additional salary, benefits or other
compensation following the termination of his employment.

6.  Effect of Change of Control .

(a) If within two (2) years following a  Change of Control  (as hereinafter defined), the
Executive terminates his employment with the Company for Good Reason (as hereinafter defined) or
the Company terminates the Executive s employment for any reason other than Cause or a Disability
Event, the Company shall pay to the Executive, in the case of clauses (i), (ii) and (iv), and make
available to the Executive, in the case of clause (iii):

(i) an amount equal to three (3) times the Executive s Base Salary as of the date of
termination;

-5- 

(ii) an amount equal to three (3) times the average annual cash bonus paid to the
Executive for the two (2) fiscal years immediately preceding the date of termination;

(iii) all benefits under the Company s various benefit plans, including group
healthcare, dental ,  life and the Company s Executive Car Program for the period equal to
thirty-six (36) months from the date of termination, provided that the continued
participation of the Executive is possible under the general terms and provisions of such
plans. If the Executive s participation in any such plan is barred, the Company shall
arrange to provide the Executive with benefits substantially similar to those which the
Executive would otherwise have been entitled to receive under such plan or, alternatively at
the option of the Company, reimburse the Executive for the reasonable actual costs of
purchasing in the marketplace substantially similar benefits; provided, however, that in
either case the Executive shall pay to the Company, or provide a credit against the
Company s reimbursement obligation for, the amount equal to the premiums, or portion
thereof, that the Executive was required to pay to maintain such benefits prior to the date
of termination of employment. Further, any insurance or other benefits and benefits
coverage provided pursuant hereto shall be limited and reduced to the extent such coverage
or benefits are   otherwise provided by or available to the Executive from or in
connection with any Income Source; and

(iv) a lump sum payment equal to the actuarial equivalent (determined by the Company in
good faith with assistance of its accountants or actuaries), of the benefit which would have
accrued under the Zale Delaware, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
(   SERP   ) if:

(1) the Executive remained a participant in the SERP for the three (3) year
period commencing on the first day of the SERP s plan year (   Plan Year   ) in
which the Executive s employment with the Company terminated (   Measurement
Period   

(2) during each Plan Year in the Measurement Period the Executive earned
benefit points equal to the highest number of the benefit points earned by such
Executive in a Plan Year during the three (3) year period ending on the last day of
the Plan Year immediately preceding the Plan Year in which his employment with the
Company terminated; and

(3) the Executive s final average pay during the Measurement Period is the
greater of his monthly Base Salary on the date of (a) a Potential Change of Control,
(b) the Change of Control or (c) the date of his termination of employment;

provided, however, that the amount paid to Executive pursuant to this clause (iv) shall not
exceed his accrued benefit under the SERP as of December 31, 2004, except to the extent
that such excess is pursuant to a new supplemental executive retirement plan adopted by the
Company subsequent to such date.

-6- 

(b)   Change of Control   shall mean the date as of which:

(i) there shall be consummated:

(1) any consolidation or merger of the Company in which the Company is not the
continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which shares of the Company s
common stock would be converted into cash, securities or other property,
other than a merger of the Company in which the holders of the Company s common
stock immediately prior to the merger have the same proportionate ownership of
common stock of the surviving corporation immediately after the merger; or

(2) any sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series
of related transactions) of all, or substantially all, of the assets of the Company;

(ii) the stockholders of the Company approve any plan or proposal for the liquidation
or dissolution of the Company;

(iii) any person (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (   Exchange Act   )), shall become the beneficial
owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of 30% of the Company s
outstanding common stock; or

(iv) during any period of two (2) consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning
of such period constitute the entire board of directors of the Company shall cease for any
reason to constitute a majority thereof unless the election, or the nomination for election
by the Company s stockholders, of each new director was approved by a vote of at least
two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the
period.

(c)   Good Reason   shall mean any of the following actions taken by the Company without
the Executive s written consent after a Change of Control:

(i) the assignment to the Executive by the Company of duties materially inconsistent
with, or the material reduction, other than due solely to the fact that the Company no
longer is a publicly traded company, of the powers and functions associated with, the
Executive s position, duties, responsibilities and status with the Company immediately prior
to a Change of Control or Potential Change of Control (as defined below), or a material
adverse change in the Executive s titles or offices as in effect immediately prior to a
Change of Control or Potential Change of Control, or any removal of the Executive from or
any failure to re-elect the Executive to any of such positions, except in connection with
the termination of his employment (A) by the Company for a Disability Event or Cause or as a
result of the Executive s death or (B) by the Executive other than for the reasons set forth
in this section (6)(c)(i)-(vii) ; 

-7- 

(ii) a reduction by the Company in the Executive s Base Salary as in effect on the date
of a Change of Control or Potential Change of Control;

(iii) the Company s principal executive offices shall be moved to a location outside
the Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas Metroplex area;

(iv) the Company shall require the Executive to be based anywhere other than at the
Company s principal executive offices or the location where the Executive is based on the
date of a Change of Control or Potential Change of Control, or if the Executive agrees to
such relocation, the Company fails to reimburse the Executive for moving and all other
expenses incurred with such move;

(v) the Company shall fail to continue in effect any Company-sponsored plan that is in
effect on the date of a Change of Control or Potential Change of Control (or one or more
replacement plans therefor that in the aggregate provide the same or more favorable
benefits), that provides (A) incentive or bonus compensation, (B) reimbursement for
reasonable expenses incurred by the Executive in connection with the performance of duties
with the Company, and (C) pension benefits such as a Code Section 401(k) plan;

(vi) any material breach by the Company of any provision of this Agreement; and

(vii) any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption of this Agreement by any
successor or assign of the Company effected in accordance with the provisions of this
Section 6.

(d)   Potential Change of Control   shall mean the date as of which:

(i) the Company enters into an agreement the consummation of which, or the approval by
stockholders of which, would constitute a Change of Control;

(ii) proxies for the election of Directors of the Company are solicited by anyone other
than the Company;

(iii) any person (including, but not limited to, any individual, partnership, joint
venture, corporation, association or trust) publicly announces an intention to take or to
consider taking actions which, if consummated, would constitute a Change of Control; or

(iv) any other event occurs which is deemed to be a Potential Change of Control by the
Board and the Board adopts a resolution to the effect that a Potential Change of Control has
occurred.

(e) In the event that:

(i) the Executive would otherwise be entitled to the compensation and benefits
described in Section 6(a) hereof (   Compensation Payments    and

-8- 

(ii) the Company determines, based upon the advice of tax counsel selected by the
Company s independent auditors and acceptable to the Executive, that, as a result of such
Compensation Payments and any other benefits or payments required to be taken into account
under Code Section 280G(b)(2) (   Parachute Payments   ), any of such Parachute Payments
would be reportable by the Company as  excess parachute payments,  such Compensation
Payments shall be reduced to the extent necessary to cause the Executive s Parachute
Payments to equal 2.99 times the  base amount  as defined in Code Section 280G(b)(3) with
respect to such Executive. However, such reduction in the Compensation Payments shall be
made only if, in the opinion of the Company, based upon the advice of such tax counsel, it
would result in a larger Parachute Payment to the Executive than payment of the
unreduced Parachute Payments after deduction of tax imposed on and payable by the Executive
under Section 4999 of the Code (   Excise Tax   ). The value of any non-cash benefits
or any deferred payment or benefit for purposes of this paragraph shall be determined by the
Company s independent auditors.

(f) Unless the Company determines that any Parachute Payments made hereunder must be reported
as  excess parachute payments  in accordance with Section 6(e) above, neither party shall file any
return taking the position that the payment of such benefits constitutes an  excess parachute
payment  within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(1) of the Code.

(g) The parties hereto agree that the payments provided under Section 6(a), as may be adjusted
pursuant to Section 6(e), are reasonable compensation in light of the Executive s services rendered
to the Company.

7.  Section 409A.  It is expressly contemplated by the parties that this Agreement
will conform to, and be interpreted to comply with, Section 409A of the Code. Unless expressly
provided otherwise, all of the payments due to Executive under Sections 5 or 6 will be made within
fifteen (15) days following the date of termination; provided, however, that if, under Section 409A
of the Code, such payments must be delayed to conform with the applicable tax rules, the Company
will defer any such payment until no later than one day following the first date upon which such
payment may be made without incurring the tax imposed thereunder; provided, further, that if
Executive incurs any additional tax, interest or penalties under Section 409A despite such
deferral, the Company will pay Executive an additional amount so that, after all taxes on such
amount, Executive has an amount equal to such additional tax.

8.  Complete Release . The Executive acknowledges and agrees that he will not receive
any of the payments described in Sections 5 and 6 above unless the Executive signs and returns to
the Company a full and complete release of any and all claims that the Executive or his estate,
heirs or assigns may have against the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates and its and their
officers, directors, employees and agents in a form acceptable to and provided by the Company at or
around the time of the Executive s termination.

9.  Non-Competition . As a material inducement for the Company s promise to provide the
trade secrets and confidential and proprietary information described in Section 11 below, the
Executive agrees that during the Term and for a period of three (3) years from the date of
cessation or termination of the Executive s employment with the Company for any reason whatsoever,
he will

-9- 

not, directly or indirectly, compete with the Company by providing services to any other
person, partnership, association, corporation, or other entity that is in a  Competing Business. 
As used herein, a  Competing Business  is any business that engages in whole or in part in the
retail sale of jewelry in the United States and/or Puerto Rico, including, but not limited to,
specialty jewelry retailers and other retailers having jewelry divisions or departments, and the
Executive s employment function or affiliation with the Competing Business is directly or
indirectly related to such business of jewelry. The restrictions contained in this Section 9 shall
be tolled on a day-for-day basis for each day during which the Executive participates in any
activity in violation of such restrictions. The parties agree that the above restrictions on
competition are completely severable and independent agreements
supported by good and valuable consideration and, as such, shall survive the termination of
this Agreement for whatever reason. The parties further agree that any invalidity or
unenforceability of any one or more of such restrictions on competition shall not render invalid or
unenforceable any remaining restrictions on competition. Additionally, should a court of competent
jurisdiction determine that the scope of any provision of this Section 9 is too broad to be
enforced as written, the parties intend that the court reform the provision to such narrower scope
as it determines to be reasonable and enforceable.

10.  No Hire/Non-Solicitation of Employees . During the Term and for a period of three
(3) years after the termination or cessation of his employment with the Company for any reason
whatsoever, the Executive shall not, on his own behalf or on behalf of any other person,
partnership, association, corporation, or other entity, (a) directly, indirectly, or through a
third party hire or cause to be hired; (b) directly, indirectly or through a third party solicit;
or (c) in any manner attempt to influence or induce any employee of the Company or its subsidiaries
or affiliates to leave the employment of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates, nor shall
he use or disclose to any person, partnership, association, corporation or other entity any
information obtained concerning the names and addresses of the Company s employees. The
restrictions contained in this Section 10 shall be tolled on a day-for-day basis for each day
during which the Executive participates in any activity in violation of such restrictions. The
parties agree that the above restrictions on hiring and solicitation are completely severable and
independent agreements supported by good and valuable consideration and, as such, shall survive the
termination of this Agreement for whatever reason. The parties further agree that any invalidity
or unenforceability of any one or more of such restrictions on hiring and solicitation shall not
render invalid or unenforceable any remaining restrictions or hiring and solicitation.
Additionally, should a court of competent jurisdiction determine that the scope of any provision of
this Section 10 is too broad to be enforced as written, the parties intend that the court reform
the provision to such narrower scope as it determines to be reasonable and enforceable.

11.  Nondisclosure of Trade Secrets . The Company promises to disclose to the Executive
and the Executive acknowledges that in and as a result of his employment by the Company, he will
receive, make use of, acquire, have access to and/or become familiar with various trade secrets and
proprietary and confidential information of the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates,
including, but not limited to, processes, computer programs, compilations of information, records,
financial information, sales reports, sales procedures, customer requirements, pricing techniques,
customer lists, methods of doing business, identities, locations, performance and compensation
levels of employees and other confidential information (collectively,    Trade Secrets   )
which are owned by

-10- 

the Company, its subsidiaries and/or affiliates and regularly used in the
operation of its business, and as to which the Company, its subsidiaries and/or affiliates take
precautions to prevent dissemination to persons other than certain directors, officers and
employees. The Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Trade Secrets:

(a) are secret and not known in the industry;

(b) give the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates an advantage over competitors who do
not know or use the Trade Secrets;

(c) are of such value and nature as to make it reasonable and necessary to protect and
preserve the confidentiality and secrecy of the Trade Secrets; and

(d) are valuable, special and unique assets of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates,
the disclosure of which could cause substantial injury and loss of profits and goodwill to the
Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates.

The Executive promises not to use in any way or disclose any of the Trade Secrets and
confidential and proprietary information, directly or indirectly, either during or after the Term,
except as required in the course of his employment under this Agreement, if required in connection
with a judicial or administrative proceeding, or if the information becomes public knowledge other
than as a result of an unauthorized disclosure by the Executive. All files, records, documents,
information, data and similar items relating to the business of the Company, whether prepared by
the Executive or otherwise coming into his possession, will remain the exclusive property of the
Company and may not be removed from the premises of the Company under any circumstances without the
prior written consent of the Company (except in the ordinary course of business during the
Executive s period of active employment under this Agreement), and in any event must be promptly
delivered to the Company upon termination of the Executive s employment with the Company. The
Executive agrees that upon his receipt of any subpoena, process or other request to produce or
divulge, directly or indirectly, any Trade Secrets to any entity, agency, tribunal or person,
whether received during or after the term of the Executive s employment with the Company, the
Executive shall timely notify and promptly hand deliver a copy of the subpoena, process or other
request to the Company. For this purpose, the Executive irrevocably nominates and appoints the
Company (including any attorney retained by the Company), as his true and lawful attorney-in-fact,
to act in the Executive s name, place and stead to perform any act that the Executive might perform
to defend and protect against any disclosure of any Trade Secrets.

The parties agree that the above restrictions on confidentiality and disclosure are completely
severable and independent agreements supported by good and valuable consideration and, as such,
shall survive the termination of this Agreement for whatever reason. The parties further agree
that any invalidity or unenforceability of any one or more of such restrictions on confidentiality
and disclosure shall not render invalid or unenforceable any remaining restrictions on
confidentiality and disclosure. Additionally, should a court of competent jurisdiction determine
that the scope of any provision of this Section 11 is too broad to be enforced as written, the
parties intend that the court reform the provision to such narrower scope as it determines to be
reasonable and enforceable.

-11- 

12.  Non-Disparagement . The Executive expressly acknowledges, agrees, and covenants
that he will not make any public or private statements, comments, or communications in any form,
oral, written, or electronic (all of the foregoing, for purposes of this paragraph,
   Communications   ), which in any way could constitute libel, slander, or disparagement of
the Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates or parent, its and/or their employees, officers, and/or
directors, or which may be considered to be derogatory or detrimental to its or their good name or
business; provided, however ,  that the terms of this paragraph shall not (a) apply to
Communications between the Executive and his spouse, clergy, or attorneys, which are subject to a
claim of privilege existing under common law, statute, or rule of procedure; (b) apply to
Communications required by law or made in response to a valid subpoena or other lawful order
compelling the Executive to provide testimony or information;
provided, however, that in responding to a valid subpoena or other lawful order, the Executive
agrees to provide the Company with advance notice and an opportunity to seek a protective order or
other safeguard for its confidential information; or (c) be construed to inhibit or limit the
Executive s ability to initiate or cooperate with any investigation by a governmental or regulatory
agency or official. The Executive specifically agrees not to issue any public statement concerning
his employment at Zale and/or the cessation of such employment.

13.  Executive Representations and Agreements . The Executive agrees that the Executive
and the Company are engaged in a highly competitive business and, due to the Executive s position
with the Company and the nature of the Executive s work, the Executive s engaging in any business
which is competitive with that of the Company will cause the Company great and irreparable harm.
The Executive represents and warrants that the time, scope and geographic area restricted by the
foregoing paragraph(s) pertaining to no hire/non-solicitation, non-competition, confidentiality and
nondisclosure, and non-disparagement are reasonable, that the enforcement of the restrictions
contained in the foregoing paragraphs would not be unduly burdensome to the Executive, and that the
Executive will be able to earn a reasonable living while abiding by the terms included herein. The
Executive agrees that the restraints created by the covenants in the foregoing paragraph(s)
pertaining to no hire/non-solicitation, non-competition, confidentiality and nondisclosure, and
non-disparagement are no greater than necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company,
including its confidential business or proprietary information and trade secrets, including but not
limited to, the Trade Secrets. Similarly, the Executive agrees that the need of the Company for
the protection afforded by the covenants of the foregoing paragraphs pertaining to no
hire/non-solicitation, non-competition, confidentiality and nondisclosure, and non-disparagement
are not outweighed by either the hardship to the Executive or any injury likely to the public. The
Executive agrees that any breach by him of the foregoing provisions pertaining to no
hire/non-solicitation, non-competition, confidentiality and nondisclosure, and non-disparagement
will entitle the Company to discontinue any payments specified in Sections 2, 5 or 6, above, for
which the Executive might be eligible based on the terms of those Sections. Notwithstanding the
suspension or discontinuation of any such payments, the Executive agrees that the Company is
entitled to insist on full compliance by the Executive with the full terms, including time periods,
described in his promises not to hire/solicit, compete, disclose confidential information or Trade
Secrets or disparage. Any delay by the Company in discontinuing payment shall not be construed as
a waiver of any rights to discontinue payment. Executive consents to the freezing of his benefits
under the SERP as of December 31, 2004.

-12- 

14.  Severability . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid
or unenforceable under present or future laws effective during the term of this Agreement, such
provision shall be fully severable and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if such
illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision never constituted a part of this Agreement; and the
remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall not be
affected by the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision or by its severance here from.
Furthermore, in lieu of such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision, there shall be added as
part of this Agreement, a provision as similar in its terms to such illegal, invalid or enforceable
provision as may be possible and be legal, valid and enforceable.

15.  Arbitration .

(a)  The Parties agree that any controversy or claim (including all claims pursuant to common
and statutory law) relating to this Agreement or arising out of or relating to the subject matter
of this Agreement shall be resolved exclusively through binding arbitration. Subject to the terms
and any exceptions provided in this Agreement, the parties each waive the right to a jury trial and
waive the right to adjudicate their disputes under this Agreement outside the arbitration forum
provided for in this Agreement.  The arbitration shall be administered by a single neutral
arbitrator, specializing in employment law and admitted to practice law in Texas for ten (10) years
or more with JAMS in accordance with its then-current applicable rules and procedures. Any such
arbitration proceeding shall take place in Dallas County, Texas and shall be administered by the
JAMS Dallas office. The arbitrator will have the authority to award the same remedies, damages and
costs that a court could award. The arbitrator shall issue a reasoned award explaining the
decision, the reasons for the decision and any damages awarded. The arbitrator s decision will be
final and binding. The judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any
court having jurisdiction thereof. This provision can be enforced under the Federal Arbitration
Act.

(b) As the sole exception to the exclusive and binding nature of the arbitration commitment
set forth above, the Executive and the Company agree that the Company shall have the right to
initiate an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in order to request temporary, preliminary
and permanent injunctive or other equitable relief, including, without limitation, specific
performance, to enforce the terms of Sections 9, 10, 11, 12 or 13 or above without the necessity of
proving inadequacy of legal remedies or irreparable harm or posting bond. However, nothing in this
section should be construed to constitute a waiver of the parties  rights and obligations to
arbitrate regarding matters other than those specifically addressed in this paragraph.

(c) Should a court of competent jurisdiction determine that the scope of any provision of this
Section 15 is too broad to be enforced as written, the parties intend that the court reform the
provision to such narrower scope as it determines to be reasonable and enforceable.

16.  Survival . The Executive acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement, including but
not limited to Sections 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17(a) and 17(d), shall survive the termination
of the Executive s employment under this Agreement for whatever reason. The existence of any
claim or cause of action of the Executive against the Company, whether predicated on this Agreement
or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of the

-13- 

covenants of
the Executive contained in this Agreement, including but not limited to those contained in Sections
9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 15.

17.  Miscellaneous .

(a)  Notices . Any notices, consents, demands, requests, approvals and other
communications to be given under this Agreement by either party to the other must be in writing and
must be either:

(i) personally delivered;

(ii) mailed by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid with return receipt
requested;

(iii) delivered by overnight express delivery service or same-day local courier
service; or

(iv) delivered by telex or facsimile transmission, to the address set forth below, or
to such other address as may be designated by the parties from time to time in accordance
with this Section 17(a):

If to the Company:

Zale Delaware, Inc. 

901 W. Walnut Hill Lane 

Irving, Texas 75038 

Attention:Chief Executive Officer 

with a copy to:

General Counsel 

If to Executive:

Mr. Frank C. Mroczka 

2705 Wisdom Creek Drive 
Flower Mound, Texas 75022 

Notices delivered personally or by overnight express delivery service or by local courier
service are deemed given as of actual receipt. Notices mailed within the continental United States
are deemed given three business days after mailing. Notices delivered by telex or facsimile
transmission are deemed given upon receipt by the sender of the answer back (in the case of a
telex) or transmission confirmation (in the case of a facsimile transmission).

(b)  Entire Agreement . This Agreement supersedes any and all other agreements, either
oral or written, between the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement and
contains all of the covenants and agreements between the parties with respect to the subject matter
of this Agreement.

-14- 

(c)  Modification . No change or modification of this Agreement is valid or binding
upon the parties, nor will any waiver of any term or condition in the future be so binding, unless
the change or modification or waiver is in writing and signed by the parties to this Agreement.

(d)  Governing Law and Venue . The parties acknowledge and agree that this Agreement
and the obligations and undertakings of the parties under this Agreement will be performable in
Irving, Dallas County, Texas. This Agreement is governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
laws of the State of Texas. If any action is brought to enforce or interpret this Agreement, venue
for the action will be in Dallas County, Texas.

(e)  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which
constitutes an original, but all of which constitutes one document.

(f)  Costs . If any action at law or in equity is necessary to enforce or interpret the
terms of this Agreement, each party shall bear its own costs and expenses.

(g)  Estate . If the Executive dies prior to the expiration of the Term or during a
period when monies are owing to him, any monies that may be due him from the Company under this
Agreement as of the date of his death shall be paid to his estate and as when otherwise payable.

(h)  Assignment . The Company shall have the right to assign this Agreement to its
successors or assigns. The terms  successors  and  assigns  shall include any person, corporation,
partnership or other entity that buys all or substantially all of the Company s assets or all of
its stock, or with which the Company merges or consolidates. The rights, duties and benefits to
the Executive hereunder are personal to him, and no such right or benefit may be assigned by him.

(i)  Binding Effect . This Agreement is binding upon the parties hereto, together with
their respective executors, administrators, successors, personal representatives, heirs and
permitted assigns.

(j)  Waiver of Breach . The waiver by the Company or the Executive of a breach of any
provision of this Agreement by the Executive or the Company may not operate or be construed as a
waiver of any subsequent breach.

Remainder of page intentionally blank 

-15- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first above
written.

By: 
       
     /s/ Frank C. Mroczka 

Frank C. Mroczka 

ZALE DELAWARE, INC. 

By:

/s/Betsy Burton 

Its:

CEO 

-16- 

</EX-10.14>

<EX-10.18>
 10
 d40232exv10w18.htm
 ZALE CORPORATION BONUS PLAN

exv10w18 

EXHIBIT 10.18

Zale Corporation has requested confidential treatment for certain portions of this document
pursuant to an application for confidential treatment sent to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Zale Corporation has omitted such portions from this filing and filed them separately
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such omissions are designated   ** . 

ZALE CORPORATION BONUS PLAN 
(As of August 1, 2006)

Zale Corporation is committed to building and maintaining quality management and to encouraging
maximum focus on business environment. This Plan has been developed to allow all eligible
management the opportunity to receive an annual bonus based on our success.

Payouts under this Plan are intended to constitute  qualified performance-based compensation  for
purposes of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.

ELIGIBILITY 

Management of Zale Corporation, as selected by the
Compensation Committee.

MEASURES 

The Management Bonus Plan has three Components:

AND 
WEIGHTING 

1. Annual Company Performance Bonus is based on the following
performance measures:

Consolidated net income and Brand operating earnings targets shall be
established by the Compensation Committee of Zale Corporation s Board of
Directors (the  Compensation Committee ) on an annual basis prior to the
commencement of a fiscal year, except to the extent permitted by Section
162(m) to be established subsequently.

Following are the payout percentages:

2. 
        The Quarterly Comparable Store Sales Bonus performance measures are:

** 

3. Stretch Achievement Pool

10% Net Income over Stretch will be pooled and distributed
based on individual percent payout

BONUS OPPORTUNITY 

The Compensation Committee shall establish one or more
bonus opportunities between 5% and 150%. The bonus
opportunities may be applicable either to classes of employees,
such as Brand Presidents or to individual employees, as the
Compensation Committee may determine.

MAXIMUM PAYOUT 

No employee shall be entitled to receive a bonus of more than
$2,000,000 with respect to a fiscal year.

ADDITIONAL 
ELIGIBILITY 
REQUIREMENTS 

Must have joined Zale Corporation in a bonus eligible
position on or before February 1 st  of the
applicable fiscal year. A pro-rated payout will be based on
earnings in the eligible position through July 31 st 
of the applicable fiscal year.

Must be actively on payroll, or on an approved leave
of absence, on July 31 st  of the applicable fiscal
year.

If promoted to bonus eligible position on or before
February 1 st  of a fiscal year, bonus will be
pro-rated based on earnings in the eligible position through
July 31 st  of the applicable year.

If changed to non-bonus eligible position after
February 1 st  of a fiscal year, but on active
payroll on July 31 st  of the applicable fiscal year,
bonus will be pro-rated based upon earnings in the eligible
position.

Participants terminated due to a broadly based
reduction in force after February 1 st  of a fiscal
year will be eligible for a pro-rated payout based upon
earnings in a bonus eligible position. Those terminated due
to a broadly based reduction in force before February
1 st  of a fiscal year and those terminated for any
other reason during the fiscal year will not be eligible to
receive a bonus payout.

In the event of death, approved long-term disability
or approved retirement prior to February 1 st  of a
fiscal year, a pro-rated payment will be made to the
participant or the participant s estate based upon earnings in
a bonus eligible position.

Participants will be notified of their eligibility
level at the beginning of the fiscal year or when they become
bonus eligible. A  Bonus Participant Agreement  in such form
as Zale Corporation shall approve must be signed at that time.

A participant who received an overall  IR  rating for
the previous fiscal year will not be eligible. The last
performance rating on file will determine eligibility to
receive the Management Bonus.

ADMINISTRATION 

Management, for purposes of eligibility for participation
in this plan, shall include the Chief Executive Officer, President,
any vice president, any director level, and any manager level
employee (or the equivalents thereto even if designated by a
different title) of Zale Corporation and its subsidiaries.

The Compensation Committee may, at its sole discretion,
adjust bonus awards to reflect special or unusual circumstances of
any individual or individuals

Any employee on an approved leave of absence may, at the
Compensation Committee s sole discretion, have his or her bonus
reduced, pro rata, to reflect the period of absence.

All bonuses pursuant to this plan must be approved by the
Compensation Committee.

Payouts will occur within 60 days following the end of the
fiscal year to which the bonuses were earned.

At its election, prior, during or following completion of a
fiscal year, the Compensation Committee may pay bonuses with
respect to such fiscal year in Zale Corporation common stock.

This plan may be implemented using one or more documents
designated for classes of employees or individual employees

This plan shall be interpreted and administered in a manner
consistent with the awards hereunder constituting  qualified
performance-based compensation  for purposes of Section 162(m) of
the Internal Revenue Code.

Zale Corporation reserves the right to amend, modify, suspend or
terminate this plan and payouts hereunder in its sole discretion,
provided that stockholder approval shall be sought with respect to
any amendment that, absent stockholder approval, would negatively
impact the status of payouts under this plan for purposes of
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.  

Nothing in this plan shall be construed as a contract of employment.  

</EX-10.18>

<EX-10.21>
 11
 d40232exv10w21.htm
 BASE SALARIES

exv10w21 

Exhibit 10.21

BASE SALARY AND TARGET BONUS 
FOR THE NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

The following table sets forth the annual base salaries and of the Chief Executive
Officer and the four other most highly compensated executive officers of Zale Corporation (the
 Company ) for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2006, and the target bonus for each such executive
officer under the Company s executive bonus program as a percentage of annual base salary.

For additional information regarding the compensation of the Company s executive officers,
please refer to the information under the heading  Executive and Director Compensation  in the
Company s Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, which has been filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission

</EX-10.21>

<EX-21>
 12
 d40232exv21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY  

The following companies are subsidiaries of Zale Corporation (1):

Zale Delaware, Inc. (1)

Zale International, Inc. (1)

The following are subsidiaries of Zale Delaware, Inc.:

Zale Puerto Rico, Inc. (2)

Dobbins Jewelers, Inc. (3)

Jewelers Financial Services, Inc. (1)

Zale Life Insurance Company (4)

Zale Indemnity Company (5)

Jewel Re-Insurance Ltd. (6)

Zale Employees Child Care Association, Inc. (5)

Jewelers Credit Corporation (1)

ZAP, Inc. (1)

TXDC, LP (DDCC, Inc. Limited Partner) (5)

DDCC, Inc. (1)

The following companies are subsidiaries of Zale International, Inc.:

Zale Canada Holding, LP (Zale Corporation, Limited Partner) (7)

FINCO Holding, LP (Zale Canada Holding LP, Limited Partner) (7)

FINCO Partnership, LP (FINCO Holding LP, Limited Partner) (7)

The following company is a subsidiary of FINCO Holding, LP:

Zale Canada Co. (8)

The following company is a subsidiary of Zale Canada Co.:

Zale Canada Diamond Sourcing, Inc. (8)

State / Province / Country of Organization:  
(1) Delaware 
(2) Puerto Rico 
(3) Guam 
(4) Arizona 
(5) Texas 
(6) Barbados 
(7) New Brunswick, Canada 
(8) Nova Scotia, Canada

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 13
 d40232exv23w1.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

exv23w1 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors 
Zale Corporation:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statement (No.
333-67527, 333-51607, 333-20673, 333-01789, 333-87782, 333-53802, 333-53804,
333-117249, and 333-130246) on Form S-8 of Zale Corporation and subsidiaries of our
report dated October 12, 2006, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Zale
Corporation and subsidiaries as of July 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders  investment, and cash flows for each of the
years in the three-year period ended July 31, 2006, which report appears in the July
31, 2006, annual report on Form 10-K of Zale Corporation. Our report refers to the
adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share
Based Payment. 

Our report dated October 12, 2006, on management s assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting as of July 31, 2006, expresses our opinion that the Company
did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of July 31,
2006, because of the effect of material weaknesses on the achievement of the
objectives of the control criteria and contains an explanatory paragraph that states
that the following material weakness has been identified and included in management s
assessment as of July 31,2006:

The Company did not maintain effective internal controls to ensure
the accounting for certain derivative financial instrument in accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities  (SFAS 133). Specifically, the Company had
inadequate policies and procedures in place to ensure compliance with the
documentation requirements of SFAS 133 at inception of the hedge relationship and
failed to properly assess effectiveness and measure ineffectiveness at inception
and on a quarterly basis. In addition, the Company did not have resources with
sufficient technical experience related to the application of the provisions of
SFAS 133. These deficiencies resulted in errors related to the recognition and
classification of gains and losses on certain derivative financial instruments in
the Company s financial statements. This deficiency results in more than a remote
likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial
statements would not be prevented or detected. 

KPMG LLP

Dallas, Texas 
October 12, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 14
 d40232exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATION 

I, Mary E. Burton, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Zale Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which
such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements
and other financial information included in this report fairly present
in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented
in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s)
and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s)
and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: October 12, 2006  
     By:   
     /s/ Mary E. Burton

Mary E. Burton 
President and Chief Executive Officer, 
Director 
(principal executive officer of the registrant)  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 15
 d40232exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

CERTIFICATION 

I, George R. Mihalko, Jr., certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K
of Zale Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements
and other financial information included in this report fairly present
in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented
in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s)
and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s)
and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

By:   
                                       /s/ George R. Mihalko, Jr.

Date: October 12, 2006  
       
     George R. Mihalko, Jr.  

Chief Financial  Officer, Chief Administrative Officer,  and Director 
(principal financial officer of the registrant)  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 16
 d40232exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

Certification Pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C.   1350) 

The undersigned, as the Chief Executive Officer of Zale Corporation, certifies, to the best of
her knowledge, that the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006, which
accompanies this certification fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the information contained in the periodic report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Zale
Corporation at the dates and for the periods indicated. The foregoing certification is made
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C.   1350) and shall not be
relied upon for any other purpose.

This 12th day of October, 2006  
     By:   
     /s/ Mary E. Burton

Mary E. Burton 
President and Chief Executive Officer,  Director 
(principal executive officer of the registrant)  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 17
 d40232exv32w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

exv32w2 

EXHIBIT 32.2 

Certification Pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C.   1350) 

The undersigned, as the Chief Financial Officer of Zale Corporation, certifies, to the
best of his knowledge, that the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006,
which accompanies this certification fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the information contained in the periodic report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Zale
Corporation at the dates and for the periods indicated. The foregoing certification is made
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C.   1350) and shall not be
relied upon for any other purpose.

This 12 th  day of October, 2006.  
     By:   
     /s/ George R. Mihalko, Jr.

George R. Mihalko, Jr 
Chief Financial Officer, 
Chief Administrative Officer, 
and Director 
(principal financial officer of the registrant)  

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.2>
 18
 d40232exv99w2.htm
 COMPENSATION COMMITTEE CHARTER

exv99w2 

EXHIBIT 99.2 

ZALE CORPORATION 
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE CHARTER  
(As of August 2006)

Purposes 

The primary purposes of the Compensation Committee are to (1) oversee the compensation of the
Company s officers, (2) approve and recommend to the Board the Company s policies, programs,
procedures and objectives for compensating its officers and key employees and (3) administer the
Company s equity based incentive compensation plans. Its responsibilities in that regard include:

Monitoring compensation practices at other companies generally and
in the retail industry in particular; 

Establishing corporate goals and objectives with respect to
compensation; and 

Overseeing the Company s compensation setting practices. 

In discharging its duties, the Committee is empowered to investigate any matter brought to its
attention with full access to all Company books, records, facilities, personnel, legal counsel and
independent auditors, along with the sole power to retain and terminate outside counsel or other
experts for this purpose and to approve their fees and other retention terms.

The Committee shall review the adequacy of this charter on an annual basis and recommend any
appropriate changes to the Board for consideration.

Membership 

Appointment and Removal  . The Committee shall be appointed by the Board and shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board for such term as the Board may decide or, with respect to an individual
Committee member, until such Committee member is no longer a Board member. The Board shall
designate the chairperson of the Committee.

Number and Meetings  . The Committee shall be comprised of not less than three members of the
Board. The Committee shall meet as often as necessary to fulfill its responsibilities.

Independence   .  The Committee members will each qualify as (1) an  independent director  under
the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, (2) an  outside director  within the meaning of Section
162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and (3) a  non-employee director  within the meaning of
Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in each case as such requirements may be
interpreted or amended from time-to-time by the promulgating authority. These requirements as
currently in effect are summarized in  Annex A  hereto. Accordingly, the members of the Committee
will be directors who the Board affirmatively concludes have no material relationship to the
Company, as determined by the Board, either

directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of any organization that has a relationship with
the Company.

The failure of the Committee to satisfy the independence requirements set forth above shall
not invalidate any actions taken by the Committee.

Responsibilities 

The following functions shall be the common, recurring activities of the Committee in carrying
out its duties.

1.  Executive Compensation Policies and Programs . The Committee shall review, approve
and administer the Company s compensation policies and programs for officers and key employees.

2.  Director Compensation . The Committee shall periodically review the status of Board
compensation policies and shall discuss the results of such review with the Board. The Committee
shall not, however, have the authority to approve or determine director compensation.

3.  Approval of Newly-Hired and Promoted Officers . The Committee shall review and
approve the hiring of officers and the promotion of employees to officer positions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board must approve the hiring of a Chief Executive Officer or
the promotion of an individual to that position.

4.  Chief Executive Officer Compensation . The Committee, acting together with any
other independent directors who have advised the Chairperson of the Committee that they would like
to participate, shall (a) review and approve any employment agreements or arrangements with the
Chief Executive Officer of the Company, (b) review and approve, at least annually, corporate goals
and objectives relevant to the compensation of the Chief Executive Officer, (c) evaluate the
performance of the Chief Executive Officer in light of those corporate goals and objectives, and
(d) have sole authority to determine and approve the compensation level of the Chief Executive
Officer. The Committee shall report the determination of the Chief Executive Officer s
compensation to the Board.

5.  Non-CEO Compensation . The Committee shall (a) review and approve any employment
agreements or arrangements with the non-CEO officers of the Company, and (b) review and approve the
compensation levels of non-CEO officers. The Committee shall report the determination of the
non-CEO officers  compensation to the Board.

6.  Incentive Compensation Plans . The Committee shall review and approve incentive
compensation plans (including the guidelines and rules thereunder) and the grants thereunder. The
Committee shall report the determination of the incentive compensation plans and the grants
thereunder to the Board.

7.  Equity-Based Plans . The Committee shall review and approve equity based plans
(including the guidelines and rules thereunder) and the grants thereunder. The Committee shall
report the determination of the equity based plans and the grants thereunder to the Board.

2 

8.  Certain Other Plans . Unless expressly provided otherwise, the Committee shall
administer the Company s equity based incentive compensation plans and other plans adopted by the
Board that contemplate administration by a Board committee;  provided, however,  that, absent express
approval of the Board, the Committee will not administer or have oversight of the administration of
any employee benefit plan subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.

9.  Regulatory Compliance . The Committee shall, in consultation with appropriate
officers of the Company, oversee regulatory compliance with respect to compensation matters,
including overseeing any compensation programs intended to preserve tax deductibility and, as may
be required, establishing performance goals and determining whether performance goals have been
attained for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.

10.  Proxy Statement Report . The Committee shall prepare any report by the Committee
required by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission to be included in the Company s
annual proxy statement or annual report on Form 10-K.

11.  Review of Other Matters . The Committee shall review and discuss such other
matters that relate to the accounting, auditing and financial reporting practices and procedures of
the Company as the Committee may, in its own discretion, deem desirable in connection with the
review functions described above.

12.  Other Duties . The Committee shall perform any other duties or responsibilities
delegated to the Committee by the Board from time to time.

13.  Reports to the Board . The Committee shall report regularly to the Board.

14.  Annual Evaluation . The Committee shall conduct and review with the Board annually
an evaluation of the Committee s performance.

3 

Annex A   
 Compensation Committee 
Independence Requirements 

NYSE Rules.   No director qualifies as  independent  unless the Board affirmatively determines
that the director has no material relationship with the Company (either directly or as a partner,
shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship with the Company). In addition,
the following directors shall not satisfy the definition of  independent :

(i) 
       
     A director who is an employee, or whose immediate family member is an executive
officer, of the Company is not independent until three years after the end of such
employment relationship. 

(ii) 
       
     A director who receives, or whose immediate family member receives, more than
$100,000 per year in direct compensation from the Company, other than director and
committee fees and pension or other forms of deferred compensation for prior service
(provided such compensation is not contingent in any way on continued service), is not
independent until three years after he or she ceases to receive more than $100,000 per
year in such compensation. 

(iii) 
       
     A director who is affiliated with or employed by, or whose immediate family
member is affiliated with or employed in a professional capacity by, a present or
former internal or external auditor of the Company is not  independent  until three
years after the end of the affiliation or the employment or auditing relationship. 

(iv) 
       
     A director who is employed, or whose immediate family member is employed, as an
executive officer of another company where any of the Company s present executives
serve on that company s compensation committee is not  independent  until three years
after the end of such service or the employment relationship. 

(v) 
       
     A director who is an executive officer or an employee, or whose immediate
family member is an executive officer, of a company that makes payments to, or receives
payments from, the Company for property or services in an amount which, in any single
fiscal year, exceeds the greater of $1 million or 2% of such other company s
consolidated gross revenues, is not  independent  until three years after falling below
such threshold. 

Internal Revenue Code.   For purposes of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, a member
cannot (1) be a current employee of the Company or an affiliate, (2) be a former employee of the
Company or an affiliate who receives compensation for prior services (other than benefits under a
tax-qualified retirement plan) during the taxable year, (3) be a former officer of the Company or
an affiliate or (4) receive remuneration from the Company or an affiliate, either directly or
indirectly, in any capacity other than as a director. (For this purpose, remuneration includes any
payment in exchange for goods or services). The foregoing four requirements shall be interpreted
consistent with Treas. Reg.  1.162-27(e)(3).

SEC Section 16.   For purposes of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act, no member of the Committee
can (1) currently be an officer (as defined in Rule 16a-1(f) of the Exchange Act) of the Company or
a subsidiary of the Company, or otherwise be currently employed by the Company or a subsidiary of
the Company, (2) receive compensation, either directly or indirectly,

4 

from the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, for services rendered as a consultant or in any
capacity other than as a director, except for an amount that does not exceed the dollar amount for
which disclosure would be required pursuant to Reg. S-K, Item 404(a) of the Exchange Act, (3)
possess an interest in any other transaction for which disclosure would be required pursuant to
Rule 404(a) or (4) engage in a business relationship for which disclosure would be required
pursuant to Rule 404(b) of the Exchange Act.

5 

</EX-99.2>

