<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061214_10-K_edgar_data_26537_0000950133-06-005334_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>708249</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>224084</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>297819</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>54</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950133-06-005334.hdr.sgml : 20061214
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061214172737
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950133-06-005334
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061214
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061214

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ARGON ST, Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000026537
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC [3829]
		IRS NUMBER:				381873250
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-08193
		FILM NUMBER:		061278109

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8419 TERMINAL ROAD
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 1869
		CITY:			NEWINGTON
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			22122-1430
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(703)550-7000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8419 TERMINAL ROAD
		CITY:			NEWINGTON
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			22122-1430

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SENSYTECH INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20000118

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SENSYS TECHNOLOGIES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980615

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	DAEDALUS ENTERPRISES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Sv+4uziqNYyOmNG7FZ5C25KlFq6uvGPBWEGumvI8QfKLhRNh0aUdweNJIcC//FdE
 K8s1ySjgtpqUfTTJS8bxVg==

 0000950133-06-005334.txt : 20061214

10-K
 1
 w28026e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K  ARGON ST, INC.

e10vk 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

For the Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2006  

For the transition period from                        to                        

Commission File Number 000-08193 

ARGON ST, INC.  

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter ) 

Delaware

38-1873250 

(State or other jurisdiction of

(I.R.S. Employer 

incorporation or organization)

Identification No.) 

12701 Fair Lakes Circle, Suite 800, Fairfax Virginia 22033   
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code  (703) 322-0881 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Name of Exchange on 

Title of Class  
       
     Which Registered 

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of the Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer.

Large accelerated filer           Accelerated filer          Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). Yes     No    

As of December 4, 2006, there were 22,237,734 shares of the registrant s common
stock, par value $.01 per share, outstanding. The aggregate market value of the Registrant s
common stock held by non-affiliates as of December 4, 2006 was approximately $297.7 million,
computed by reference to the closing sales price of such stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market
as of December 4, 2006.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

Part III of this report incorporates by reference specific portions of the registrant s proxy
statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on February 28, 2007.

2 

ARGON ST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

For the Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2006  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PART I 

Item 1. Business

4 

Item 1A. Business Risks

16 

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

27 

Item 2. Properties

27 

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

29 

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

29 

Supplemental Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant

29 

PART II 

Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

30 

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

31 

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

32 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks

44 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

45 

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

72 

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

72 

Item 9B. Other Information

72 

PART III 

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

73 

Item 11. Executive Compensation

73 

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

73 

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

73 

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services

73 

PART IV 

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

74 

Signatures

76 

Exhibits

77-81 

3 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Business Description. 

We are a leading systems engineering, development and services company providing full-service
C4ISR (command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance)
systems and services to a wide range of defense and intelligence customers. Our systems and
services enable our customers to perform many functions critical to their missions, including:

Signals Intelligence (SIGINT):   Collecting information and producing intelligence
from the detection, interception and evaluation of signals, including communication
signals (COMINT) and electromagnetic signals, such as radar (ELINT). 

Electronic Warfare (EW):   Detecting, identifying and countering adversary forces,
weapons and sensors through collection of adversary signals. Measures include
launching deceptive signals and electronic counter-measures and using electronic
support measures (ESM) to identify and locate emitters on both platforms and weapons. 

Information Operations (IO):   Employment of non-lethal measures to exploit,
influence and manipulate an enemy s C4ISR processes, including radio and network
communications and measures, to protect own force and friendly information and
sensors. 

Acoustic Operations   :  Employment of acoustic sensors and signals to detect, identify
and counter undersea threats including, but not limited to, enemy torpedoes. 

Threat Simulation   :  The use of computer and virtual based replication of signals and
sensors for training and analysis of adversary capabilities. 

Imaging   :  Production and analysis of information from light spectrum sources,
including multispectral, hyperspectral, infra-red, electro-optical and visible light. 

Communications:   Deployment of mobile, terrestrial, and satellite radio receivers
and transmitters, to include point to point links and extensive networks, supporting
tactical operations, intelligence production and dissemination, movement of data and
information, and management of the radio frequency spectrum. 

Services:   The provision of material, training and support engineering expertise to
enable and sustain readiness, systems operations, and mission success. 

Our systems are used on a broad range of military and strategic platforms including surface
ships, submarines, unmanned underwater vehicles (UUV), aircraft, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV),
land mobile vehicles, fixed site installations and relocatable land sites.

We develop many of our systems using innovative design methodologies that incorporate
proprietary software and design processes and commercially available hardware and software in
configurations capable of being more readily deployed, adapted or upgraded by us or the customer.
This system design methodology allows us to adapt our software modules and processes to meet
complex specifications on varied platforms without significant re-design efforts. The benefits of
our system design methodology include shorter development and implementation schedules, system
flexibility, improved interoperability with systems not developed by us, and reduced system and
upgrade costs to our customers. Our communications systems provide state of the art capabilities
from simple, secure data transfer between tactical platforms to the high impact realization of
complex network centricity. Our
delivery of expert services, systems engineering, and pivotal domain knowledge complements and
sustains the operational success of our systems.

4 

Our business is conducted primarily through contracts with the U.S. government. For the fiscal
year ended September 30, 2006, 74% of our revenues were from contracts for which we were the prime
contractor, 65% of our revenues were from fixed-price contracts and 51% of our revenues were from
sole-source contracts. Our primary customer is the Department of Defense. We derive a majority of
our revenues from various agencies and commands within the U.S. Navy. We also provide systems and
products to other U.S. government agencies and major domestic prime contractors, and to certain
U.S. government-approved foreign governments, agencies and defense contractors.

Available Information 

Our headquarters are located at 12701 Fair Lakes Circle, Fairfax, VA 22033. Our website
address is  http://www.argonst.com . The information contained on our website is not incorporated by
reference into this Annual Report. All reports we filed electronically with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC), including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and other information and amendments to those
reports filed electronically (if applicable), are accessible at no cost on our website as soon as
reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed or furnished to the SEC. These filings
are also accessible on the SEC s Web site at  www.sec.gov  .  The public may read and copy any
materials we filed with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington,
DC 20549. The public may obtain information from the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330.

Corporate History 

Our company today is the result of the September 2004 merger of privately-held Argon
Engineering Associates, Inc. and publicly-held Sensytech, Inc. Argon Engineering was founded in
1997 by Terry Collins, Victor Sellier and Thomas Murdock to develop advanced signal intelligence
systems for the U.S. Navy. During the following years, Argon Engineering grew rapidly and expanded
its technical expertise and customer base.

Sensytech was formed by the 1998 merger of S.T. Research Corporation (founded in 1972) and
Daedalus Enterprises (founded in 1968). S.T. Research produced communications signals intelligence
and passive electronic warfare systems, while Daedalus Enterprises produced airborne imaging
systems and services. In 2002, Sensytech acquired substantially all of the assets of FEL
Corporation, adding capabilities in electronic warfare, radar simulator products, communications
data links, naval mine warfare and anti-submarine warfare systems. In 2004, Sensytech acquired
Imaging Sensors and Systems, Inc. in Winter Park, FL to add a line of ground, shipboard, and
airborne forward looking infra-red (FLIR) and visible spectrum imaging systems. Also in 2004,
Sensytech formed ST Productions in Smithfield, PA to expand Sensytech s manufacturing and test
capabilities.

The Argon Engineering/Sensytech merger combined Argon Engineering s innovative communications
signal intercept and processing systems with Sensytech s broad and complementary range of
electronic intelligence, electronic warfare and imaging systems, resulting in a broad based C4ISR
provider for the defense and intelligence markets. The merger expanded our base of existing and
potential new customers, allowed us to enact several initiatives using the combined company s
technological expertise and experience, and enabled us to use our manufacturing capacity more
efficiently.

During the year ended September 30, 2006, we acquired all the common stock of Radix
Technologies, Inc., San Diego Research Center, Inc. and Innovative Research, Ideas and Services
Corp. (IRIS), as well as certain assets of ProDesign Solutions, LLC. As one of our key growth
strategies, we intend to pursue additional strategic acquisitions in the future.

5 

Recent Developments 

In 2006, we continued our success in the development and delivery of C4ISR systems, products
and services. We expanded our customer base and improved diversity in our products and services.
We also faced several challenges in our efforts to grow our business as a leading provider of
state-of-the-art C4ISR systems. Among the significant developments over the year are the following:

Mergers and Acquisitions.   In 2006, we acquired three leading edge companies which
complement our existing capabilities in customer base and add diversity within our
addressable market. Radix Technologies, Inc. provides complementary signal processing
capabilities that we believe will create new business opportunities for the combined
entity. The San Diego Research Center, Inc. is a well recognized and admired company
which adds a wealth of communications, network operations and management, technical
innovation, particularly in the defense wireless communications sector. Innovative
Research, Ideas and Services Corporation brings to our offering a critical enabling
capability for the realization of data fusion across sensors and data. In addition, we
acquired certain assets of ProDesign Solutions, LLC that we believe will enhance our
ability to adapt and protect our systems in a wide variety of environmental conditions. 

CMMI Level 3 Certification.   The Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) was
established by the Software Engineering Institute as a set of process improvement
models for software and systems engineering. We achieved this certification in the
summer of 2006 through the exemplary efforts of our staff. We believe the
certification will enable us to compete for contracts across a wider range of size and
complexity and will underscore our credibility as a first tier contractor with current
and potential customers. While the process taxed resources across our entire company,
including substantial time from key personnel, we attained CMMI Level 3 without a delay
in any program. 

Ships Signals Exploitation Equipment (SSEE) Increments E and F.   This program, to
design and develop Information Operation systems for the U.S. Navy, was first awarded
to Argon ST following a competitive procurement process in 2001. Our partnership with
the U.S. Navy grew stronger with the approval of additional SSEE Increment E system in
February 2006 and our competitive win of the contract to develop the next generation of
these shipboard systems, known as SSEE Increment F. We believe these awards solidify
Argon ST s position as a dominant supplier of surface ship cryptologic systems to our
Navy. In addition, the awards have led to opportunities with the U.S. Coast Guard and
international customers. 

Major Program Success.   STAKECLAIM, a land based cryptologic system required by the
government, was our largest and most complex undertaking of all systems developed under
the LIGHTHOUSE architecture (LIGHTHOUSE is our collection of software assets developed
around a software product line concept). We believe that STAKECLAIM s acceptance by
the government and implementation in a demanding operational environment improves our
ability to increase business in this system area. 

Aerial Common Sensor (ACS).   We believe that our development work to provide COMINT
systems for the Army s ACS program was highly respected by the prime contractor and by
the government customer. In addition, our involvement in ACS, represented expansion of
LIGHTHOUSE systems to the Army airborne community. The ACS program was cancelled in
January 2006 due to concerns about the suitability of the proposed aircraft platform.
This cancellation removed approximately $61 million from our backlog. While we were
able to add additional revenue from the airborne market in 2006, the ACS cancellation
negatively affected our 2006 revenue and slowed our plans to institute LIGHTHOUSE as
the common airborne architecture across the cryptologic community and international
market.

6 

Submarine Programs.   We have successfully provided ESM and cryptologic support
systems on U.S. and U.K. submarines since 1999. However, our 2006 revenue from the
submarine market
decreased in 2006 over 2005 because our existing contracts fully satisfy the
inventory requirements of available platforms. While our plans call for periodic
updates and technical refresh of all these systems, their architecture remains
state-of-the-art, and therefore we do not anticipate near-term increases in revenue
in this area. 

Surface Ship Torpedo Defense.   Our surface ship torpedo defense (SSTD) systems
continue to be deployed in both the U.S. market and overseas. We believe the challenge
that diesel electric submarines present to U.S. and partner nations will amplify the
need for a viable torpedo defense systems. While we were successful in winning a
contract with the Navy in November 2006 to upgrade the AN/SLQ-25A SSTD system, delays
in the acquisition process had a negative effect on our expected fiscal 2006 financial
results. 

Segments 

We have reviewed our business operations and determined that we operate in a single
homogeneous business segment. Our financial information is reviewed and evaluated by our chief
operating decision maker on a consolidated basis relating to the single business segment. We sell
similar products and services that exhibit similar economic characteristics to similar classes of
customers, primarily the U.S. government. Our revenue is internally reviewed monthly by management
on an individual contract basis as a single business segment.

Technology and Applications 

Most of our systems involve the detection and processing of information collected from the
radio frequency portion of the electromagnetic spectrum, particularly communications and radar
signals. We also provide underwater acoustic systems, imaging systems and systems that detect,
intercept and process information passed on networks. Our systems typically require significant
amounts of complex software that implements control and interface functions as well as real-time
digital signal processing algorithms that are often classified. The software must track, analyze
and manage large databases, platform location and orientation, precise time, and many other factors
that can affect performance.

Typically, our system development for each potential platform is contracted and managed
independently by the government and has a unique set of specifications driven by particular system
requirements, including intended functionality and platform, geographic region of use, and source
of intelligence. Our contracts generally require that we develop test plans and procedures and test
our systems to verify conformance to customer requirements prior to acceptance. After we have
developed a system to customer specifications, the customer often purchases an additional number of
these systems that are identical and meet its specifications. In these situations, production
requires minimal additional engineering services or effort and results in efficient, lower-cost
production. In some cases, standardized systems can also be sold to other customers without
modification.

We develop many of our systems using innovative methodologies that incorporate proprietary
software processes and commercially available hardware and software in configurations capable of
being more readily deployed, adapted or upgraded by us or the customer. This design process differs
from legacy C4ISR systems in which the software and hardware are designed to work only on the
applicable system. Our system design methodology allows us to adapt software modules and processes
to meet complex specifications on varied platforms without significant re-design efforts. The
benefits of our system design methodology include shorter development and implementation schedules,
system flexibility, improved interoperability with systems not developed by us, and reduced system
and upgrade costs to our customers.

We actively pursue new technology for future C4ISR applications. Some new technology is
developed through our internally funded research and development programs, but a larger percentage
is developed under research and development contracts with government laboratories, agencies,
military and intelligence organizations, and research facilities such as the Defense Advanced
Research Project Agency (DARPA), the Air Force Research Lab, the Office of Naval Research (ONR),
and others. This research aims to prove concepts, reduce risk, and demonstrate feasibility of new
technology for use in future system developments and procurements, which improves our ability to
support our customers  missions. The knowledge and understanding we gain from this research often
can be an advantage in our efforts to win additional contracts, including production
contracts. Recently, we have been performing research and development on areas such as advanced
satellite communication systems, robust navigation systems, networked cryptologic operations,
multi-intelligence sensors for small airborne reconnaissance, laser detection (LADAR) systems for
precise imaging, cognitive radios, and other classified technology.

7 

Customers 

Our systems are currently sold primarily for the ultimate use of either the U.S. government or
certain government-approved foreign governments. As a result, most of our contracts are either
directly with the U.S. government or a prime contractor whose contact is direct with a government.

The table below identifies the ultimate sources of our historical revenues. Although our
revenue is dominated by our work with various agencies and commands within the U.S. Navy, other
current U.S. government customers include the U.S. Army, the National Security Agency (NSA), the
U.S. Air Force, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), the National Reconnaissance
Office, the U.S. Marines, U.S. Special Operations Command (SOCOM), the Central Intelligence Agency
(CIA), the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).
Foreign customer sales typically involve U.S. government allies and are often funded by the U.S.
government.

Government Contracts 

Most of our business is conducted under contracts related to U.S. government security
requirements. Certain important aspects of our government contracts are described below.

Bidding Process  

We are awarded government contracts either on a sole-source basis or through a competitive
bidding process.

Sole-source contracts.  The U.S. government awards sole-source contracts when it
determines that a single contractor has an expertise or technology that is superior to
that of other available contractors. Sole-source contracts are awarded without a formal
competition. Potential suppliers compete informally for sole-source contracts through
research and development investment and marketing efforts. To obtain a sole-source
contract, a contractor must identify the government s requirements early and
demonstrate a distinguishing expertise or technology promptly after the government has
identified a requirement. 

Competitive-bid contracts.  The U.S. government awards competitive-bid contracts
based on proposal evaluation criteria established by the procuring agency.
Competitive-bid contracts are awarded after a formal bid and proposal competition among
providers. Interested contractors prepare a bid and proposal in response to the
agency s request for proposal or request for information. A bid and proposal is usually
prepared in a short time period in response to a deadline, and requires the extensive
involvement of numerous technical and administrative personnel. Following award,
competitive-bid contracts may be challenged by unsuccessful bidders in a variety of
ways. 

8 

The table below shows the proportion of our revenues under sole-source and competitive-bid
contracts for the periods indicated:

The increase in competitive contracts is largely due to a major shipboard contract awarded during
fiscal year 2006.

Material Government Contract Provisions  

The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to Congressional appropriations. Although
multi-year contracts may be authorized in connection with major procurements, Congress generally
appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis, even though a program may continue for many years.
Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially, and additional funds are
committed only as Congress makes further appropriations.

All contracts with the U.S. government contain provisions, and are subject to laws and
regulations, that give the government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial
contracts, including rights that allow the government to:

terminate existing contracts for convenience, which affords the U.S. government the
right to terminate the contract in whole or in part anytime it wants for any reason or
no reason, as well as for default; 

reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts, if its requirements or budgetary
constraints change; 

cancel multi-year contracts and related orders, if funds for contract performance
for any subsequent year become unavailable; 

claim rights in products and systems produced by its contractor; 

adjust contract costs and fees on the basis of audits completed by its agencies; 

suspend or debar a contractor from doing business with the U.S. government; and 

control or prohibit the export of products. 

Generally, government contracts are subject to oversight audits by government representatives.
Provisions in these contracts permit termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the
government s convenience or upon contractor default under the contract. Compensation in the event
of a termination, if any, is limited to work completed at the time of termination. In the event of
termination for convenience, the contractor may receive a certain allowance for profit on the work
performed. Specific types of contracts can contain different termination effects, as described
below under  Government Contract Categories. 

Government Contract Categories  

Our U.S. government contracts include fixed-price contracts, cost reimbursable contracts
(including cost-plus-fixed fee, cost-plus-award fee, and cost-plus-incentive fee), and time and
materials contracts.

Fixed-price.  These contracts are not subject to adjustment by reason of costs incurred in the
performance of the contract. With this type of contract, we assume the risk that we will be able to
perform at a cost below the fixed-price, except for costs incurred because of contract changes
ordered by the customer. Upon the U.S. government s
termination of a fixed-price contract, generally we would be entitled to payment for items
delivered to and accepted by the U.S. government and, if the termination is at the U.S.
government s convenience, for payment of fair compensation of work performed plus the costs of
settling and paying claims by any terminated subcontractors, other settlement expenses and a
reasonable allowance for profit on the costs incurred.

9 

Cost reimbursable.  Cost reimbursable contracts include cost-plus-fixed fee contracts,
cost-plus-award fee contracts and cost-plus-incentive fee contracts. Under each type of contract,
we assume the risk that we may not be able to recover costs if they are not allowable under the
contract terms or applicable regulations.

Cost-plus-fixed fee contracts are cost reimbursable contracts that provide for
payment to us of a negotiated fee that is fixed at the inception of the contract. This
fixed fee does not vary with actual cost of the contract, but may be adjusted as a
result of changes in the work to be performed under the contract. This contract poses
less risk than a fixed-price contract, but our ability to win future contracts from the
procuring agency may be adversely affected if we fail to perform within the maximum
cost set forth in the contract. 

A cost-plus-award fee contract is a cost reimbursable contract that provides for a
fee consisting of a base amount (which may be zero) fixed at inception of the contract
and an award amount, based upon the government s satisfaction with our performance
under the contract. With this type of contract, we assume the risk that we may not
receive the award fee, or only a portion of it, if we do not perform satisfactorily. 

A cost-plus-incentive fee contract is a cost reimbursable contract that provides for
an initially negotiated fee to be adjusted later by a formula based on the relationship
of total allowable costs to total target costs. 

We typically experience lower profit margins under cost reimbursable contracts than under
fixed-price contracts. Upon the termination of a cost-plus type contract described above, generally
we would be entitled to reimbursement of our allowable costs and, if the termination is at the U.S.
government s convenience, a total fee proportionate to the percentage of work completed under the
contract.

Time and materials.  These contracts require us to deliver services on the basis of direct labor
hours at specified fixed hourly rates that include all of our direct and indirect costs, such as
wages, overhead, general and administrative expenses, and profit, and other materials at cost. With
respect to these contracts, we assume the risk that we will be able to perform these contracts at
these negotiated hourly rates.

The table below shows our revenues for the periods indicated by government contract type:

Regulation  

We are subject to various statutes and regulations applicable to government contracts
generally and defense contracts specifically. These statutes and regulations carry substantial
penalty provisions including suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting
for a period of time, if we are found to have violated these regulations. Among the causes for
debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity,
export control, government security regulations, employment practices, the protection of the
environment, the accuracy of records, and the recording of costs. We carefully monitor all of our
contracts and contractual efforts to minimize the possibility of any violation of these
regulations.

10 

As a government contractor, we are subject to government audits, inquiries and investigations.
We have experienced minimal audit adjustments in the past. The Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA)
has completed its audit of Argon Engineering s contracts through the fiscal year ended September
30, 2001, and of Sensytech s contracts through the fiscal year ended September 30, 2003, and we are
subject to adjustment on our performance during subsequent years.

Subcontracts 

Revenues from contracts in which we acted as a subcontractor to other contractors represented
26%, 22%, and 13% of our revenues for fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004,
respectively. Unlike direct government contracts, contracting parties typically have more freedom
to negotiate terms of subcontracts. Based on the customers  requirements, our subcontracts may or
may not be governed by some of the terms and provisions commonly found in government contracts,
including those described above.

Backlog 

Our backlog consists of the following as of September 30:

We define backlog as the funded and unfunded amount provided in our contracts, less previously
recognized revenue. Contract options are estimated separately and not included in backlog. Backlog
does not include the value of a contract where the customer has given permission to begin or
continue working, but where a formal contract or contract extension has not yet been signed.

Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts, because Congress often
appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though
the contract may call for performance that is expected to take a number of years.

From time to time, we will exclude from backlog portions of contract values of very long or
complex contracts where we judge revenue could be jeopardized by a change in government policy.
Because of possible future changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, backlog at
any particular date is not necessarily representative of actual sales to be expected for any
succeeding period, and actual sales for the year may not meet or exceed the backlog represented. We
may experience significant contract cancellations that were previously booked and included in
backlog.

Of the total backlog at September 30, 2005, approximately $60,556,000 pertained to the Aerial
Common Sensor (ACS) program, on which we were a subcontractor. On January 12, 2006, we received a
termination order from Lockheed Martin, our prime contractor, and the unfunded backlog was removed.
We continue to carry $278,000 of funded backlog as we negotiate termination costs with our prime
contractor.

Research and Development 

We conduct substantial research and development using both government and company funds.
During its early years, Argon Engineering used substantial internal investments to broaden the
capabilities of our product line, as customer-sponsored research was not sufficient to fund these
activities. During this period, Argon Engineering made focused research and development investments
in areas the company deemed critical to its product line development, and used these activities to
gain competitive advantage in future programs.

11 

Our current customers are now investing in new technologies required to sustain and improve
systems capabilities in a dynamic and increasingly complex threat environment. As a result, our
internal investments have shifted to examinations of future technologies and to products of
interest to potentially new customers.

Our continued success depends, in a large part, on our ability to develop and deliver new
technology, and to apply new technology developed by others to support our customers in meeting
their C4ISR mission objectives. Total research and development expenditures incurred by us consist
of the following for the fiscal years ended September 30:

Competition 

Our market is highly competitive and is served by companies of varying size and capability.
Large prime contractors who compete against us for C4ISR work include, but are not limited to,
Boeing, BAE Systems, General Dynamics, Harris Corporation, L-3 Communications, Lockheed Martin,
Northrop Grumman, and Raytheon. Medium size firms in this market include, but are not limited to,
Applied Signal Technologies, DRS Technologies, EDO Corporation, and Southwest Research Institute.

The competition for competitive-bid contracts differs from the competition for sole-source
contracts. Companies competing for competitive-bid contracts prepare bids and proposals in response
to either commercial or government requests and typically compete on price or best value. Potential
suppliers compete informally for sole-source contracts through research and development investment
and marketing efforts. The principal factors of competition for sole-source contracts include
investments in research and development, the ability to respond promptly to government needs,
product price relative to performance, quality, and customer support. We believe that we compete
effectively with respect to each of the factors upon which competitive and sole-source contracts
are awarded.

Environmental 

We incurred no material costs in the past two years related to environmental issues.

Employees 

Our success is dependent on the skills and dedication of our employees. Our professionals
include a mix of experienced professionals and recent college graduates, who combine the vitality
of new ideas and the latest technical skills with experience to meet the tremendous challenges
posed to a company operating in the rapidly changing security environment facing the U.S.
government and its allies today.

As of September 30, 2006, we had approximately 840 employees. Our business requires that a
large number of our technical employees obtain security clearances from the U.S. government, which
limits the available pool of eligible candidates for such positions to those who can satisfy the
prerequisites to obtaining these clearances. Approximately 81% of our staff has security
clearances and a majority of our cleared employees hold Top Secret/ Sensitive Compartmented
Information (TS/SCI) clearances. Our future success is dependent on attracting, retaining, and
motivating qualified key management and technical personnel, whose loss could adversely affect our
business materially.

12 

Industry Overview 

Government Spending  

The defense and intelligence community uses C4ISR systems on a wide and varied range of
platforms, settings and locations around the world in order to detect, locate, evaluate, identify
and respond to threats to the safety of the United States, its armed services and civilian
population. U.S. government spending in our industry is projected to increase as follows:

Department of Defense Budgets.  Department of Defense spending, including defense
spending for procurement and research and development, is projected to
increase from over $440 billion in FY07 to over $504 billion by 2011.
Additionally, the U.S. defense budget has been augmented by a number of wartime
supplemental appropriations since September 11, 2001, including supplemental
appropriations in the amounts of $29.4 billion in 2002, $78.5 billion in 2003, $87.0
billion in 2004, $81.4 billion in 2005 and $65.8 billion in 2006. 

C4ISR Spending.  The C4ISR market is growing substantially as a result of the events
of September 11, 2001, current defense and intelligence operations such as those in the
Middle East and the conflict in Iraq, and other defense and intelligence initiatives
related to modern threats and warfare. We expect C4ISR spending to continue to increase
substantially for the foreseeable future. 

Significant Industry Trends  

In addition to increased government funding, we expect the following trends to affect spending
priorities and C4ISR system development and investment:

Changing Communications Intelligence Needs.  Communications Intelligence (COMINT)
continues to be the premier source of information for supporting strategic decision
makers and tactical commanders. With the transition from a monolithic enemy in the
Cold War to the dispersed collection of possible enemies in asymmetric warfare, both
the nature of the target and the COMINT requirements have changed. Communications
equipment targeted by COMINT systems is no longer limited to long term, state
developed, military systems and now is the latest technology readily available in the
commercial communications market, (for example, cell phones). Geolocation is no longer
limited to the location of major enemy forces and strategic weapons, but now includes
an individual or specific computer. These realities of modern defense and security
radically change the requirements for a COMINT system. Today s successful COMINT
systems and designs must be as dynamic as those found in the commercial communications
market reprogrammable within a single mission and accommodating of new technology as it
becomes available with minimum impact and costs. Modern COMINT systems need to provide
essential information within the tempo of modern warfare. Commanders want to know
 what and where  in time to impact decisions with analytical insight added when time
and opportunity are available. 

Electronic Warfare/Information Operations.  Information operations and electronic
warfare have never been more important to warfighters and offer powerful new options to
commanders. Electronic Attack (EA) is increasingly becoming a weapon of choice for
both conflict management and non-lethal attack. We believe the trend towards the
weaponization of SIGINT will increase the priority for systems which can offer both
traditional ISR and EA. We also expect the need for brute force and smart jamming
against Improvised Explosive Devices (IED) to continue to be a critical requirement
anywhere the United States has military or civilian personnel in place. We believe the
technology foundation of EA systems can impact the IED challenge. 

13 

Multi-Intelligence Systems Integration.  Dating from the Cold War era, intelligence
systems were single discipline (e.g. COMINT) based and stood on their own individual
merit. Information and data analysis across disciplines was performed by examining the
end conclusions of these single discipline systems. The creditability of any single
discipline was frequently assigned based upon user bias or previous experience.
Factors such as the need for information inside the decision cycle of today s pace of
warfare, ready use and dissemination of information from previously restricted sources,
a proliferation of sensors, and improvements in making information available make a
compelling case for the integration of information at the first possible opportunity.
Warfighters today want  What is it, and where is it?  answered rapidly with clear
information integrated from all useful sources. Meeting this demand has a profound
impact on ISR system design. Modern ISR systems must develop and present extremely
accurate, reliable information in forms that can be readily combined with information
from other types of sensors and systems. We expect that the trend of intelligence
integration will continue and will have three important effects. First, modern ISR
systems must automatically derive intelligence from quickly detectable external signal
characteristics and combine this information at the raw observable level. To satisfy
this requirement, newer systems must be able to provide geolocational information on
all new energy detections. Second, intelligence must be delivered in an actionable
form to discreet personal devices in the hands of individual warfighters. Third, we
believe the pace of war and volume of intelligence data may result in the need to
execute decisions, including the use of lethal force, on the basis of machine-generated
information without the benefit of human analysis. These trends will continue to place
increasingly difficult demands on the systems accuracy, reliability, and data integrity
of ISR systems. 

Network-Centric Warfare.  The military is rapidly moving towards network-centric
warfare, which seeks to deliver the warfighter real-time, executable battlefield
information from multiple platforms and sources. Modern warfare requires coordinating
multiple ground troops, land vehicles and aircraft (both manned and unmanned), ships
and submarines. Network-centric warfare involves shared data, shared sensors, shared
tasking and joint operations among multiple combat platforms and personnel and requires
increasingly sophisticated, complementary and flexible C4ISR systems. 

Personnel Protection.  The conflict in Iraq has highlighted the need for personnel
protection against the improvised explosive device (IED). IEDs are explosive weapons
that are being built, deployed and activated in a variety of non-traditional ways and
are difficult to detect or counter. Systems that detect and protect against IEDs are a
critical need and require development of advanced sensor and jamming technologies. 

Outsourcing of Support Services.  A number of factors have converged to create an
environment in which government is now outsourcing an increasing percentage of work
previously done by the military or government civilians. The trend is pervasive across
nearly all functional areas except combat forces. The nature of the work ranges from
acquisition management to manning positions in intelligence and analytical operations.
A continuing manpower shortage in the military, increasingly complex systems and the
need to retrain system operators and maintainers on rapidly changing hardware and
software all point to even more outsourcing. The trend enables companies to provide
the government with critical services and expertise, while they remain current with
operational needs and challenges. 

Business Strategies 

Our business objective is to grow our business as a leading provider of state-of-the-art C4ISR
systems and services across a full range of defense and intelligence platforms. Our strategies for
achieving this objective include:

Continuing and extending Business with our Current Customers.  We adhere strongly to
the belief that  our current customer is our best customer.  Our intention is to extend
current contracts into additional capabilities and services for our existing customers.
Additionally, as new technology is
developed or available, we will endeavor to modify existing systems to take
advantage of this new technology in the face of dynamic threats. 

14 

Expanding our Customer Base for our Existing Capabilities.  The software product
line and other capabilities constituting our current products could offer additional
customers the same compelling advantages experienced by our current customers. We
intend to extend our customer set for our current and evolving products and services.
We believe the adaptability and flexibility of our SIGINT and other products make them
attractive in joint or coalition warfare environments. 

Developing New Products,  S ervices and Customers.  We believe a combination of our
highly-skilled staff and leading edge technology offers opportunities into new markets.
In addition, we believe that we have developed a favorable reputation for taking on
and solving the most challenging technical and engineering problems. We intend to
combine the results of customer funded research with internally funded technology
development to develop new customers through focused marketing initiatives led by our
internal professional staff, complemented by selective outside experts. 

Attracting and Developing Highly Skilled Personnel.  Our success depends on the continued
contributions of our engineers, system designers and managers. We intend to continue to
hire and develop the highly-skilled professionals needed for our work. We seek to
recruit exceptional recent college graduates and former key personnel from the
intelligence community and Department of Defense. We believe that our management s
success in creating and maintaining a challenging and stimulating work environment has
contributed to our low engineering staff turnover over the last twelve months. We
believe we can continue to attract, develop and retain employees by offering
competitive compensation, challenging engineering assignments and opportunities for
career and management growth. 

Leveraging Research and Development into Production Contracts.  Many of our current
systems were developed through our research and development activities. Much of our
research and development is funded through research and development contracts with the
U.S. government. While these contracts are generally small and have lower profit
margins, we have often been successful in expanding these activities into full
production contracts. We believe our involvement in all stages of a system s life cycle
provides us opportunities to be the preferred or sole-source provider for certain
systems. We intend to continue to identify and pursue programs where we can expand
research and development efforts into full production contracts. 

Migrating our Multi-Intelligence Capabilities to Additional Platforms.  Defense and
intelligence customers now require C4ISR systems that integrate multiple intelligence
gathering and processing capabilities. Our multi-intelligence systems have combined
communications and electronic intelligence capabilities on ships, submarines and
aircraft, and have combined radar and infra-red sensor capabilities for border patrols.
We believe our experience and capabilities position us to win contracts to develop and
produce multi-intelligence systems. 

Expanding our Role in Providing Support Services.  We plan to build on the expertise
developed from supporting and servicing our rapidly expanding inventory of deployed
systems, by providing those same services to similar systems. Our current
infrastructure can be adapted to meet the growing requirements created by the
government trend to outsource key engineering and support services. 

15 

ITEM 1A. BUSINESS RISKS 

Our future performance is subject to a variety of risks. If any of the following risks
actually occurs, our business could be harmed and the trading price of our common stock could
decline. In addition to the following risk factors, please refer to the other information
contained in this report, including the historical consolidated financial statements and related
notes.

Risks Related to Our Business and Operations 

We rely heavily on sales to the U.S. government, particularly to agencies of the Department of
Defense. 

Historically, a significant portion of our sales have been to the U.S. government and its
agencies. Sales to the U.S. government, either as a prime contractor or subcontractor, represented
approximately 90% and 89% of our revenues for fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and September
30, 2005, respectively. The Department of Defense, our principal U.S. government customer,
accounted for approximately 90% and 89% of our revenues for fiscal years ended September 30, 2006
and September 30, 2005, respectively. In addition, approximately 59% of our revenues for the fiscal
year ended September 30, 2006 and approximately 69% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended
September 30, 2005 were derived from agencies and commands of the U.S. Navy within the Department
of Defense. We expect that U.S. government sales, particularly Department of Defense sales, will
continue to constitute a significant majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. The
funding of U.S. government programs is dependent on Congressional appropriations and administrative
allotment of funds and is subject to uncertain future funding levels that can result in the
extension or termination of programs. Our business is also highly sensitive to changes in national
and international priorities and U.S. government budgets. The continuing war on terrorism may
positively or adversely affect funding for our programs or result in changes in U.S. government
programs or spending priorities. A shift in government defense or intelligence spending to other
programs in which we are not involved or a reduction in government defense or intelligence spending
generally could adversely affect our operating results.

U.S. government contracts are generally not fully funded at inception, and funding may be
terminated or reduced at any time. 

We act as a prime contractor or subcontractor for many different U.S. government programs.
Department of Defense and intelligence contracts typically involve long lead times for design and
development, and are subject to significant changes in contract scheduling. Congress generally
appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years.
Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially, and additional funds are
committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. The termination or reduction of funding
for a government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that
program.

Many of our government contracts span one or more base years with multiple option terms.
Government agencies generally have the right not to exercise these option terms. If an option term
on a contract is not exercised, we will not be able to recognize the full value of the contract
awarded. Our backlog as of September 30, 2006 was $225.2 million, of which $162.8 million was
funded. We exclude from backlog unexercised options on contracts. Our backlog includes orders under
awards that in some cases extend several years, with the latest expiring in 2010. The actual
receipt of revenues on awards included in backlog may never occur or may change because a program
schedule could change or the program could be canceled, or a contract could be reduced, modified,
or terminated early.

From time to time, we depend on revenues from a few significant contracts, and any loss or
cancellation of, or any reduction or delay in, any of these contracts could significantly harm our
business. 

From time to time, including recent periods, we have derived a significant portion of our
revenue from one or more individual contracts that could be terminated by the customer at the
customer s discretion. Our top three production programs accounted for approximately 25%, 39% and
60% of our revenue for fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In the
future, we may enter into one or more contracts that will constitute a significant portion of our
revenue during the period of contract performance. If any of our current significant contracts or
significant contracts we enter into in the future were terminated or our work under those

16 

contracts were decreased, our revenues and net income could significantly decline. Our success
will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with significant
customers. There is no assurance that we will be able to diversify our customer base and curtail
revenue concentration in the near future, if at all. The markets in which we sell our products are
dominated by a relatively small number of governmental agencies and allies of the U.S. government,
thereby limiting the number of potential customers. Our dependence on large orders from a
relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each customer critical to our
business. We cannot be sure that we will be able to retain our largest customers, that we will be
able to attract additional customers, or that our customers will continue to buy our systems and
services in the same volume as in prior years. In addition, many of our contracts with the U.S.
government contain provisions that allow the government to terminate or modify the terms of the
contract, including solely at the government s convenience. The loss of one or more of our largest
customers, any reduction or delay in sales to these customers, our inability to successfully
develop relationships with additional customers, or future price concessions that we may have to
make could significantly harm our business.

Our U.S. government contracts generally may be terminated at the government s convenience or for
our default. 

Generally, U.S. government contracts contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in
part, at the government s convenience or for contractor default. If a contract is terminated at the
convenience of the government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs
and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work completed. Contracts
which are terminated for default generally provide that the government only pays for the work it
has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of reprocurement and
may hold the contractor liable for damages. As a substantial majority of our revenues are dependent
on the procurement, performance and payment under our U.S. government contracts, the termination of
one or more critical government contracts could have a negative impact on our results of operations
and financial condition. Termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and
have a material adverse effect on our ability to re-compete for future contracts and orders.

As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations
with respect to negotiated contracts. 

We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation,
administration and performance of U.S. government contracts, including but not limited to the
Federal Acquisition Regulations. These laws and regulations, among other things:

require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with
contract negotiations; 

impose accounting rules that define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise
govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. government contracts;
and 

restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security
purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. 

These laws and regulations affect how we do business with our domestic as well as
international customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of
specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the
termination of our contracts, and suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. government
contracting or subcontracting for a period of time.

17 

Our U.S. government contracts contain provisions that may be unfavorable to us. 

Our U.S. government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that
give the government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including
rights and remedies that:

allow the government to unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending
resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; 

reduce the value of existing contracts; 

issue modifications to a contract; 

control and potentially prohibit the export of our products and services and
associated materials; and 

claim rights in products and systems produced by us. 

If any of these contract provisions are enforced by our customers, our financial condition and
operating results could be materially adversely affected.

Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. government. 

U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, routinely audit and
investigate government prime contractors and subcontractors. These agencies review a contractor s
performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations
and standards. The U.S. government also may review the adequacy of, and a contractor s compliance
with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor s purchasing, property,
estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly
allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must
be refunded. Audits for costs incurred on our work performed after fiscal year 2001 have not yet
been completed. If an audit conducted on our business uncovers improper or illegal activities, we
may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination
of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition
from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our
reputation if allegations of impropriety or illegal acts were made against us.

Our senior management is important to our customer relationships and overall business. 

We believe that our success depends in part on the continued contributions of our senior
management. We rely on our executive officers and senior management to generate business and
execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that members of our
management team have established and maintain with government defense and intelligence personnel
contribute to our ability to maintain good customer relations and to identify new business
opportunities. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers, and these
officers could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of any of our executive
officers or members of our senior management could impair our ability to identify and secure new
contracts and otherwise manage our business.

We must recruit and retain highly skilled employees to succeed in our competitive and
labor-intensive business. 

We believe that an integral part of our success is our ability to provide employees who have
advanced engineering, information technology and technical services skills and who work well with
our customers in a government and defense-related environment. These employees are in great demand
and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit
and retain a sufficient number of these employees, our ability to maintain our competitiveness and
grow our business could be negatively affected. In addition, some of our contracts contain
provisions requiring us to staff a program with certain personnel the customer considers key to our
successful performance under the contract. In the event we are unable to provide these key
personnel or acceptable substitutions, the customer may terminate the contract, and we may not be
able to recover our costs in the event the contract is terminated.

18 

Our business is dependent upon our employees obtaining and maintaining required security
clearances. 

Many of our U.S. government contracts require our employees to maintain various levels of
security clearances, and we are required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying
with Department of
Defense requirements. The Department of Defense and intelligence community have strict
security clearance requirements for personnel who work on classified programs. Obtaining and
maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to
identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are
unable to obtain security clearances in a timely manner, or at all, or if our employees who hold
security clearances are unable to maintain the clearances or terminate employment with us, the
customer whose work requires cleared employees could terminate the contract or decide not to renew
it upon its expiration. In addition, we expect that many of the contracts on which we will bid will
require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and perform work with
employees who hold specified types of security clearances. To the extent we are not able to obtain
facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a
particular contract, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively rebid on
expiring contracts.

Cost over-runs on our contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business. 

Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed amount irrespective of the actual costs we
incur and, consequently, we absorb any costs in excess of the fixed amount. Fixed-price contracts
represented approximately 65% and 79% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006
and September 30, 2005, respectively. Under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at
negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under cost reimbursable contracts, which
are subject to a contract ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee,
which may be fixed or performance-based. However, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are
not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to
obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control
costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and operating results
could be materially adversely affected. Cost over-runs also may adversely affect our ability to
sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. See    Government Contracts  
Government Contract Categories  above.

Our quarterly operating results may vary widely. 

Our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future. A
number of factors cause our revenues, cash flow and operating results to vary from quarter to
quarter, including:

fluctuations in revenues derived from fixed-price contracts and contracts with a
performance-based fee structure; 

commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; 

changes in Congress and Presidential administrations and senior U.S. government
officials that affect the timing of technology procurement; 

changes in policy or budgetary measures that adversely affect government contracts
in general; and 

increased purchase requests from customers for equipment and materials in connection
with the U.S. government s fiscal year end, which may affect our fiscal fourth quarter
operating results. 

Changes in the volume of services provided under existing contracts and the number of
contracts commenced, completed or terminated during any quarter may cause significant variations in
our cash flow from operations because a relatively large amount of our expenses are fixed. We incur
significant operating expenses during the start-up and early stages of large contracts and
typically do not receive corresponding payments in that same quarter. We may also incur significant
or unanticipated expenses when contracts expire or are terminated or are not renewed. In addition,
payments due to us from government agencies may be delayed due to billing cycles or as a result of
failures of governmental budgets to gain Congressional and Presidential administration approval in
a timely manner.

19 

Our earnings and profit margins may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs and other
factors related to our contracts. 

In general, we perform our developmental work under cost reimbursable and fixed-price
development contracts and our production work under fixed-price production contracts. See   
Government Contracts   Government Contract Categories  above. We typically experience lower profit
margins under cost reimbursable and fixed-price development contracts than under fixed-price
production contracts. In general, if the volume of services we perform under cost reimbursable and
fixed-price development contracts increases in proportion to the volume of services we perform
under fixed-price production contracts, our operating results may suffer. In addition, our earnings
and margins may vary materially depending on the costs we incur in contract performance, our
achievement of other contract performance objectives and the stage of our performance at which our
right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award-fee contracts, is finally determined.

We derive significant revenues from contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process. 

We derive significant revenues from U.S. government contracts that were awarded through a
competitive bidding process. Revenues from competitive-bid contracts constituted approximately 55%
and 46% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005,
respectively. Much of the business that we expect to seek in the foreseeable future likely will be
awarded through competitive bidding. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including:

the need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may
result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost over-runs; 

the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids
and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; 

the need to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be
required to service any contract we are awarded; and 

the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge
contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding, and the risk that any such
protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified
specifications, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. 

We may not be provided the opportunity to bid on contracts that are held by other companies
and are scheduled to expire if the government determines to extend the existing contract. If we are
unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through a competitive bidding process, we may
not be able to operate in the market for services that are provided under those contracts for a
number of years. If we are unable to consistently win new contract awards over any extended period,
our business and prospects will be adversely affected.

We face competition from other firms, many of which have substantially greater resources. 

We operate in highly competitive markets and generally encounter intense competition to win
contracts. We compete with many other firms, ranging from smaller specialized and medium-sized
firms such as Applied Signal Technologies, DRS Technologies, EDO Corporation and Southwest Research
Institute, to large diversified firms such as Boeing, BAE Systems, General Dynamics, Harris
Corporation, L-3 Communications, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman and Raytheon, many of which have
substantially greater financial, management and marketing resources than we have. Our competitors
may be able to provide customers with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can
provide in areas such as technical qualifications, past contract performance, geographic presence,
price and the availability of key professional personnel. In order to successfully secure contracts
when competing with larger, well-financed companies, we may be forced to agree to contractual terms
which provide for lower aggregate payments to us over the life of the contract, which could
adversely affect our margins. In addition, larger diversified competitors serving as prime
contractors may be able to supply underlying products and services from affiliated entities, which
would prevent us from competing for subcontracting opportunities on these contracts. Our failure to
compete effectively with respect to any of these or other factors
could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or
operating results. In addition, our competitors have established or may establish relationships
among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address customer needs.
Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge. See   
Competition  above.

20 

Our business depends upon our relationships with, and the performance of, our prime contractors. 

Revenues from contracts in which we acted as a subcontractor to other contractors represented
26% and 22% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005,
respectively. Of our $225.2 million total backlog as of September 30, 2006, approximately 14%
represented work to be performed by us as a subcontractor, and we expect to continue to depend on
relationships with other contractors for a substantial portion of our revenues in the foreseeable
future. Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be adversely
affected if other contractors eliminate or reduce their subcontracts or joint venture relationships
with us, either because they choose to establish relationships with our competitors or because they
choose to directly offer services that compete with our business, or if the government terminates
or reduces these other contractors  programs or does not award them new contracts.

In addition, on those contracts for which we are not the prime contractor, the U.S. government
could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of
our performance as a subcontractor. A prime contractor s performance deficiencies could adversely
affect our status as a subcontractor on the program, jeopardize our ability to collect award or
incentive fees, cause customers to delay payments, and result in contract termination.

If our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our contract
performance and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely affected. 

Many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform
a portion of the services we must provide to our customers. There is a risk that we may have
disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of the
work performed, customer concerns about a subcontractor s performance, our failure to extend
existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract or our hiring of a
subcontractor s personnel. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors to timely provide the
agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely affect our
ability to perform our obligations as the prime contractor. Subcontractor performance deficiencies
could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose
us to liability, damage our reputation, distract management s attention from the operation of our
business and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and
orders. In addition, a delay in our ability to obtain components and equipment parts from our
suppliers may affect our ability to meet our customers  needs and may have an adverse effect upon
our profitability.

Our employees or subcontractors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities. 

We are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. In addition,
from time to time, we enter into arrangements with subcontractors to bid on and execute particular
contracts or programs and we are exposed to the risk that fraud or other misconduct or improper
activities by subcontractor personnel may occur. Misconduct by our employees or subcontractors
could include intentional failures to comply with federal laws, federal government procurement
regulations or the terms of contracts that we receive. Misconduct by our employees or
subcontractors could also involve the improper collection, handling or use of our customers 
sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to
our reputation. As a result of employee or subcontractor misconduct, we could face fines and
penalties, loss of security clearance, suspension and/or debarment from performing U.S. government
contracts. It is not always possible to deter misconduct by employees or subcontractors. The
precautions we take to prevent and detect such activity may not be effective in controlling unknown
or unmanaged risks or losses and such misconduct by employees or subcontractors could result in
serious civil or criminal penalties or sanctions and greatly harm our reputation.

21 

If we are unable to manage our growth, our business could be adversely affected. 

During the five fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, our revenues increased at a compounded
annual growth rate of 44.3%. Sustaining our growth has placed significant demands on our
management, as well as our administrative, operational and financial resources. For us to continue
our growth, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and management information
systems and expand, motivate and manage our workforce. If we are unable to manage our growth while
maintaining our quality of service and profit margins, or if new systems that we implement to
assist in managing our growth do not produce the expected benefits, our business, prospects,
financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected.

Our international business poses potentially greater risks than our domestic business. 

International sales represented approximately 10% and 11% of our revenues for the fiscal years
ended September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively. Our international business tends to
have more risk than our domestic business due to the greater potential for changes in foreign
economic and political environments. Our international business is also highly sensitive to changes
in foreign national priorities and government budgets. International transactions frequently
involve increased financial and legal risks arising from stringent contractual terms and conditions
and the widely differing legal systems and customs in foreign countries.

We may not be able to receive or retain the necessary licenses or authorizations required to sell
our systems and provide services overseas. 

U.S. government licenses and approvals are required for us to export and sell almost all of
the products and services involved in our activities with foreign governments. With respect to
sales of defense-related products to foreign governments, the U.S. government s executive branch
must notify Congress at least 15 to 30 days, depending on the location of the sale, prior to
authorizing these sales. During this time, Congress may take action to block the proposed sale. We
cannot be sure of our ability to obtain any licenses required to export our systems or to receive
authorization from the executive branch for sales to foreign governments. Failure to receive
required licenses or authorization would hinder our ability to sell our systems outside of the
United States.

Our systems and products may be rendered obsolete if we are unable to adapt to the rapid
technological changes in our industry. 

The rapid development of technology in the defense and intelligence industry, as well as
rapidly changing demands for new or different technologies in reaction to government defense and
technology needs, continually affect system designs and product applications and may directly
impact the performance of our systems and products. We may not be able to successfully maintain or
improve the effectiveness of our existing systems, identify new opportunities, or continue to have
the necessary financial resources to design and develop new systems or products in a timely and
cost-effective manner. In addition, systems or products manufactured by others may render our
products and systems obsolete or non-competitive. If any of these events occur, our business,
prospects, financial condition and operating results will be materially and adversely affected.

We rely on a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers for specific components, and if our
supplies are interrupted, we may not be able to obtain substitute suppliers and manufacturers on
terms that are as favorable to us. 

Although we generally use standard parts and components for our systems, we rely on
non-affiliated suppliers for certain components that are incorporated in all of our systems. If
these suppliers or manufacturers experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity or
quality assurance difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships, we will
be required to quickly locate alternative sources of supply. Our inability to obtain sufficient
quantities of these components, if and as required in the future entails a number of risks,
including:

delays in delivery or shortages in components could interrupt and delay production
and result in cancellations of orders for our systems; 

alternative suppliers could increase component prices significantly; and 

we may not be able to develop alternative sources for the components. 

22 

Our system design and development activities rely on extensive use of advanced components for
hardware and software. 

Our system design and development activities rely on extensive use of purchased hardware
components and software. The hardware we generally use includes receivers, analog converters,
antennas, radio frequency distribution systems, servers and disk drives, as well as piece parts for
specified purpose design. If any of the hardware we use becomes obsolete prematurely or fails to
perform as expected, we would have to find replacement hardware, and that could result in added
expenses, schedule or delivery delays and customer dissatisfaction.

Software utilized by us consists generally of widely used commercial software products
and more specific use software licensed from other companies. Widely used commercial software is
generally upgraded frequently. If our customers do not agree to regular upgrades of the systems we
provide using this software, the systems may become obsolete and could result in customer
dissatisfaction and cancellation or non-renewal of orders. In the event that we lose access to the
more specific use software due to a dispute with the licensor or other reasons, we would have to
find a replacement for the software containing the necessary functionality, which could result in
unplanned expenses, system problems and customer dissatisfaction.

Our future success will depend in part on our ability to meet the changing needs of our
customers. 

Virtually all of the systems designed and sold by us are highly engineered and require
sophisticated design, software implementation and system integration techniques and capabilities.
The system and program needs of our government customers regularly change and evolve. There is no
assurance that we will at all times have at our disposal the engineering, technical and
manufacturing capabilities necessary to meet these evolving needs.

We may be liable for system and service failures. 

We design, implement and maintain communications and information technology systems that are
often critical to our customers  operations, including the operations of government defense and
intelligence agencies and their personnel. We have experienced and may in the future experience
some system and service failures, schedule or delivery delays and other problems in connection with
our work. If our systems, services, products or other applications have significant defects or
errors, are subject to delivery delays or fail to meet customers  expectations, we may:

lose revenues due to adverse customer reaction; 

be required to provide additional services to a customer at no charge; 

receive negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect
our ability to attract or retain customers; or 

suffer claims for substantial damages. 

In addition to any costs resulting from product warranties, contract performance or required
corrective action, these failures may result in increased costs or loss of revenues if they result
in customers postponing subsequently scheduled work or canceling or failing to renew contracts.

While many of our contracts limit our liability for damages that may arise from negligence in
rendering services to customers, we cannot be sure that these contractual provisions will protect
us from liability for damages if we are sued. Furthermore, our errors and omissions and product
liability insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient
amounts to cover one or more large claims, or the insurer may disclaim coverage as to some types of
future claims. Successful assertion of any large claim against us could seriously harm our
business. Even if not successful, these claims could result in significant legal and other costs,
may be a distraction to our management and may harm our reputation in the industry. In certain new
business areas,
including in the area of homeland security, we may not be able to obtain sufficient
indemnification or insurance and may decide not to accept or solicit business in these areas.

23 

Security breaches by us could adversely affect our business. 

Many of the programs we support and systems we develop, install and maintain involve managing
and protecting information involved in intelligence, national security and other classified
government functions. A security breach by us or our employees in the course of our development,
production or service activities could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation
and prevent us from being eligible for further work on critical classified systems for U.S.
government customers. Losses that we could incur from such a security breach could exceed the
policy limits under our errors and omissions or product liability insurance.

Developing new technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by
indemnity or insurance. 

We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the systems and services we provide. A
significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced
communications and technology systems and products used in military defense and intelligence
systems and products. New technologies are often untested or unproven. In addition, from time to
time, we have employees deployed on-site at active military installations or locations. Although
indemnification by the U.S. government may be available in some instances for our defense
activities, U.S. government indemnification may not be available to cover potential claims or
liabilities resulting from a failure of technologies developed by us and deployed in our systems.

Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of U.S. government indemnity and our
insurance coverage could harm our financial condition and operating results. Moreover, any accident
or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our reputation,
thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the
cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future.

Our failure to protect our proprietary technology may adversely affect our business and impair our
ability to compete effectively. 

Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology
developed by our highly skilled employees who are experienced in designing and developing complex
communications and information technology systems. We rely primarily on trade secrets and
confidentiality procedures to protect our proprietary technology. These measures can only provide
limited protection. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our
systems or products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. If we fail to protect
our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors may gain access to our technology,
potentially resulting in a loss of competitive advantage and decreased revenues. Legal standards
relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights
are uncertain and the laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual
property rights as those in the U.S. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent
third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or otherwise
gaining access to our technology, which could harm our competitive position and our results of
operations.

The U.S. government s right to use technology developed by us limits our intellectual property
rights. 

We do not have the right to prohibit the U.S. government from using certain technologies
developed by us or to prohibit third parties, including our competitors, from using those
technologies to provide products and services at the request of the U.S. government. The U.S.
government has the right to royalty-free use of technologies that we have developed under U.S.
government contracts. We are free to commercially exploit those government funded technologies and
may assert our intellectual property rights to seek to block other non-government users thereof,
but we cannot assure you that we could successfully do so.

24 

We may be affected by intellectual property infringement claims. 

Our business operations rely extensively on procuring and deploying intellectual property. Our
employees develop some of the software solutions and other forms of intellectual property that we
use to provide information products and solutions to our customers, but we also license a
significant amount of the technology used in our business from primary vendors. We may in the
future be subject to claims from our employees or third parties who assert that software solutions
and other forms of intellectual property that we use in delivering services and solutions to our
customers infringe upon the intellectual property rights of such employees or third parties. If our
vendors, employees or third parties assert claims that we or our customers are infringing on their
intellectual property, we could incur substantial costs to defend these claims and management s
attention could be diverted from the operation of our business. In addition, if any of these
infringement claims are ultimately successful, we could be required to:

cease selling or using products or services that incorporate the challenged software
or technology; 

obtain a license or additional licenses involving additional costs for use; or 

redesign systems and products that rely on the challenged software or technology. 

Risks Related to Accounting Matters and Our Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

If we fail to comply with requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting under
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business could be harmed and our stock price could
decline. 

Rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require us to assess our internal control over financial reporting
annually, and require our independent registered public accounting firm to issue an attestation
report on our management s assessment thereof. The rules governing the standards that must be met
for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective are complex,
and require significant documentation, testing, and possible remediation of any significant
deficiencies and/or material weaknesses of our internal controls to meet the detailed standards
under these rules. We have evaluated our internal control over financial reporting as effective as
of September 30, 2006, and our independent registered public accountants have audited our
assessment and issued their attestation report thereon in conformity with our evaluation. See Item
9A   Controls and Procedures   Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
Although we have evaluated our internal controls as effective as of September 30, 2006, we may
encounter unanticipated delays or problems in assessing our internal controls as effective or in
completing our assessment by the required date in future fiscal years. In addition, we cannot
assure you that our independent registered public accountants will attest our internal controls as
effective in future fiscal years. If we cannot assess our internal controls as effective, and/or if
our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation
report on such assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence and
share value may be negatively impacted.

We have incurred substantial operating costs in connection with the completion of our
implementation and assessment and the auditor attestation under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act with respect to each of our fiscal years 2006 and 2005, and we expect to incur substantial
operating expenses in meeting the requirements relating to internal control over financial
reporting in the future. In addition, no assurance can be made that the operating expenses with
respect to internal controls compliance we actually incur in the future will not exceed
management s expectations.

We may incur material goodwill impairment charges related to mergers and acquisitions. 

We have recognized goodwill of $148,719,000 in connection with mergers and acquisitions as of
September 30, 2006. In accordance with accounting rules, the goodwill is reviewed annually unless
circumstances or events indicate that an impairment test should be performed sooner to determine if
there has been any impairment to its value. The review for impairment is based on several factors
requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flow or change in
market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded
goodwill. We performed the test during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 and found no
impairment to the carrying value of goodwill.

25 

We may be required to reduce our profit margins on contracts on which we use the
percentage-of-completion accounting method. 

We record sales and profits on many of our contracts using the percentage-of-completion method
of accounting. As a result, revisions made to our estimates of sales and profits are recorded in
the period in which the conditions that require such revisions become known and can be estimated.
Although we believe that our profit margins are fairly stated and that adequate provisions for
losses for our fixed-price contracts are recorded in our financial statements, as required under
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we cannot assure you that our contract profit
margins will not decrease or our loss provisions will not increase materially in the future.

Risks Related to Acquisitions 

We intend to pursue selective acquisitions, which may prove difficult in the current acquisition
environment for defense and intelligence businesses. 

One of our key growth strategies is to pursue selective acquisitions. Since October 1, 2005,
we have acquired Radix Technologies, Inc., San Diego Research Center, Inc. (SDRC) and Innovative
Research, Ideas and Services Corporation (IRIS) as well as certain assets of ProDesign Solutions
LLC and we intend to pursue additional strategic acquisitions in the future. See   Recent
Developments  above and Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.
Current valuations for businesses in the government, defense and intelligence sectors in which we
operate are at historically high levels, and there is intense competition from government
contractors of all types and sizes, commercial information technology providers, special purpose
acquisition companies and private equity firms for acquisition candidates operating in these
sectors. In addition, we intend to seek to acquire businesses with specialized technology
capabilities and products that complement or expand our existing capabilities and products,
businesses that expand our relationships with existing customers and businesses that offer us
opportunities to diversify or expand our customer base. These types of businesses are especially in
demand in the current acquisition market, and other prospective purchasers who have substantially
greater resources than we do may offer to acquire such businesses upon such economic terms that are
hard for us to match. We may not be able to identify and execute suitable acquisitions in the
future on terms that are favorable to us, or at all.

Acquisitions involve costs and other risks, and may not have the benefits we expect. 

In connection with acquisitions we make, we may incur significant acquisition expenses as well
as amortization expenses related to intangible assets. We also may incur significant write-offs for
impairment of goodwill associated with companies, businesses or technologies that we acquire. Our
operating results could be adversely affected by these expenses and write-offs. Moreover, any
acquisition could involve other risks, including:

diversion of management s attention from existing operations; 

potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies; 

exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and 

financial reporting irregularities as a result of deficient internal controls and
disclosure controls and procedures of acquired companies. 

26 

In addition, the success of our acquisition strategy will depend upon our ability to
successfully integrate any businesses we may acquire in the future. The integration of these
businesses into our operations may result in unforeseen events or operating difficulties, absorb
significant management attention and require significant financial resources that would otherwise
be available for the ongoing development of our business. These integration difficulties could
include:

the integration of personnel with disparate business backgrounds; 

the transition to new information systems; 

the coordination of geographically dispersed organizations; 

the reconciliation of different corporate cultures; and 

the synchronization of disclosure and financial reporting controls of acquired
companies with our controls and, where applicable, improvement of the acquired
company s controls. 

Since we have surpassed the 750 employee size standard eligibility for new awards under the
Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR) program, any  small business  company we acquire will
likely lose its eligibility to bid on new SBIR contracts once it is acquired by us. For these or
other reasons, we may be unable to retain key customers of acquired companies or to retain or renew
contracts of acquired companies. Moreover, any acquired business may fail to generate the revenue
or net income we expected or produce the efficiencies or cost-savings that we anticipated. Any of
these outcomes could materially adversely affect our operating results.

Acquisitions may require us to incur debt or issue dilutive equity. 

Our acquisition strategy may require us to incur debt or sell equity, resulting in additional
leverage or dilution of ownership. Any debt we would incur to finance acquisitions would likely
involve restrictions on our operations and require us to maintain certain financial ratios and
secure the debt with our assets, such as accounts receivable.

Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock 

Our management, whose interests may not be aligned with yours, is able to control the vote on all
matters requiring stockholder approval. 

As of December 4, 2006 our executive officers (Terry L. Collins, Victor F. Sellier, Thomas E.
Murdock, S. Kent Rockwell, Kerry M. Rowe, W. Joseph Carlin and Robert S. Tamaru) collectively held
approximately 41% of our total outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, our executive
officers as a group will continue to control the vote on all matters requiring
stockholder approval, including the election of directors. The interests of our executive officers
may not be fully aligned with yours. Although there is no agreement among our executive officers
with respect to the voting of their shares, this concentration of ownership may delay, defer or
even prevent a change in control of our company, and make transactions more difficult or impossible
without the support of all or some of our executive officers. These transactions might include
proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give you the
opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common
stock.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 

We conduct a major portion of our operations at our headquarters located at 12701 Fair Lakes
Circle, Fairfax, VA 22033. This is a 10 story building in a mixed use office park that includes
commercial, residential, and retail properties. Our leased space encompasses 164,000 square feet of
the 253,000 square feet available in the building. This space includes appropriately constructed
office, laboratory and meeting areas suitable for our classified and unclassified government work.
The base lease for 100,000 square feet extends until March 2009 and has two 5-year options. The
lease for the remaining 64,000 square feet extends until May 31, 2009.

27 

We believe that our leased facilities are suitable for the operations we have in each of them.
Each facility is well maintained and capable of supporting higher levels of revenue. In addition,
provisions in our headquarters
lease give us opportunities for additional space should our growth require facilities
expansion. The table below sets forth certain information about our principal facilities.

28 

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

We are not party to any material legal proceedings. We are subject to litigation from time to
time, in the ordinary course of business including, but not limited to, allegations of wrongful
termination or discrimination.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of our
fiscal year ended September 30, 2006.

SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

The following is a list of our executive officers, including their names, ages and offices
held, as of December 4, 2006.

Name  
       
      Age  
       
      Position with Registrant  

Terry L. Collins,
Ph.D.

61 

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and
President 

S. Kent Rockwell

62 

Vice Chairman of the Board and Vice President,
Corporate Development 

Victor F. Sellier

57 

Vice President, Business Operations, Chief
Financial Officer and Treasurer 

Thomas E. Murdock

64 

Vice President, Strategic Program Development 

Kerry M. Rowe

47 

Vice President, Chief Operating Officer 

W. Joseph Carlin

43 

Vice President, Information Dominance 

Robert S. Tamaru

51 

Vice President, Technology and Strategic Development 

29 

PART II 

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES
OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol  STST. 

The following table sets forth the range of high and low actual sales prices of our common
stock for the periods indicated.

There were 527 record holders of our common stock on December 4, 2006. On December 4, 2006,
the last reported sale price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was $22.75 per
share.

Dividend Policy 

During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004, prior to the merger of Argon Engineering and
Sensytech, Argon Engineering paid dividends to its shareholders of $7,851,000. Prior to the merger
of Argon Engineering and Sensytech, Sensytech never paid cash dividends on its common stock.
Subsequent to the merger, we have not paid cash dividends on our common stock.

For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain earnings to reinvest for future operations and
growth of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock.
However our board of directors, in its discretion, may decide to declare a dividend at an
appropriate time in the future. A decision to pay a dividend would depend, among other factors,
upon our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements and the terms of our
credit facility and other financing agreements at the time such a payment is considered.

Equity Compensation Plan Information 

Set forth below is information as of September 30, 2006 regarding our equity compensation
plans.

(1) 
       
     Consists entirely of shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of options
under the Argon Engineering Associates, Inc. Stock Plan. There will be no further
options or common stock granted under this plan. 

30 

The Argon Engineering Associates, Inc. Stock Plan (the  Plan ) provided for the for the
issuance of incentive and non-statutory stock options and restricted stock to eligible employees of
Argon Engineering and its affiliates. As a result of the merger of Argon Engineering and
Sensytech, each outstanding option to purchase Argon Engineering common stock under the Plan was
converted into an option to purchase our common stock, with the number of shares able to be
purchased and the exercise price adjusted in accordance with the merger exchange ratio. No
acceleration of vesting of options under the Plan occurred in connection with the merger. As a
result of the merger, the Plan covers 6,240,000 shares of common stock; however, the Plan has been
frozen as of September 29, 2004 and no additional awards will be granted under the Plan subsequent
to that date. The only participants in the Plan are those employees who received awards prior to
September 29, 2004.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

The following table sets forth the selected statement of earnings data and balance sheet data
for each of the periods indicated. The selected financial data for the years ended September 30,
2006, 2005, 2004, 2003, and 2002 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and
related notes.

The selected financial data presented below should be read in conjunction with our
consolidated financial statements and the notes to our consolidated financial statements and
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  included
elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

On September 29, 2004, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sensytech merged with and into Argon
Engineering. While Sensytech was the legal acquirer, the acquisition was accounted for as a
reverse acquisition, whereby Argon Engineering was deemed to have acquired Sensytech for financial
reporting purposes. Consistent with the reverse acquisition accounting treatment, the historical
financial statements presented for periods prior to the acquisition date are the statements of
Argon Engineering except for stockholders  equity which has been retroactively restated for the
equivalent number of shares of the legal acquirer. The operations of the former Sensytech
businesses have been included in the financial statements from the date of acquisition. Please
refer to Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements included in this report.

The selected financial data for September 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002 reflect the results from
operations of Argon Engineering. Balance sheet and backlog data include Sensytech as of September
30, 2004, while results from operations include Sensystech from September 29, 2004, the date of the
merger.

31 

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS 

The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and
uncertainties. Actual results could differ substantially from those anticipated in these
forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those set forth in  Business
Risks  under Item 1A of this report.

32 

Forward-looking Statements 

Statements in this annual report on Form 10-K, including without limitation in this
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which are
not historical facts are forward-looking statements under the provision of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1955. All
forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. These statements are based upon
numerous assumptions about future conditions that could prove not to be accurate. Actual events,
transactions or results may materially differ from the anticipated events, transactions or results
described in such statements. Our ability to consummate such transactions and achieve such events
or results is subject to certain risks and uncertainties including those set forth in  Business
Risks  under Item 1A of this Report. In addition to those risks specifically mentioned in this
report, such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the existence of demand for,
and acceptance of our products and services, regulatory approvals, export approvals, economic
conditions both domestically and internationally, the impact of competition and pricing, results of
financing efforts and other factors affecting our business that are beyond our control. All of the
forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. You should not put
undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update these
forward-looking statements to reflect new information, future events or otherwise, except as
provided by law.

Overview 

General  

We are a leading systems engineering, development and services company providing full-service
C4ISR (command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance)
systems and services to a wide range of defense and intelligence customers. Our systems provide
communications intelligence, electromagnetic intelligence, electronic warfare and information
operations capabilities that enable our defense and intelligence customers to detect, evaluate and
respond to potential threats. These systems are deployed on a range of military and strategic
platforms including surface ships, submarines, unmanned underwater vehicles (UUV), aircraft,
unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), land mobile vehicles, fixed site installations and re-locatable
land sites.

Basis of Discussion/Acquisition  

On September 29, 2004, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sensytech merged with and into Argon
Engineering in an acquisition whereby each outstanding share of Argon Engineering common stock was
converted into two shares of Sensytech common stock. As a result of the merger, the former Argon
Engineering stockholders acquired approximately 65.6% of the issued and outstanding shares of
Sensytech common stock. As part of the overall transaction, Sensytech changed its name to Argon
ST, Inc. While Sensytech was the legal acquirer, the acquisition was accounted for as a reverse
acquisition, whereby Argon Engineering was deemed to have acquired Sensytech for financial
reporting purposes.

Management s discussion and analysis addresses our historical results of operations and
financial condition as shown in our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended
September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Consistent with the reverse acquisition accounting treatment
applied to the merger, our historical financial statements presented in this Form 10-K for periods
prior to the acquisition date are the statements of Argon Engineering (except for stockholders 
equity which has been retroactively restated for the equivalent number of shares of Argon ST, as
the legal acquirer). The operations of the former Sensytech businesses have been included in the
financial statements from September 29, 2004, the date of acquisition. Both companies had their
fiscal year ending on September 30.

Segments  

We have reviewed our business operations and determined that we operate in a single
homogeneous business segment. Our financial information is reviewed and evaluated by the chief
operating decision maker on a consolidated basis relating to the single business segment. We sell
similar products and services that exhibit similar economic characteristics to similar classes of
customers, primarily the U.S. government. Revenue is internally reviewed monthly by management on
an individual contract basis as a single business segment.

33 

Revenues  

Our revenues are primarily generated from the design, development, production, installation
and support of complex sensor systems under contracts predominately with the U.S. government and
major domestic prime contractors, as well as with foreign governments, agencies and defense
contractors.

Our government contracts can be divided into three major types: cost reimbursable, fixed-price
and time and materials. Cost reimbursable contracts are primarily used for system design and
development activities involving considerable risks to the contractor, including risks related to
cost estimates on complex systems, performance risks associated with real time signal processing,
embedded software, high performance hardware, and requirements that are not fully understood by the
customer or us, the development of technology that has never been used, and interfaces with other
systems that are in development or are obsolete without adequate documentation. Fees under these
contracts are usually fixed at the time of negotiation; however, in some cases the fee is an
incentive or award fee based on cost, schedule, and performance or a combination of those factors.
Although the U.S. government customer assumes the cost risk on these contracts, the contractor is
not allowed to exceed the cost ceiling on the contract without the approval of the customer.

Fixed-price contracts are typically used for the production of systems. Development activities
similar to activities performed under previous contacts are also usually covered by fixed-price
contracts, due to the low risk involved. In these contracts, cost risks are borne entirely by the
contractor. Some fixed-price contracts include an award fee or an incentive fee as well as the
negotiated profit. Most foreign customers, and some U.S. customers, use fixed-price contracts for
design and development work even when the work is considered high risk. Time and materials
contracts are based on hours worked, multiplied by approved labor rates, plus other costs incurred
and allocated.

The following table represents our revenue concentration by contract type for the periods
indicated:

Generally, we experience revenue growth when systems move from the development stage to the
production stage due to increases in sales volumes from production of multiple systems and when we
add new customers or are successful in selling new systems to existing customers. Our current
production work has been derived from programs for which we have performed the initial development
work. These programs are next generation systems replacing existing, obsolete systems that were
developed by other companies. We were able to displace these companies primarily on the basis of
technological capability. We believe that the current state of world affairs and the U.S.
government s emphasis on protecting U.S. citizens will cause funding of these programs to continue.

The change in our contract mix in fiscal year 2006 resulted from the addition of Radix
Technologies and San Diego Research Center, Inc. both of which have a predominance of cost type
programs, combined with the effects of the contributed revenue from the new SSEE Inc. F program (a
cost reimbursable contract). The year over year decline in production of submarine systems, which
are primarily fixed price contracts, has also contributed to the change in revenue concentration by
contract type.

Backlog  

We define backlog as the funded and unfunded amount provided in contracts less previously
recognized revenue and exclude all unexercised options on contracts. Some contracts where work has
been authorized carry a funding ceiling that does not allow us to continue work on the contract
once the customer obligations have reached
the funding ceiling. In such cases, we are required to stop work until additional funding is
added to the contract. Our experience in this case is rare and therefore we generally carry the
entire amount that the customer intends to execute as backlog when we are confident that the
customer has access to the required funding for the contract.

34 

In general, most of our backlog results in sales in subsequent fiscal years, as we maintain
minimal inventory and therefore the lead time on ordering and receiving material and increasing
staff to execute programs has a lag time of several months from the receipt of order.

Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often
appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though
the contract may call for performance that is expected to take a number of years.

From time to time, we will exclude from backlog portions of contract values of very long or
complex contracts where we judge revenue could be jeopardized by a change in U.S. government
policy. Because of possible future changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders,
backlog at any particular date is not necessarily representative of actual sales to be expected for
any succeeding period, and actual sales for the year may not meet or exceed the backlog
represented. We may experience significant contract cancellations that were previously booked and
included in backlog.

Our backlog consisted of the following at September 30:

Of the total unfunded backlog at September 30, 2005, $60,556,000 pertained to the Aerial
Common Sensor (ACS) program, on which we were a subcontractor. On January 12, 2006, we received a
termination order from Lockheed Martin, our prime contractor, and the unfunded backlog was removed.
We continue to carry $278,000 of funded backlog as we negotiate termination costs with our prime
contractor.

Adjusted for the removal of ACS backlog, we experienced a modest, 6.9% increase in backlog in
fiscal 2006 over fiscal 2005. This relatively flat level of backlog was the result of the delay in
award of a number of programs, including the SSTD 25-A, from 2006 into 2007.

Our total, funded and unfunded backlog as of the end of any fiscal quarter or year may
fluctuate due to numerous factors, including the schedule for and timing of contract awards we are
pursuing, the timing of government contracts we have been awarded and our success in winning new
and follow-on contract awards.

Cost of Revenues  

Cost of revenues consist of direct costs incurred on contracts such as labor, materials,
travel, subcontracts and other direct costs and indirect costs associated with overhead expenses
such as facilities, fringe benefits and other costs that are not directly related to the execution
of a specific contract. We plan indirect costs on an annual basis and on cost reimbursable
contracts receive government approval to bill those costs as a percentage of our direct labor,
other direct costs and direct materials as we execute our contracts. The U.S. government approves
the planned indirect rates as provisional billing rates near the beginning of each fiscal year.

General and Administrative Expenses  

Our general and administrative expenses include administrative salaries, costs related to
proposal activities, internally funded research and development, and other administrative costs.

35 

Interest Income, net  

Net interest income is derived solely from interest earned on cash reserves maintained in
short-term investment accounts and are therefore subject to short-term interest rates that have
minimal risk.

Research and Development  

We conduct internally funded research and development into complex signal processing, system
and software architectures, and other technologies that are important to continued advancement of
our systems and are of interest to our current and prospective customers. The variance from year to
year in internal research and development is caused by the status of our product cycles and the
level of complementary U.S. government funded research and development.

The table below shows our research and development expenditures for the periods indicated. As
shown in this table, internal research and development is a small portion of our overall research
and development, as government funded research and development constitutes the majority of our
activities in this area.

In fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, internal research and development expenditures
represented 2.4%, 1.5% and 1.0% of our revenues, respectively.

Critical Accounting Practices and Estimates 

General  

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based
upon our financial statements. These financial statements are prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. We believe that
the estimates, assumptions, and judgments involved in the accounting practices described below have
the greatest potential impact on our financial statements and, therefore, consider these to be
critical accounting practices.

Revenue and Cost Recognition  

General 

The majority of our contracts, which are with the U.S. government, are accounted for in
accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 81-1,
 Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts.  These contracts are
transacted using written contractual arrangements, most of which require us to design, develop,
manufacture and/or modify complex products and systems, and perform related services according to
specifications provided by the customer. We account for fixed-price contracts by using the
percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Under this method, contract costs are charged to
operations as incurred. A portion of the contract revenue, based on estimated profits and the
degree of completion of the contract as measured by a comparison of the actual and estimated costs,
is recognized as revenue each period. In the case of contracts with materials requirements, revenue
is recognized as those materials are applied to the production process in satisfaction of the
contracts  end objectives. We account for cost reimbursable contracts by charging contract costs to
operations as incurred and recognizing contract revenues and profits by applying the negotiated fee
rate to actual costs on an individual contract basis. Management reviews contract
performance, costs incurred, and estimated completion costs regularly and adjusts revenues and
profits on contracts in the period in which changes become determinable.

36 

Anticipated losses on contracts are also recorded in the period in which they become
determinable. Unexpected increases in the cost to develop or manufacture a product, whether due to
inaccurate estimates in the bidding process, unanticipated increases in material costs,
inefficiencies, or other factors are borne by us on fixed-price contracts, and could have a
material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition. Unexpected cost increases
in cost reimbursable contracts may be borne by us for purposes of maintaining customer
relationships. If the customer agrees to fund cost increases on cost type contracts, the additional
work does not have any profit and therefore dilutes margin.

Indirect Rate Variance 

We apply overhead and general and administrative expenses as a percentage of direct contract
costs based on annual budgeted indirect expense rates. To the extent actual expenses for an
interim period are greater than the budgeted rates, the variance is deferred if management believes
it is probable that the variance will be absorbed by future contract activity. This probability
assessment includes projecting whether future indirect costs will be sufficiently less than the
annual budgeted rates or can be absorbed by seeking increased billing rates applied on
cost-plus-fee contracts. At the end of each interim reporting period, management assesses the
recoverability of any amount deferred to determine if any portion should be charged to expense. In
assessing the recoverability of variances deferred, management takes into consideration estimates
of the amount of direct labor and other direct costs to be incurred in future interim periods, the
feasibility of modifications for provisional billing rates, and the likelihood that an approved
increase in provisional billing rates can be passed along to a customer. Variances are charged to
expense in the periods in which it is determined that such amounts are not probable of recovery.
At the end of the fiscal year, indirect rates are applied using actual costs incurred, and variances at the end of fiscal year 2006 were deemed to be immaterial.

Award Fee Recognition 

Our practice for recognizing interim fee on our cost-plus-award-fee contracts is based on
management s assessment as to the likelihood that the award fee or an incremental portion of the
award fee will be earned on a contract-by-contract basis. Management s assessments are based on
numerous factors including: contract terms, nature of the work performed, our relationship and
history with the customer, our history with similar types of projects, and our current and
anticipated performance on the specific contract. No award fee is recognized until management
determines that it is probable that an award fee or portion thereof will be earned. Actual fees
awarded are typically within management s estimates. However, changes could arise within an award
fee period causing management to either lower or raise the award fee estimate in the period in
which it occurs.

Goodwill  

Costs in excess of the fair value of tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and
liabilities assumed in a business combination are recorded as goodwill. In accordance with SFAS
No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , we test for impairment at least annually using a
two-step approach. Impairment of goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level by comparing the
reporting unit s carrying amount, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit. The
fair values of the reporting units are estimated using a combination of the income, or discounted
cash flows approach and the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies  data. If the
carrying amount of the unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered impaired and a second
step is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. We performed the test during
the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 and found no impairment to the carrying value of goodwill.

Accounts Receivable  

We are required to estimate the collectibility of our accounts receivables. Judgment is
required in assessing the realization of such receivables, and the related reserve requirements are
based on the best facts available to us. Since most of our revenue is generated under U.S.
government contracts, our current accounts receivable reserve is not significant to our overall
receivables balance.

37 

Stock-Based Compensation  

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment,  ( SFAS No. 123R ) which
requires that compensation costs related to share-based payment transactions be recognized in
financial statements. SFAS No. 123R requires all companies to measure compensation costs for all
share-based payments at fair value, and eliminates the option of using the intrinsic method of
accounting provided for in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees,  ( APB No. 25 ) which generally resulted in no compensation expense recorded in the
financial statements related to the grant of stock options to employees and directors if certain
conditions were met.

Effective October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective
method. Under this method, compensation costs for all awards granted after the date of adoption
and the unvested portion of previously granted awards outstanding at the date of adoption will be
measured at estimated fair value and included in operating expenses over the vesting period during
which an employee provides service in exchange for the award. Accordingly, prior period amounts
presented herein have not been restated to reflect the adoption of SFAS No. 123R.

Historical Operating Results 

Fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 compared to fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 

The following table sets forth certain items, including consolidated revenues, cost of
revenues, general and administrative expenses, income tax expense and net income, and the changes
in these items for the fiscal years indicated:

Contract Revenues: 

Revenue decreased approximately $12,919,000 or 5% during fiscal year 2006. The decrease was
the result of several factors. The termination of the ACS contract caused a $11,559,000 revenue
decrease in fiscal year 2006. In addition, revenue declined as a result of the completion or
substantial completion of a number of submarine and surface ship systems, offset partially by
revenue growth from our acquisitions of Radix, SDRC and IRIS as well as a major new surface ship
contract and other contract awards during the year.

Cost of Revenues: 

Cost of revenues decreased approximately 8% for fiscal year 2006 as compared to fiscal year
2005. The decrease was comprised primarily of a decrease in material costs of approximately
$37,646,000 due to our completion or substantial completion of a number of significant production
programs. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in direct labor, subcontracts and other
direct costs of approximately $7,491,000 as we increased staff size to satisfy requirements of our
new development contracts, and the integration of labor from our acquired companies. Compensated
leave and other fringe benefits increased approximately $7,468,000 due to increased employee population. Engineering overhead
increased approximately $2,874,000 of which $1,874,000 was an increase in business development cost, when compared to fiscal year 2005. Stock compensation expense of
approximately $907,000 was recorded in fiscal year 2006 under SFAS No. 123R; however, no stock
compensation was recognized
for 2005. The increase in fringe benefits and facilities costs are related to an increase in
employee population, while the increase in business development costs is consistent with our
emphasis on penetrating new markets. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenue decreased to 80%
for fiscal year 2006 from 82% for fiscal year 2005, largely due to a shift in labor from direct and overhead functions to research and
development expense, which is included in general and administrative expenses.

38 

General and Administrative Expenses: 

General and administrative expenses increased approximately 52% for fiscal year 2006, as
compared to the fiscal year 2005. The increase was due primarily to an increase in salaries
expense of approximately $1,682,000 as a result of increased staff, increased research and
development expense of approximately $2,994,000, and an increase in professional fees expenses of
approximately $336,000. Stock compensation expense of approximately $1,014,000 was recorded in
fiscal year 2006 under SFAS No. 123R; however, no stock-based compensation was recognized for 2005.
Fringe benefits and facilities expenses allocated to general and administrative expenses increased
by $1,219,000 and $420,000 respectively, as a result of our increased employee population and
facilities added in connection with our fiscal year 2006 acquisitions.

Interest Income and Interest Expense: 

Interest income increased approximately $635,000 for fiscal year 2006, as compared to the
fiscal 2005. This increase was a result of significantly higher average cash balances due to
proceeds from our secondary stock offering in December 2005, improved accounts receivable
collections, and higher short-term interest rates during fiscal year 2006 compared to the fiscal
year 2005. Interest expense increased by $153,000 for fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal year 2005 due
to borrowings on the line of credit during the first quarter of 2006.

Provision for Income Taxes: 

Our provision for income taxes for fiscal year 2006 was $12,385,000 as compared to
approximately $13,301,000 for the fiscal year 2005. The effective tax rate for fiscal year 2006 was
39.0% compared to 37.9% for fiscal year 2005. The research and development tax credit expired on
December 31, 2005 and therefore did not reduce the effective tax rate in fiscal year 2006, compared
to a 1.0% reduction in fiscal year 2005 attributable to the credit.

Net Income: 

Net income decreased $2,386,000, or approximately 11%, for fiscal year 2006 compared to the
fiscal year 2005. This decrease in net income reflects the shift in fixed price contract work from
79% of revenues during fiscal year 2005 to 65% of revenues during fiscal year 2006. Our
profitability was further impacted by stock compensation expense, net of tax of $1,505,000 for
fiscal year 2006. During fiscal year 2005, no stock-based compensation was recognized. In
addition, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, we lowered the profit expectations on one
of our larger fixed price programs as a result of unanticipated technical difficulties causing a
delay in program completion. This change in program estimated profit at completion resulted in a
pretax profit reduction of $2,147,000 in fiscal year 2006.

Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2005 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2004 

The following table sets forth certain items, including consolidated revenues, cost of
revenues, general and administrative expenses, income tax expense and net income, and the changes
in these items for the periods indicated:

39 

Revenues:  

Revenues increased approximately 110% for the fiscal year 2005 compared to the fiscal year
2004. This increase is primarily attributable to increased contract award activities which grew by
31%, work performed on contracts awarded prior to fiscal year 2005 and revenues generated from the
addition of Sensytech s backlog, as well as new business acquired during fiscal year 2005. During
fiscal year 2005, revenue from our three large production contracts increased by $77,540,000. In
fiscal year 2005, we continued to see a transition from cost reimbursable contracts to fixed-price
contracts. Fixed-price contracts represented 79% of our revenue in fiscal year 2005, compared to
71% in fiscal year 2004.

Backlog at the end of fiscal year 2005 increased $41,734,000, or approximately 18%, compared
with 2004 fiscal year-end backlog. The increase in backlog in 2005 was primarily the result of
continuing orders and receipt of a large order for the Aerial Common Sensor (ACS) program. 2005
fiscal year-end backlog includes $60,973,000 with respect to our work on the ACS program. See   
Overview Backlog,  above.

New orders increased $73,597,000, or approximately 31%, in fiscal year 2005 compared to fiscal
year 2004. This increase is a result of full rate production orders for ship systems. Bookings in
fiscal year 2005 include $71,797,000 related to the ACS program. See    Overview Backlog,  above.

Cost of Revenues:  

Cost of revenues increased approximately 108% for the fiscal year 2005 as compared to the
fiscal year 2004. This increase was primarily comprised of an increase in direct labor of
$11,554,000 and an increase in materials of $80,867,000 to support the increase in fiscal year 2005
production activities for system delivery. In addition, we had increases of $8,321,000 and
$5,298,000 for fringe benefits, and facilities costs, respectively, allocated to cost of revenues.
The increase in fringe benefits is primarily a result of increases in compensated leave of
$2,685,000, group insurance of $2,130,000, employment taxes of $1,590,000, 401(k) contributions of
$1,172,000 and incentive compensation of $594,000 much of which is associated with the increase in
employee head count. Primarily all of the incentive compensation was accrued during the fourth
quarter, based on our performance during the quarter and performance for the year. The facilities
cost increase is primarily attributable to increases in rent of $1,870,000 and depreciation of
$1,682,000 associated with additional properties and equipment acquired in the merger with
Sensytech. During fiscal year 2005, other engineering overhead costs increased by $7,286,000,
while amortization of intangibles and the depreciation of asset write-up relating to the initial
amortization and depreciation, increased costs by $971,000 and $346,000, respectively. The
engineering overhead increase is primarily the result of an increase in labor of $6,865,000. Cost
of revenues as a percentage of revenues was 82% and 83% for the fiscal years ended September 30,
2005 and 2004, respectively.

General and Administrative Expenses:  

General and administrative expenses increased approximately 147% for fiscal year 2005 as
compared to fiscal year 2004. The increase was due primarily to an increase in general and
administrative labor of $1,633,000, an increase in internal research and development of $2,691,000
and an increase in bid and proposal cost of $359,000. The increase in costs related to
Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance and accounting system conversion was
$1,466,000. In addition, fringe benefits and facilities costs allocated to general and
administrative expenses increased by $1,064,000 and $631,000, respectively.

40 

Interest Income and Interest Expense:  

Interest income increased $544,000 to $711,000 for fiscal year 2005 from $167,000 for fiscal
year 2004. This increase was a result of a larger average cash balance, which allowed for
investment in higher yield short-term investments resulting in higher average interest rates during
fiscal year 2005 compared to fiscal year 2004. Interest expense was not significant in fiscal
years 2005 and 2004.

Income Tax Expense:  

Our provision for income taxes increased $7,124,000 or 115% to $13,301,000 for fiscal year
2005 from $6,177,000 for fiscal year 2004. The fiscal year 2005 effective tax rate was 37.9%
compared to 38.3% in 2004. For fiscal year 2005, the research and development tax credit reduced
the effective rate by 1% compared to a 1.9% reduction in fiscal year 2004. For fiscal year 2005,
other items, such as permanent tax differences and an over accrual of prior year taxes had a 0.1%
effect on the effective tax rate. For fiscal year 2004, permanent differences and an under accrual
of prior year taxes increased the effective tax rate by 1.3%

Net Income:  

As a result of the above, net income increased $11,832,000 or 119% to $21,781,000 for fiscal
year 2005 from $9,949,000 for fiscal year 2004.

Analysis of Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Cash  

At September 30, 2006, we had cash of $33,498,000 compared to cash of $4,064,000 at September
30, 2005, an increase of $29,434,000. Our largest source of cash during fiscal year 2006 was
$46,768,000 from the secondary offering. Cash provided by operating activities was $38,044,000 of
which $19,685,000 resulted from a decrease in billed and unbilled accounts receivable. The primary
use of cash during fiscal year 2006 was the acquisition of four companies totaling $56,670,000, net of cash acquired.

Many of our fixed-price contracts contain provisions under which our customers are required to
make payments when we achieve certain milestones. In many instances, these milestone payments
occur before we have incurred the associated costs to which the payments will be applied. For
example, under certain of our production contracts, our order of materials constitutes a milestone
for which we receive a significant payment, but we do not pay the materials vendors until the
materials are received and placed into production. We recognize deferred revenue when we receive
milestone payments for which we have not yet incurred the applicable costs. As costs are incurred
and revenue recognition criteria are met, we recognize revenue.

The time lag between our receipt of a milestone payment and our incurrence of associated costs
under the contract can be several months, therefore, milestone payments under fixed-price contracts
can significantly affect our cash position at any given time. The receipt of milestone payments
will temporarily increase our cash on hand and our deferred revenue. As costs are incurred under
the contract and contract revenue is recognized, cash and deferred revenue associated with the
payment will decrease. During fiscal year 2006, milestone payments related to a major production
program resulted in an increase in deferred revenue of $5,914,000 over the fiscal year 2005 level.
We received significant milestone payments during fiscal year 2004 in connection with placement of
materials orders on three separate fixed-price production contracts. Over the years, these
milestone payments have had a significant effect on our comparative cash balances. We expect that
fluctuations in deferred revenue will occur based on the particular timing of milestone payments
under our fixed-price contracts and our subsequent incurrence of costs under the contracts. Due to
these fluctuations, our cash position at the end of any fiscal quarter or year may not be
indicative of our cash position at the end of subsequent fiscal quarters or years.

41 

Line of Credit  

The Company s $15,000,000 line of credit with Bank of America, N.A. (the  Lender ) expired on
February 28, 2006, and was replaced by a revolving credit agreement, also with the Lender. The new
credit facility will terminate no later than February 28, 2008. The terms and conditions are
substantially similar to the credit facility it replaced, except that the maximum availability was
increased to $40,000,000 and the facility contains a sublimit of $15,000,000 to cover letters of
credit. In addition, borrowings on the line of credit will bear reduced interest at the LIBOR rate
plus 150 basis points. An unused commitment fee of 0.25% per annum, payable in arrears, is also
required.

All borrowings under the line of credit are collateralized by all tangible assets of the
Company. The line of credit agreement includes customary restrictions regarding additional
indebtedness, business operations, permitted acquisitions, liens, guarantees, transfers and sales
of assets, and maintaining its primary accounts with the Lender. Borrowing availability under the
line of credit is equal to the Company s EBITDA ( net income plus income taxes, interest, depreciation and amortization ). For fiscal year ending September 30, 2006, EBITA
was $37,571,000. The agreement requires the Company to comply with a specific EBITDA to Funded
Debt ratio, and contains customary events of default, including the failure to make timely payments
and the failure to satisfy covenants, which would permit the Lender to accelerate repayment of
borrowings under the agreement if not cured within the applicable grace period. As of September
30, 2006, the Company was in compliance with these covenants and the financial ratio.

At September 30, 2006, there were no borrowings outstanding against the line of credit.
Letters of credit outstanding at September 30, 2006 amounted to $1,394,000 and $36,177,000 was
available on the line of credit.

Cash Flows  

For fiscal year 2006 cash of 38,044,000 was provided by operating activities compared to
$26,546,000 used in operating activities during fiscal year 2005. Billed and unbilled receivables
provided $19,685,000 of cash in fiscal year 2006 compared to using cash of $42,853,000 in fiscal
year 2005. We saw a similar improvement in deferred revenue, however increases in inventory,
deferred project costs and the decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses used $17,152,000
of cash during the year.

Net cash used in investing activities was $49,798,000 which was comprised primarily of cash
used to acquire four businesses during fiscal year 2006. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements in this report. Cash used in business acquisitions, net of cash placed in escrow on
September 30, 2005 was $45,770,000. The remainder of the cash was used to acquire property, plant
and equipment during the year. We expect that our investment in property and equipment will
continue as we upgrade and replace older equipment and as our employee base increases.

Net cash provided by financing activities was $41,188,000 for fiscal year 2006. Proceeds from
our secondary offering, net of expenses, was $46,768,000 and was used to payoff the line of credit
of $11,000,000 and to fund the acquisitions completed this year. In addition, we received proceeds
from option exercises and employee stock purchases of $2,572,000 and $897,000, respectively.

We believe that the combination of internally generated funds, cash and cash equivalent on
hand and available bank credit will provide the required liquidity and capital resources necessary
to fund ongoing operations, customary capital expenditures and other working capital needs over the
next 12 months.

42 

Contractual Obligations and Commitments 

As of September 30, 2006, our contractual cash obligations were as follows:

As of September 30, 2006, our other commercial commitments were as follows:

We have no long-term debt obligations, other operating lease obligations, contractual purchase
obligations, or other long-term liabilities other than those shown above. We also have no other
off-balance sheet arrangements of any kind.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued FASB Statement No.
157,  Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for
measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. It also establishes a
fair value hierarchy that prioritizes information used in developing assumptions when pricing an
asset or liability. SFAS 157 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2008. We are evaluating
the statement to determine the effect, if any, on our future financial statements and related
disclosures.

In September 2006, the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin
No. 108,  Financial Statements   Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when
Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements  ( SAB 108 ). SAB 108 requires
companies to quantify the impact of all misstatements, including both the carryover and reversing
effects of prior year misstatements, on the current year financial statements. This pronouncement
is effective for us on October 1, 2006. We do not believe SAB 108 will have a material effect on
our financial statements and related disclosures.

In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes  ( FIN 48 ). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an
enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes. 
FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48
also provides guidance on measurement, derecognition, classification, interest and penalties,
accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. FIN 48 will be effective for us beginning
October 1, 2007. We are evaluating the interpretation to determine the effect on our financial
statements and related disclosures.

Market Risks 

In addition to the risks inherent in its operations, we are exposed to financial, market,
political and economic risks. The following discussion provides additional detail regarding our
exposure to credit, interest rates and foreign exchange rates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents:  

All unrestricted, highly liquid investments purchased with a remaining maturity of three
months or less are considered to be cash equivalents. We maintain cash and cash equivalents with
various financial institutions in
excess of the amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. We believe that any
credit risk related to these cash and cash equivalents is minimal.

43 

Interest Rates:  

Our line of credit financing provides available borrowing to us at a variable interest rate
tied to the bank s prime interest rate or the LIBOR rate. At September 30, 2006, we had no
borrowing under the line of credit. Upward movement in interest rates would result in our incurring
higher interest expenses to the extent amounts are outstanding under our line of credit.

Foreign Currency:  

We have contracts to provide services to certain foreign countries approved by the U.S.
government. Our foreign sales contracts require payment in U.S. dollars, and therefore are not
affected by foreign currency fluctuations. We occasionally issue orders or subcontracts to foreign
companies in local currency. At September 30, 2005, we had a contract that locked in the exchange
rate to purchase  3,660,000 for $6,634,000 to remit to a UK subcontractor. See Note 16 to the
consolidated financial statements for additional information on this transaction.

Recent Developments:  

On November 15, 2006, the Company announced that it has been awarded a multi-year contract for
the continued development and production of the AN/SLQ-25A Torpedo Countermeasures System for the
U.S. Navy. The contract was awarded by the U.S. Naval Sea Systems Command (NAVSEA 415) for the
continued development and support of the AN/SLQ-25A system which is widely deployed on Navy surface
ships. Work under the contract will primarily be accomplished at the Company s Smithfield,
Pennsylvania facility with support from the corporate headquarters in Fairfax, Virginia. The
contract calls for a base year with four additional option years. The first increment of tasking
on the base year has a value of $17,650,000. It is anticipated that additional tasks and funding
will be added to this contract during both the base and four option years.

This contract initially had been planned for commencement in the third quarter of fiscal year
2006, but operational delays by the government in sea testing and contract negotiations
unexpectedly pushed the award into fiscal year 2007. Production plans for the AN/SLQ-25A system
are scheduled to begin in fiscal year 2008.

During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, the Company incurred costs totalling
approximately $4,436,000 related to this contract. The contract costs were accounted for as
deferred project costs as of September 30, 2006, please see Note 1   Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies   Deferred Project Costs in the consolidated financial statements included in
this report.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS 

The information called for by this item is provided under Item 7    Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Market Risks  above.

44 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

45 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Board of Directors and Shareholders 
Argon ST, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Argon ST, Inc. and
subsidiaries (the Company), as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended September 30, 2006. We have also audited management s assessment, included in the
accompanying management s report on internal control over financial reporting, that the Company
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on
criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for these
financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for
its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements, an opinion on management s
assessment, and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audit of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used, and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment,
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention
or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that
could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or
that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

As described in Management s Report on  Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting, management excluded from their assessment the internal control over financial reporting at
Radix Technologies, Inc. ( Radix ), which was acquired on October 1, 2005 and San Diego Research Center, Incorporated ( SDRC ),
which was acquired on July 3, 2006, which are included in the 2006 consolidated financial statements of Argon ST, Inc.
The total combined revenues of Radix and SDRC represented less than 7% of the Company s
consolidated total revenues for the year ended September 30, 2006 and the total net income of Radix and SDRC
represented less than 1% of the Company s consolidated total combined net income for the year ended September 30, 2006.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of Argon ST, Inc. also did not include an evaluation of the internal control
over financial reporting of Radix and SDRC.

46 

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Argon ST, Inc. as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
September 30, 2006, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. Also in our opinion, management s assessment that the Company maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, is fairly stated, in
all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework
issued by COSO. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria
established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by COSO . 

/s/ Grant Thornton LLP

McLean, Virginia 
December 7, 2006

47 

ARGON ST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

48 

ARGON ST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

49 

ARGON ST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

50 

ARGON ST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

51 

Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Nature of Business  

Argon ST (the  Company ), headquartered in Fairfax, Virginia, provides full service C4ISR
(command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance)
systems. The systems are sold primarily for the ultimate use of either the U.S. government or
certain U.S. government-approved foreign governments. The systems are used on a broad range of
military and strategic platforms including surface ships, submarines, unmanned underwater vehicles,
aircraft, unmanned aerial vehicles, land mobile vehicles, fixed site installations and relocatable
land sites.

Principles of Consolidation  

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Argon ST, Inc. and its wholly
owned subsidiaries, Radix Technologies, Inc., San Diego Research Center, Inc. and Daedalus
Enterprises Export Corporation (inactive). All intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated in consolidation.

Basis of Presentation  

As further described in Note 2, on September 29, 2004, Argon Engineering Associates, Inc.
( Argon Engineering ) merged with a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sensytech, Inc. ( Sensytech ). As a
result of this merger, each outstanding share of Argon Engineering stock was converted into two
shares of Sensytech common stock. Immediately following the merger, the combined company was
renamed Argon ST, Inc.

While Sensytech was the legal acquirer, the merger was accounted for as a reverse acquisition,
whereby Argon Engineering was deemed to have acquired Sensytech for financial reporting purposes.
This determination was based on factors including relative stock ownership and voting rights, board
control, and senior management composition. Consistent with the reverse acquisition accounting
treatment, the historical financial statements presented for periods prior to the acquisition date
are the financial statements of Argon Engineering. Earnings per share have been adjusted to
reflect the two for one exchange ratio. The operations of the former Sensytech businesses have
been included in the financial statements from the date of acquisition.

The names Argon ST, Sensytech, and Argon Engineering are used throughout these footnotes.
Argon ST, also the Company, refers to the entity created by the merger of Argon Engineering and
Sensytech. Argon Engineering refers to Argon Engineering Associates, Inc. which operated as a
stand alone private company until the September 29, 2004 merger with Sensytech. Sensytech refers
to Sensytech Inc., which, combined with its wholly owned subsidiaries, made up the publicly held
entity Sensytech until the September 29, 2004 merger with Argon Engineering.

Revenue and Cost Recognition  

Contract revenue is accounted for in accordance with the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants Statement of Position 81-1,  Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and
Production-Type Contracts . These contracts are transacted using written contractual arrangements,
most of which require Argon ST to design, develop, manufacture and/or modify complex products, and
perform related services according to specifications provided by the customer. Argon ST accounts
for fixed-price contracts by using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Under this
method, contract costs are charged to operations as incurred. A portion of the contract revenue,
based on estimated profits and the degree of completion of the contract as measured by a comparison
of the actual and estimated costs, is recognized as revenue each period. Unexpected increases in
the cost
to develop or manufacture a product under a fixed-price contract, whether due to inaccurate
estimates in the bidding

52 

process, unanticipated increases in material costs, inefficiencies, or
other factors are borne by Argon ST, and could have a material adverse effect on Argon ST s results
of operations. Argon ST accounts for cost reimbursable contracts by charging contract costs to
operations as incurred and recognizing contract revenues and profits by applying contractually
agreed to fee rates to actual costs on an individual contract basis. Revenue under time and
material contracts is based on hours incurred multiplied by approved loaded labor rates plus other
direct costs incurred and allocated.

The following table represents Argon ST s revenue concentration by contract type:

Management reviews contract performance, costs incurred, and estimated completion costs
regularly, and adjusts revenues and profits on contracts in the period in which changes become
determinable. Anticipated losses on contracts are also recorded in the period in which they become
determinable.

Argon ST s policy for recognizing interim fee on cost plus award fee contracts is based on
management s assessment as to the likelihood that the award fee or an incremental portion of the
award fee will be earned on a contract-by-contract basis. Management s assessments are based on
numerous factors including: contract terms, nature of the work to be performed, the relationship
and history with the customer, the history with similar types of projects, and the current and
anticipated performance on the specific contract. No award fee is recognized until management
determines that it is probable that an award fee or portion thereof will be earned.

Revenues recognized in excess of billings are recorded as unbilled accounts receivable. Cash
collections in excess of revenues recognized are recorded as deferred revenues until the revenue
recognition criteria are met. Reimbursements, including those related to travel, other out of
pocket expenses and any third party costs, are included in revenues, and an equivalent amount of
reimbursable expenses are included in cost of revenues.

Indirect Rate Variance  

We apply overhead and general and administrative expenses as a percentage of direct contract
costs based on annual budgeted indirect expense rates. To the extent actual expenses for an
interim period are greater than the budgeted rates, the variance is deferred if management believes
it is probable that the variance will be absorbed by future contract activity. This probability
assessment includes projecting whether future indirect costs will be sufficiently less than the
annual budgeted rates or can be absorbed by seeking increased billing rates applied on
cost-plus-fee contracts. At the end of each interim reporting period, management assesses the
recoverability of any amount deferred to determine if any portion should be charged to expense. In
assessing the recoverability of variances deferred, management takes into consideration estimates
of the amount of direct labor and other direct costs to be incurred in future interim periods, the
feasibility of modifications for provisional billing rates, and the likelihood that an approved
increase in provisional billing rates can be passed along to a customer. Variances are charged to
expense in the periods in which it is determined that such amounts are not probable of recovery.
At the end of the fiscal year, indirect rates are applied using actual costs incurred and variances at the end of fiscal
year 2006 were deemed to be immaterial.

Reclassification  

Reclassification is made to the prior years financial statements when appropriate, to conform
to the current year presentation.

Cash and Cash Equivalents  

Cash and cash equivalents include cash and investments that are readily convertible into cash
and have original maturities of three months or less.

53 

Accounts Receivable  

Argon ST reviews its receivables regularly to determine if there are any potential
uncollectible accounts. The majority of Argon ST s receivables are from agencies of the U.S.
Government, where there is minimal credit risk. We record allowances for bad debt as a reduction to
accounts receivable and an increase to bad debt expense. These allowances are recorded in the
period a specific collection problem is identified. During fiscal year ended 2006, we charged
$80,000 to bad debt expense. There was no charge to bad debt expense during fiscal years 2005 and
2004.

Inventories  

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, determined on the first-in, first-out
basis. Inventories consist of the following at September 30:

Deferred Project Costs  

During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, the Company incurred cost of approximately
$4,436,000 related to the multi-year contract for the continued development and production of the
AN/SLQ-25A Torpedo Countermeasures System for the U.S. Navy that was ultimately awarded in November
2006. This contract initially had been planned for commencement in the third quarter of fiscal year
2006 but operational delays by the government in sea testing and contract negotiations unexpectedly
delayed the award until fiscal year 2007. The contract costs consisting
of material costs and associated burdens is accounted for as deferred project cost as of September
30, 2006.

Deferred Project Costs also includes approximately $1,161,000 of cost related to materials to
which the Company has title but which were not received as of September 30, 2006.

Long-Lived Assets (Excluding Goodwill)  

The Company follows the provisions of SFAS No. 144 in accounting for long-lived assets such as
property and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortization. SFAS No.144 requires that
long-lived assets be reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized if the
sum of the long-term undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the long-lived
asset being evaluated. Any write-downs are treated as permanent reductions in the carrying amount
of the assets.

Goodwill  

Costs in excess of the fair value of tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and
liabilities assumed in a business combination are recorded as goodwill. In accordance with SFAS
No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , the Company tests for impairment at least annually
using a two-step approach. Impairment of goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level by
comparing the reporting unit s carrying amount, including goodwill, to the fair value of the
reporting unit. The fair values of the reporting units are estimated using a combination of the
income, or discounted cash flows approach and the market approach, which utilizes comparable
companies  data. If the carrying amount of the unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered
impaired and a second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. We
performed the test during the fourth quarter of fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively, and found
no impairment to the carrying value of goodwill.

54 

Intangibles  

Intangible assets consist of the value of customer related intangibles and developed
technology acquired in various acquisitions. Intangible assets are amortized on a straight line
basis over their estimated useful lives.

The Company s intangible assets as of September 30, 2006 were as follows:

Property, Equipment and Software  

Property, equipment and software are stated at cost. Depreciation is provided over the
estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from three to five years, using the straight-line
method. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the life of the asset or the
respective lease terms, which range from 1 to 15 years, using the straight-line method.

Stock-Based Compensation  

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment,  ( SFAS No. 123R ) which
requires that compensation costs related to share-based payment transactions be recognized in
financial statements. SFAS No. 123R requires all companies to measure compensation costs for all
share-based payments at fair value, and eliminates the option of using the intrinsic method of
accounting provided for in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees,  ( APB No. 25 ) which generally resulted in no compensation expense recorded in the
financial statements related to the grant of stock options to employees and directors if certain
conditions were met.

Effective October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective
method. Under this method, compensation costs for all awards granted after the date of adoption
and the unvested portion of previously granted awards outstanding at the date of adoption will be
measured at estimated fair value and included in operating expenses over the vesting period during
which an employee provides service in exchange for the award. Accordingly, prior period amounts
presented herein have not been restated to reflect the adoption of SFAS No. 123R.

Under the modified prospective method, results for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2005
and 2004 were not restated to include stock option expense. The previously disclosed pro forma
effects of recognizing the estimated fair value of stock-based employee compensation, which
historically was calculated using the Black-Scholes pricing model, for the years ended September
30, 2005 and 2004 are presented below. The fiscal year 2005 and 2004 pro forma stock-based
compensation disclosed below has been increased by $224,000 and $26,000, respectively, to correct
the initial vesting period used for certain options awarded during the year ended September 30,
2004.

55 

Income Taxes  

Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been established for the temporary differences
between financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities existing at the balance sheet
date using expected tax rates. A valuation allowance is recorded, when necessary, to reduce
deferred income taxes to that portion that is expected to more likely than not be realized.

Comprehensive Income  

Argon ST reports comprehensive income in accordance with SFAS No. 130,  Reporting
Comprehensive Income, which establishes rules for the reporting and display of comprehensive income
and its components.

Use of Estimates  

Management uses estimates and assumptions in preparing these financial statements in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These
estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported revenues and expenses. Actual results could
vary from the estimates that were used.

Operating Cycle  

In accordance with industry practice, Argon ST classifies as current assets amounts relating
to long-term contracts which may have terms extending beyond one year but are expected to be
realized during the normal operating cycle of the Company. The liabilities in the accompanying
balance sheets which have been classified as current liabilities are those expected to be satisfied
by the use of assets classified as current assets, all within the next twelve months.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued FASB Statement No.
157,  Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for
measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. It also establishes a
fair value hierarchy that prioritizes information used in developing assumptions when pricing an
asset or liability. SFAS 157 will be effective
for the Company beginning October 1, 2008. The Company is evaluating the statement to determine the
effect, if any, on future financial statements and related disclosures.

56 

In September 2006, the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin
No. 108,  Financial Statements   Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when
Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements  ( SAB 108 ). SAB 108 requires
companies to quantify the impact of all misstatements, including both the carryover and reversing
effects of prior year misstatements, on the current year financial statements. This pronouncement
is effective for the Company on October 1, 2006. The Company does not believe SAB 108 will have a
material effect on its financial statements and related disclosures.

In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes  ( FIN 48 ). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an
enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes. 
FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48
also provides guidance on measurement, derecognition, classification, interest and penalties,
accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. FIN 48 will be effective for the Company
beginning October 1, 2007. The Company is evaluating the interpretation to determine the effect on
its financial statements and related disclosures.

Earnings Per Share:  

Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding during each period. Diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing
the net income by the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding
during each period. The following summary of basic and diluted shares is presented for the years
ended September 30:

Stock options that could potentially dilute basic EPS in the future that were not included in
the computation of diluted EPS, because to do so would have been antidilutive, were 498,150 for the
year ended September 30, 2006.

Note 2   Acquisitions and Mergers 

Year Ended September 30, 2006 

San Diego Research Center, Inc.  

On July 3, 2006, the Company acquired 100% of the voting equity of San Diego Research Center,
Inc. ( SDRC ) through the merger of a wholly-owned subsidiary of Argon ST with and into SDRC. SDRC
is based in San Diego, California and serves the defense wireless communications sector by
inventing, implementing and integrating complete systems suited for military environments.

57 

The Company paid $41,000,000 in cash at closing for the SDRC stock. In addition $4,000,000
will be paid out in the form of retention payments to certain employees payable over the four years
following the acquisition closing and will be charged to expense over that period. Direct expenses
of $689,000 consisting of legal, accounting, investment banking, and other fees were incurred in
connection with this acquisition and are included in the purchase price. Management believes that
SDRC s combination of workforce skills, cultural fit and technology will allow Argon ST to expand
into new markets and to support SDRC s expected rapid future growth as systems under development
move into production. The results of SDRC s operations are included in the consolidated financial
statements beginning as of July 3, 2006.

Of the purchase price $10,667,000 was allocated to customer related intangibles to be
amortized over 8.25 years and $539,000 was allocated to a technology intangible to be amortized
over three years. In addition, $30,596,000 was allocated to goodwill of which none is deductible
for tax purposes. Pursuant to the requirements of SFAS No. 141, this acquisition is deemed to be
material and pro forma disclosure along with the other acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2006
is presented below.

The Company has recognized the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed for the
SDRC acquisition completed in fiscal year 2006 as follows:

Other Acquisitions  

Radix Technologies, Inc.  

Effective October 1, 2005, the Company acquired 100% of the voting equity of Radix
Technologies, Inc. ( Radix ) through the merger of a wholly-owned subsidiary of Argon ST with and
into Radix. Radix is based in Mountain View, California, and designs and produces signal
processing systems and equipment for military, intelligence and commercial applications. The
Company paid $10,900,000 in cash at closing for the Radix stock, and the transaction provides for
additional consideration in a maximum aggregate amount of $1,500,000 to be paid upon the
achievement of certain performance targets during the 15 month period following the closing.
Contingent payments are recorded as additional purchase price when the contingency is determinable
beyond a reasonable doubt. As of September 30, 2006, Radix achieved its target for revenue and a
payment of $750,000 is scheduled for December 2006. In addition to the purchase price, direct
expenses of $143,000 consisting of legal, accounting and other fees were incurred in connection
with the acquisition and are included in the purchase price. Management believes that Radix s
complementary capabilities and its customer relationships will create significant new business
opportunities for the Company. Radix operates as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The
results of Radix s operations are included in the consolidated financial statements beginning as of
October 1, 2005.

Of the purchase price, $1,039,000 was allocated to intangibles related to customer
relationships and will be amortized over three years. In addition, $7,114,000 which includes the
$750,000 contingent payment to be made in December was allocated to goodwill, none of which is
deductible for tax purposes.

58 

ProDesign Solutions, LLC  

On February 13, 2006, the Company acquired certain assets of ProDesign Solutions, LLC
( ProDesign ). ProDesign, based in Sarasota, Florida, provides a wide array of industrial design
services including ruggedized
electronic enclosures, electro-mechanical engineering, software/firmware engineering, and rapid
prototyping, with extensive experience in working with composite materials for weight savings. The
Company paid $1,750,000 in cash and assumed liabilities of $55,000 related to a note payable and a
capital lease. Of the purchase price, $434,000 was allocated to intangibles related to technology
and processes that will be amortized over three years. In addition, $831,000 was allocated to
goodwill, all of which is deductible for tax purposes over a 15 year amortization period. The
results of ProDesign s operations are included in the consolidated financial statements as of
February 13, 2006.

Innovative Research, Ideas, and Services Corporation  

On July 31, 2006, the Company acquired 100% of the voting equity of Innovative Research,
Ideas, and Services Corporation ( IRIS ). IRIS is based in Ann Arbor, MI and specializes in sensor
systems analysis, design, software development, sensor data fusion and developing ISR standards.
Subsequent to the acquisition, IRIS was merged into Argon ST.

The Company paid $2,800,000 in cash for the IRIS stock and the acquisition agreement provides
for maximum contingent consideration of $1,500,000 to be paid upon achievement of certain
performance targets through September 29, 2007. In addition to the purchase price, the Company
paid direct expenses of $64,000 in connection with the acquisition. Management believes that
IRIS s capabilities complement the Company s existing sensor products and opens up new customer
bases. The results of IRIS s operations are included in the consolidated financial statements
beginning as of July 31, 2006.

Of the purchase price, $840,000 was allocated to customer-related and technology intangibles,
while $2,222,000 was allocated to goodwill, none of which is deductible for tax purposes. Pursuant
to the requirements of SFAS No. 141, management has deemed that this acquisition is not material to
the financial statements, however, pro forma disclosure is presented for all the 2006 acquisitions
in total.

The Company has recognized the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed for the
three above acquisitions as follows:

Pro Forma Information (Unaudited) 

The following unaudited pro forma combined condensed statement of earnings sets forth the
consolidated revenue, net income and diluted earnings per share of the Company for the years ended
September 30, 2006 and 2005. The information has been compiled as if each of the above
acquisitions occurring in fiscal year 2006 had been completed at the beginning of the fiscal year
ended September 30, 2005. The pro forma net income includes a nonrecurring charge of $4,168,000,
net of tax, related to stock compensation recorded immediately prior to the acquisition. This
unaudited pro forma information does not purport to be indicative of the actual results that would
have occurred if these acquisitions had actually been completed on the dates described above.

59 

Note 3   Goodwill and Intangible Assets 

Goodwill  

Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill during the years ended September 30, 2006 and
September 30, 2005 is summarized in the following table:

Intangibles  

Intangible assets consist of the value of customer related intangibles and developed
technology acquired in various acquisitions. Intangible assets are amortized on a straight line
basis over their estimated useful lives. Argon ST amortized $1,592,000, $971,000 and $0 of
intangible assets in fiscal year 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Amortizable intangible assets were comprised of the following:

60 

Future expected amortization expense of intangible assets is as follows:

Note 4   Customer Concentrations of Credit and Other Business Risks 

Customer Concentrations  

The following table identifies the source of Argon ST s revenues by major market:

Revenues for the U.S. military can also be categorized as direct purchases and subcontracts,
where Argon ST is a supplier to another contractor. The following table distinguishes Argon ST s
revenue between these two categories:

Cash Balances  

The Company maintains cash balances at commercial banks in excess of Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC) limit of $100,000. Management believes the risk in these situations to be
minimal. Argon ST had cash and cash equivalents held by commercial banks and financial institutions
totaling $33,498,000 as of September 30, 2006.

61 

Note 5   Accounts Receivable 

Accounts receivable consists of the following as of:

Unbilled costs, fees, and retainages result from recognition of contract revenue in advance of
contractual or progress billing terms.

The cost reimbursable and time and material contract payments to Argon ST under government
contracts are provisional payments that are subject to adjustment upon audit by the U.S. Defense
Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) or other appropriate agencies of the U.S. Government. Historically,
such audits have not resulted in any significant disallowed costs. When final determination and
approval of the allowable rates have been made, receivables may be adjusted accordingly. Incurred
cost audits for Argon Engineering have been completed by DCAA through September 30, 2001. Incurred
cost audits for Sensytech have been completed by DCAA through September 30, 2003. Management does
not anticipate any material adjustment to the consolidated financial statements in subsequent
periods for audits not yet completed.

Reserves are determined based on management s best estimate of potentially uncollectible
accounts receivable. Argon ST writes off accounts receivable when such amounts are determined to
be uncollectible.

Note 6   Property, Equipment and Software 

Property, equipment and software consist of the following as of:

Depreciation and amortization expense of property, equipment and software totaled $4,030,000,
$3,522,000 and $1,317,000 for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Depreciation expense of $22,000 and $19,000 for certain office equipment leased under capital lease
agreements is included in depreciation expense for fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively. The
net book value of assets under capital leases was $107,000 and $81,000 as of September 30, 2006 and
September 30, 2005 respectively. During fiscal year 2006, certain leasehold improvements were
completed and the $152,000 of related cost as of September 30, 2005 was reclassified to leasehold
improvements and will be amortized over the lesser of the life of the asset or the terms of the
lease. For the year ending September 30, 2006, the Company recorded a $165,000 loss on disposal
related to purchased software, leasehold improvements and other property that were no longer in
use. The $165,000 loss on disposal is reported in the Cost of Revenues caption of the Statement of
Earnings.

62 

Note 7   Revolving Line of Credit 

The Company s $15,000,000 line of credit with Bank of America, N.A. (the  Lender ) expired on
February 28, 2006, and was replaced by a revolving credit agreement, also with the Lender. The new
credit facility will terminate no later than February 28, 2008. The terms and conditions are
substantially similar to the credit facility it replaced, except that the maximum borrowing
availability under the facility was increased to $40,000,000 and the facility contains a sublimit
of $15,000,000 to cover letters of credit. In addition, borrowings on the line of credit will bear
reduced interest at LIBOR plus 150 basis points. An unused commitment fee of 0.25% per annum,
payable in arrears, is also required.

All borrowings under the line of credit are collateralized by all tangible assets of the
Company. The line of credit agreement includes customary restrictions regarding additional
indebtedness, business operations, permitted acquisitions, liens, guarantees, transfers and sales
of assets, and maintaining the Company s primary accounts with the Lender. Borrowing availability
under the line of credit is equal to the Company s EBITDA. For fiscal year ending September 30,
2006, EBITA was $37,571,000. The agreement requires the Company to comply with a specific EBITDA
to Funded Debt ratio, and contains customary events of default, including the failure to make
timely payments and the failure to satisfy covenants, which would permit the Lender to accelerate
repayment of borrowings under the agreement if not cured within the applicable grace period. As of
September 30, 2006, the Company was in compliance with these covenants and the financial ratio.

At September 30, 2006, there were no borrowings outstanding against the line of credit.
Letters of credit outstanding at September 30, 2006 amounted to $1,394,000, and $36,177,000 was
available on the line of credit. During fiscal year 2006, the $11,000,000 balance outstanding at
September 30, 2005 was repaid.

Note 8   Stock-Based Benefit Plans 

The Argon ST 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (assumed in the merger with Sensytech) was approved by
the stockholders on May 30, 2002, and provides for the granting of incentive stock options,
restricted stock, and or performance awards to key employees and outside members of the board of
directors. The Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the board of directors.
Options granted under the plan are awarded at the closing price of the stock as reported on the
NASDAQ Global Select Market on the grant date. The maximum term of the option is ten years.
Options may vest over a period of one to five years. If a grantee s employment terminates for any
reason other than death, disability or retirement, the grantee may exercise the option within 90
days of the date of termination. Upon a termination due to death or permanent disability, unless
otherwise provided in the award agreement, the option will become 100% vested and exercisable with
12 months of termination. Upon a grantee s retirement, unless otherwise provided in the award
agreement, the option will become 100% vested and may be exercised within 90 days of the date of
retirement. The Plan also provides for full vesting of all options upon certain events including a
change in control. Options granted under the Plan are not transferable, other than by will or the
laws of descent and distribution.

The Argon Engineering Associates, Inc. Stock Plan (the  Argon Engineering Plan ) provided for
the issuance of incentive and non-statutory stock options and restricted stock to eligible
employees of Argon Engineering and its affiliates. As a result of the merger, each outstanding
option to purchase Argon Engineering common stock under the Argon Engineering Plan was converted
into an option to purchase Argon ST common stock, with the number of shares able to be purchased
and the exercise price adjusted in accordance with the merger exchange ratio. No acceleration of
vesting of options under the Argon Engineering Plan occurred in connection with the merger. The
Argon Engineering Plan was frozen as of September 29, 2004 and no additional awards will be granted
under the Argon Engineering Plan subsequent to that date. The only participants in the Argon
Engineering Plan are those employees who received awards prior to the September 29, 2004. There are
989,738 options outstanding under for this plan as of September 30, 2006.

63 

Adoption of SFAS No. 123R 

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment,  ( SFAS No. 123R ) which
requires that compensation
costs related to share-based payment transactions be recognized in financial statements. SFAS No.
123R requires all companies to measure compensation costs for all share-based payments at fair
value, and eliminates the option of using the intrinsic method of accounting provided for in
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  ( APB No.
25 ) which generally resulted in no compensation expense recorded in the financial statements
related to the grant of stock options to employees and directors if certain conditions were met.

Effective October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective
method. Under this method, compensation costs for all awards granted after the date of adoption
and the unvested portion of previously granted awards outstanding at the date of adoption will be
measured at estimated fair value and included in operating expenses over the vesting period during
which an employee provides service in exchange for the award. Accordingly, prior period amounts
presented herein have not been restated to reflect the adoption of SFAS No. 123R.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the Company included all tax benefits resulting from
the exercise of stock options as operating cash flows in the consolidated statements of cash flows.
In accordance with SFAS No. 123R, for the period beginning October 1, 2005, excess tax benefits
from the exercise of stock options are presented as financing cash flows. The excess tax benefits
totaled $2,015,000 for the year ended September 30, 2006. Such benefits were $3,798,000 for the
year ended September 30, 2005 and are presented as a component of operating cash flows in that
period.

As a result of adoption SFAS No. 123R, the Company recorded stock-based compensation of
$1,921,000, or $1,505,000 after tax, in its statement of earnings for the year ended September 30,
2006. This stock-based compensation reduced both basic and diluted earnings per share by $0.07 for
the year ended September 30, 2006.

Fair Value Determination 

The fair value concepts were not changed significantly in SFAS No. 123R; however, in adopting
this standard, companies must choose among alterative valuation models and amortization
assumptions. The Company has elected to use a Binomial option pricing model, based on the Hull and
White model, and straight-line amortization of compensation expense over the requisite service
period of the grant. The Company will reconsider use of the Binomial model if additional
information becomes available in the future that indicates another model would be more appropriate,
or if grants issued in future periods have characteristics that cannot be reasonably estimated
using this model. Options issued in the years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 used the
Black-Scholes-Morton model.

The Company has 10-year options. In calculating fair value, the following assumptions were
used for option grants granted during the year ended September 30, 2006.

Expected Volatility.  The expected volatility of the Company s shares was estimated based upon
the historical volatility of the Company s share price over an historical period, as being
representative of the price volatility expected in the future. This volatility is comparable to
the volatilities reported by companies within our peer group.

Risk-free Interest Rate.  The Company bases the risk-free interest rate used in the Binomial
valuation method on the implied yield available on a U.S. Treasury note on the applicable grant
date, with a term equal to the expected term of the underlying grants.

Dividend Yield.  The Binomial valuation model calls for a single expected dividend yield as an
input. The Company has not paid dividends in the past nor does it expect to pay dividends in the
future. As such, the Company used a dividend yield percentage of zero.

Expected Term.  The expected term used in this Binomial model is ten years, the contractual
term of the options.

64 

Exercise Factor.  The exercise factor is the ratio by which the stock price must increase from
the exercise price before the employee is expected to exercise, as estimated by management.

Post-vest Percentage.  The post-vest percentage is the rate at which employees are likely to
exercise their options earlier than usual because they are leaving the Company, as estimated by
management. Employees have 90 days and directors have 1 year to exercise their options upon
termination of employment or resignation from the board. The post-vest percentage used in valuing
options granted during the year ended September 30, 2006 was 3.08%. For options granted to
directors and certain individual awards, the post vest percentage was zero.

The following chart provides the range of volatility, risk fee rates and exercise factors used
to calculate fair value for options awarded during the year ended September 30, 2006. No options
were awarded during the year ended September 30, 2005.

Stock Compensation Expense 

The Company recorded $1,921,000 ($1,505,000 net of tax) of stock-based compensation expense
for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. Stock-based compensation of $907,000 and $1,014,000
is included in Cost of Revenues and General and Administrative expense, respectively.

In prior years, while accounting for stock options under APB No. 25 and disclosing a pro forma
expense calculation under SFAS No. 123, the Company did not include a forfeiture rate when
calculating pro forma expense related to the options. In accordance with SFAS No. 123R, the
Company estimates forfeitures and is recognizing compensation expense only for those share-based
awards that are expected to vest.

As of September 30, 2006, there was $4,494,000 of total unrecognized compensation cost related
to nonvested share-based compensation arrangements. This cost is expected to be fully amortized in
five years, with half of the total amortization cost being recognized within the next 12 to 18
months.

Stock Option Activity 

During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, the Company granted stock options to purchase
553,300 shares of common stock at a weighted-average exercise price of $29.11 per share. The
Binomial weighted-average fair value of the options granted during the year ended September 30,
2006 was $13.09 per share. Of these options, 478,300 vest at the rate of 20% per year over five
years from the date of grant and 75,000 of these options vest in full one year after the date of
grant. All of the options expire ten years from the grant date. For the year ended September 30,
2006, the average closing price was $28.36 per share.

65 

The following table summarizes stock option activity for the year ended September 30, 2006:

The method used to value options in fiscal 2004 was the Black-Scholes option pricing method.  No options were awarded
in fiscal year 2005.  The weighted average fair value of option grants awarded in fiscal year 2004 was $5.05.  The intrinsic
value of options exercised was $10,019,000 and $766,000 for fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Information with respect to stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable at
September 30, 2006 was as follows:

Employee Stock Purchase Plan 

The Company maintains an employee stock purchase plan (ESPP), as provided under the Argon ST
Stock Incentive Plan, and has reserved 100,000 shares for issuance under the plan. The ESPP is
available to all employees eligible on the start date of the semi-annual enrollment periods.
Eligible employees may purchase the Company s common stock through payroll deductions up to 10% of
the employee s compensation, at a price equal to 95% of the lower of the fair market value of the
common stock on the enrollment date, or the fair market value of the common stock on the purchase
date. For the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, employees purchased 33,002 and 45,694
shares, respectively, under the ESPP.

66 

Note 9   Retirement Plans 

Argon ST has a 401(k) profit sharing plan covering employees who have worked at least 1,000
hours and meet certain other eligibility requirements. Under the plan, the employer can match
employee 401(k) salary deferrals
up to a maximum of six percent of eligible compensation, as well as make a discretionary
profit sharing contribution. Profit sharing contributions to the 401(k) plan are determined
annually by the employer. Argon ST formerly had a money purchase pension plan which was terminated
in fiscal year 2004. The money purchase plan was replaced by a fixed 3% safe harbor 401(k)
contribution to all employees, whether they participate in the 401(k) plan or not, in addition to
the maximum 6% match to plan participants. The 401(k) plan match, discretionary profit sharing,
money purchase pension plan and safe harbor 401(k) contributions were $5,718,000, $3,794,000 and
$2,965,000 for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.

Note 10   Income Taxes 

The provisions for income taxes consist of the following:

The components of Argon ST s net deferred tax asset (liability) are as follows:

The tax effect of temporary differences that give rise to the net deferred tax asset
(liability) is as follows:

67 

Based on its historical profitability, Argon ST has determined that there is not a need for a
valuation allowance with respect to the utilization of net operating loss carry forward (NOLs) or
other deferred tax assets. As
of September 30, 2006, the NOL carry forward amounted to $5,181,000. These NOLs were acquired
in the acquisition of Daedalus Enterprises, Inc. in 1998, and San Diego Research Center, Inc. in
2006 and are subject to limitations as to their utilization under the Internal Revenue Code. The
NOL s acquired from Daedelus expire principally in 2011 through 2012, while the NOL s from San
Diego Research Center expire principally in 2026.

For the year ended September 30, 2006, the tax benefit on stock options exercised was
$2,015,000 compared to $3,798,000 for the year ended September 30, 2005.

A reconciliation between Argon ST s statutory tax rate and the effective tax rate is as
follows:

Argon ST s Pennsylvania production facility is located within the Keystone Opportunity Zone
which provides an exemption from state and local taxes through 2013. For fiscal year 2006 and
2005, this exemption reduced state taxes by approximately $254,000 and $84,000, respectively, or a
reduction to the effective tax rate of 0.5% and 0.2%, respectively.

Note 11   Leases and Other Commitments 

Leases  

Argon ST leases office facilities and equipment under operating lease agreements. Some of the
office facilities leases have renewal options. Rental payments on certain of the leases are
subject to annual increases based on a three percent escalation factor and increases in the
lessor s operating expenses. For those leases that require fixed rental escalations during their
lease terms, rent expense is recognized on a straight-line basis resulting in deferred rent of
$1,957,000 at September 30, 2006. The liability will be satisfied through future rental payments.
Rent expense amounted to $6,446,000, $5,676,000 and $3,302,000 for the years ended September 30,
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company also leases certain office equipment under capital
lease agreements.

Following is a schedule of future minimum lease payments due under the operating lease
agreements:

68 

Following is a schedule of future minimum lease payments due under the capital lease
obligations:

Employment Agreements  

In connection with the acquisitions completed during the year end September 30, 2006, the
Company entered into employment agreements with certain key employees of the acquired companies.
These employment contracts cover a period of one to three years and provide payment only if the
individual remains in employment with the Company. At September 30, 2006, the outstanding
commitment under these agreements is $1,508,000.

Note 12   Research and Development Expenses 

Internally funded research and development costs are included in general and administrative
expenses in the consolidated income statements. Internal research and development expenses amounted
to $6,286,000, $3,992,000 and $1,301,000 for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

Note 13   Fair Value of Financial Instruments 

Based on existing rates, economic conditions and short maturities, the carrying amount of all
of the financial instruments at September 30, 2006 and 2005 are reasonable estimates of their fair
values. Argon ST s financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable,
accounts payable and notes payable.

Note 14   Capital Stock 

Common Stock  

The Company s common stock has a par value of $0.1. Proceeds from the issue of the common
stock that is greater than $0.1 per share is credited to additional paid in capital. Holders of
shares of common stock are entitled to one vote per common share held on all matters voted on by
the company s stockholders.

On December 12, 2005, the Company sold 1,725,000 shares of our common stock during a secondary
stock offering for net proceeds of approximately $46,768,000.

Treasury Stock  

As of September 30, 2006, the Company has repurchased 126,245 shares of treasury stock at a
cost of $534,000. Treasury stock is reported as part of the consolidated stockholders  equity.
During 2000, the Company began acquiring shares of its common stock in connection with a stock
repurchase program announced in May 2000. That program authorized the Company to purchase up to
500,000 common shares from time to time on the open market. The Company has not repurchased any
stock since fiscal year 2003.

69 

Note 15   Segment Reporting 

Argon ST has reviewed its business operations and determined that the Company operates in a
single homogeneous business segment. Financial information is reviewed and evaluated by the chief
operating decision maker on a consolidated basis relating to the single business segment. The
Company sells similar products and services that exhibit similar economic characteristics to
similar classes of customers, primarily the U.S. government. Revenue is internally reviewed
monthly by management on an individual contract basis as a single business segment.

Note 16   Foreign Currency Exchange Contracts 

Argon ST occasionally issues orders or subcontracts to foreign companies in local currency.
At September 30, 2005, the Company had a contract that locked in the exchange rate to purchase
 3,660,000 for $6,634,000 to remit to an UK subcontractor. Under Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 133,   Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,   derivative
instruments that are accounted for as cash flow hedges must be recorded on the balance sheet as an
asset or liability with any gain or loss recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
income until recognized in earnings. The fair value of the exchange contracts was based upon
quoted market prices. For the year ended September 30, 2005, the Company recorded an unrealized
loss of $115,000 (net of tax benefit of $70,000) as accumulated other comprehensive loss with an
offsetting amount recorded in accrued liabilities. During the year ended September 30, 2006, the
currency contract was completed and the loss was recorded to operations.

Note 17   Advances and Cash Held in Escrow 

In connection with its acquisition of Radix Technologies, Inc., Argon ST was required to
advance funds to an escrow account and to place the remainder of the acquisition price in a
restricted cash account as of September 30, 2005. The acquisition was completed on October 1, 2005
and the cash was disbursed to the shareholders of Radix Technologies, Inc.

Note 18   Subsequent Events 

On November 15, 2006, the Company announced that it has been awarded a multi-year contract for
the continued development and production of the AN/SLQ-25A Torpedo Countermeasures System for the
U.S. Navy. The contract was awarded by the U.S. Naval Sea Systems Command (NAVSEA 415) for the
continued development and support of the AN/SLQ-25A system which is widely deployed on Navy surface
ships. Work under the contract will primarily be accomplished at the Company s Smithfield,
Pennsylvania facility with support from the corporate headquarters in Fairfax, Virginia. The
contract calls for a base year with four additional option years. The first increment of tasking
on the base year has a value of $17,650,000. It is anticipated that additional tasks and funding
will be added to this contract during both the base and four option years.

During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, the Company incurred costs totaling
approximately $4,436,000 related to this contract. Such costs were accounted for as Deferred
Project Cost as of September 30, 2006. See Note 1   Deferred Project Costs.

Note 19   Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) 

Argon ST maintains a September 30 fiscal year-end for annual financial reporting purposes.
Argon ST presents its interim periods ending on the Sunday nearest the end of the month for each
quarter consistent with labor and billing cycles. As a result, the each quarter of a fiscal year
may contain more days than other quarters of that year or other quarters of other fiscal years.
Management does not believe that this practice has a material effect on quarterly results or upon
the comparability of those results. The following tables contain selected unaudited consolidated statement of
earnings data for each quarter of fiscal years 2006 and 2005.

70 

71 

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Our management has evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act)) as of
September 30, 2006. Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer have concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective
to ensure that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the
Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in
Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal
control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 based on the framework in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on our assessment under the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework , our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of September 30, 2006. Grant Thornton LLP, the Company s independent registered
public accounting firm, has issued an opinion on the Company s assessment of its internal control
over financial reporting. This opinion appears in the Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm on page 46 of this annual report on Form 10-K.

This assessment excluded the internal control over financial reporting at Radix Technologies,
Inc. ( Radix ), which was acquired on October 1, 2005, and San Diego Research Center, Incorporated
( SDRC ), which was acquired on July 3, 2006. The total combined revenues of Radix and SDRC represented
less than 7% of the Company s consolidated total
revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 and the total combined net income of Radix and SDRC represented less than
1% of the Company s consolidated total net income for the fiscal year ended September 30,
2006.

Change in Internal Controls 

During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, there were no changes in our internal control
over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended) that have materially affected these controls, or are reasonably likely
to materially affect these controls subsequent to the evaluation of these controls.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION. 

None.

72 

PART III 

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

Certain information required by Part III is omitted from this Annual Report on Form 10-K and
is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our annual meeting of
stockholders to be filed not later than 120 days after September 30, 2006, with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A (the  Proxy Statement ). Certain information
relating to our executive officers appears on page 29 of this Form 10-K Annual Report.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

Information with respect to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS 

Information with respect to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

Information with respect to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 

Information with respect to Principal Accountant Fees and Services is contained under the
caption  Principal Accountant Fees and Services  in the Proxy Statement and such information is
incorporated herein by reference.

73 

PART IV 

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

Financial Statements Schedules 

All of the financial statement schedules to be filed as part of the Annual report on Form 10-K are
included in Item 8.

Exhibits 

* 
       
     Filed herewith 

** 
       
     Furnished herewith 

Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 

74 

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

ARGON ST, INC. 
(Registrant) 

By:   
     /s/ Terry L. Collins

Terry L. Collins, Ph.D.  

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President  

Date: December 14, 2006

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

Signature 
       
     Title 

/s/ Terry L. Collins

Terry L. Collins

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President  

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ S. Kent Rockwell

S. Kent Rockwell

Vice Chairman and Vice President, Corporate Development  

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ Victor F. Sellier

Victor F. Sellier

Vice President, Business Operations, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Director (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)  

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ Thomas E. Murdock

Thomas E. Murdock

Vice President, Strategic Program Development and Director  

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ David C. Karlgaard

David C. Karlgaard

Director  

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ Peter A. Marino

Peter A. Marino

Director  

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ Robert McCashin

Robert McCashin

Director  

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ John Irvin

John Irvin

Director  

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ Lloyd A. Semple

Lloyd A. Semple

Director  

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ Maureen Baginski

Maureen Baginski

Director  

Date: December 14, 2006

75 

<EX-21>
 2
 w28026exv21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21

LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES  

Name 
       
     State of Incorporation 

Radix Technologies, Inc.

California 1  

San Diego Research Center, Inc.

Delaware 2  

Daedalus Enterprises Export Corporation (inactive)

Barbados, West Indies 

76 

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 3
 w28026exv23w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

exv23w1 

EXHIBIT 23.1

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Nos.
333-103071, 333-119862 and 333-132174) and the Registration Statement Form S-3 (No. 333-128211) of
our report dated December 7, 2006 with respect to the fiscal year 2006 consolidated financial
statements, management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Argon ST, Inc. and
subsidiaries included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended September 30, 2006.

Grant Thornton LLP

McLean, Virginia 
December 7, 2006

77 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 w28026exv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1

CERTIFICATIONS  

I, Terry L. Collins, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Argon ST, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this annual report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results
of operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
annual report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a. 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

b. 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c. 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d. 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a. 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b. 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ Terry L. Collins

Terry L. Collins

Chief Executive Officer

78 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 w28026exv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2

CERTIFICATIONS  

I, Victor F. Sellier, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Argon ST, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this annual report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results
of operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
annual report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a. 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

b. 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c. 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d. 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a. 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b. 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ Victor F. Sellier

Victor F. Sellier

Chief Financial Officer

79 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 w28026exv32w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1

CERTIFICATION OF PERIODIC FINANCIAL REPORT 
OF ARGON ST, INC. 

We, the undersigned, being the chief executive officer and chief financial officer,
respectively, of Argon ST, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), do hereby certify, to the
best of our information, knowledge and belief, that (1) the Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
September 30, 2006 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) and (2) the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

/s/ Terry L. Collins

Terry L. Collins

Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Victor F. Sellier

Victor F. Sellier

Chief Financial Officer

Dated: December 14, 2006

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
has been provided to Argon ST, Inc. and will be retained by Argon ST, Inc. and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

80 

</EX-32.1>

