<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061219_10-K_edgar_data_315189_0001104659-06-082456_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3875375</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>300868</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2380202</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>85</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-082456.hdr.sgml : 20061219
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061219150631
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-082456
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20061031
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061219
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061219

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			DEERE & CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000315189
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT [3523]
		IRS NUMBER:				362382580
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-04121
		FILM NUMBER:		061286291

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE JOHN DEERE PLACE
		CITY:			MOLINE
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			61265-8098
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(309) 765-5688

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE JOHN DEERE PLACE
		CITY:			MOLINE
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			61265-8098

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Eu37FnTlE0fLsOA+ZyQfQKAFNOO1AmFVQ/zLPTMBoDvPb3FtOoqtMEzAyprH6oNF
 54S3YzRQG+Cjfa5r6wDcEA==

 0001104659-06-082456.txt : 20061219

10-K
 1
 a06-25680_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION   

   WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-K   

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION
13 OR 15(d)   

   OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934   

   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED OCTOBER
31, 2006   

Commission file number 1-4121   

   DEERE
  COMPANY   

  (Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter)  

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (b) OF THE ACT   

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO
SECTION 12 (g) OF THE ACT: NONE   

  Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act.   

  Yes    x     No    o  

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.   

  Yes    o     No    x  

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.  

  Yes    x    No    o  

Indicate by check
mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.       o  

  Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and
non-accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):  

  Large accelerated filer   x              Accelerated filer   o              Non-accelerated filer   o  

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  

  Yes    o     No    x  

The aggregate quoted market price of voting stock of registrant held by
nonaffiliates at April 30, 2006 was    $20,594,210,725.  At November 30, 2006, 227,532,167 shares of
common stock, $1 par value, of the registrant were outstanding.  Documents Incorporated by Reference . Portions of the proxy
statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on February 28,
2007 are incorporated by reference in Part III.   

PART
I   

  ITEM 1.                                                         BUSINESS.  

   Products   

  Deere   Company (Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively called
John Deere) have operations which are categorized into four major business
segments.  

   The  agricultural equipment  segment
manufactures and distributes a full line of farm equipment and related service
parts     including tractors; combine,
cotton and sugarcane harvesters; tillage, seeding and soil preparation
machinery; sprayers; hay and forage equipment; integrated agricultural
management systems technology; and precision agricultural irrigation equipment.   

  The  commercial and consumer equipment  segment
manufactures and distributes equipment, products and service parts for
commercial and residential uses   including tractors for lawn, garden,
commercial and utility purposes; mowing equipment, including walk-behind
mowers; golf course equipment; utility vehicles; landscape products and
irrigation equipment; and other outdoor power products.  

  The  construction and forestry 
segment manufactures, distributes to dealers and sells at retail a broad range
of machines and service parts used in construction, earthmoving, material
handling and timber harvesting   including backhoe loaders; crawler dozers and
loaders; four-wheel-drive loaders; excavators; motor graders; articulated dump
trucks; landscape loaders; skid-steer loaders; and log skidders, feller
bunchers, log loaders, log forwarders, log harvesters and related attachments.  

  The products and services produced by the segments above are marketed
primarily through independent retail dealer networks and major retail outlets.  

  The  credit  segment primarily finances sales
and leases by John Deere dealers of new and used agricultural, commercial and
consumer, and construction and forestry equipment. In addition, it provides
wholesale financing to dealers of the foregoing equipment, provides operating
loans, finances retail revolving charge accounts, offers certain crop risk
mitigation products and invests in wind energy generation.  

  John Deere s worldwide agricultural equipment; commercial and consumer
equipment; and construction and forestry operations are sometimes referred to
as the  Equipment Operations.   The
credit and certain miscellaneous service operations are sometimes referred to
as  Financial Services.   

  Additional information is presented in the discussion of business
segment and geographic area results on pages 19 and 20. The John Deere
enterprise has manufactured agricultural machinery since 1837. The present
Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1958.  

   The Company s Internet address is http://www.JohnDeere.com. Through
that address, the Company s  annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those
reports are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after
they are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The information contained on the Company s
website is not included in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.   

1     

Market
Conditions and Outlook   

  The Company s equipment sales are projected to be roughly flat for the
full year and to increase approximately 5 percent for the first quarter of
2007, compared to the same periods in 2006. Consistent with ongoing asset
management initiatives, production levels are expected to be down about 4
percent for both the year and first quarter. Construction and forestry
production in the United States and Canada is expected to be down about 16
percent in the first quarter. Based on the above, net income is forecast to be
around $1.325 billion for the year and in a range of $150 million to $175
million for the first quarter.  

   Agricultural Equipment   . Worldwide farm economic conditions remain quite promising. Demand for
crops is benefiting from a global population that is gaining in both size and
affluence, and from a sharp rise in the use of renewable fuels in the United
States and other parts of the world. Prices for key farm commodities have
surged recently and worldwide carryover stocks for wheat and corn are at 30
year lows in relation to consumption. Nevertheless, fiscal 2007 sales in the
United States and Canada are expected to get off to a slow start as a result of
higher than desired used equipment inventories and customer uncertainty
regarding the direction of United States farm legislation. In addition, farmers 
concerns over the sustainability of the recent commodity price rally, and with
respect to input costs, are expected to weigh on 2007 sales. Based on these
factors, the Company projects that industry retail sales in the United States
and Canada will be roughly flat for the year.  

  In Western Europe, industry retail sales are forecast to be flat to
down slightly for the year due to the effect of a higher value-added tax in
Germany and further farm consolidation. Following the sharp downturn of the
last two years, industry sales in South America are expected to be down about
10 percent for 2007. The forecast reduction is primarily related to uncertainty
over government sponsored financing programs in Brazil. Sales in Australia are
expected to be down by nearly 25 percent for the year, due in large part to the
effect of serious drought on the nation s wheat crop.  

  Based on these factors and market conditions, worldwide sales of
John Deere agricultural equipment are forecast to increase by about 4
percent for full year 2007. First quarter sales are expected to rise by about
10 percent, being driven by new products in Europe and by a late calendar year
2006 sales pickup in Germany, expected in advance of the value-added tax hike
on January 1. Farm machinery production in the United States and Canada is
expected to be down approximately 8 percent for the first quarter in comparison
with the same period a year ago.  

   Commercial   Consumer Equipment   . John Deere commercial and consumer equipment
sales are forecast to be up about 4 percent for the year. Growth in the
landscapes operations and the successful introduction of new products are
expected to more than offset the impact of a softer market for residential
housing.  

   Construction   Forestry   . Markets for construction and forestry equipment are expected to see a
slowdown in 2007. While nonresidential spending is forecast for further
improvement, residential housing construction is expected to be lower. In this
environment, the Company s worldwide sales of construction and forestry
equipment are forecast to decrease by about 5 percent for fiscal 2007.  

   Credit   . Full year
2007 net income for Deere s credit operations is forecast to be approximately
$345 million. The expected improvement is being driven by growth in the credit
portfolio, largely offset by higher selling and administrative expenses in
support of division growth initiatives.  

   2006
Consolidated Results Compared with 2005   

  Worldwide net income in 2006
was $1,694 million, or $7.18 per share diluted ($7.26 basic), compared with
$1,447 million, or $5.87 per share diluted ($5.95 basic), in 2005. Income from
continuing operations, which excludes the Company s discontinued health care business
(see Note 2), was $1,453   

2     

million, or $6.16 per share
diluted ($6.23 basic) in 2006, compared to $1,414 million, or $5.74 per share
diluted ($5.81 basic) last year.  Net
sales and revenues from continuing operations increased 5 percent to $22,148
million in 2006, compared with $21,191 million in 2005. Net sales of the
Equipment Operations increased 2 percent in 2006 to $19,884 million from
$19,401 million last year. This included a positive effect for price changes of
3 percent. Equipment net sales in the United States and Canada increased 3
percent in 2006. Net sales outside the United States and Canada increased by 2
percent, which included a negative effect of 1 percent for currency
translation.  

  Worldwide Equipment
Operations had an operating profit of $1,905 million in 2006, compared with
$1,842 million in 2005. Higher operating profit was primarily due to improved
price realization and lower retirement benefit costs. Partially offsetting
these factors were increased raw material costs, higher selling and
administrative expenses, the impact of lower shipping volumes and increased
spending for research and development.  

  The Equipment Operations 
net income was $1,089 million in 2006, compared with $1,096 million in 2005.
The same operating factors mentioned above along with the expense related to
the repurchase of certain outstanding debt securities and higher effective tax
rates affected these results.  

  Net income of the Company s
Financial Services operations in 2006 increased to $584 million, compared with
$345 million in 2005, primarily due to the sale of the health care operations.
Income from the Financial Services continuing operations in 2006 was $344
million, compared with $312 million in 2005. The increase was primarily a
result of growth in the credit portfolio, partially offset by a higher
provision for credit losses. Additional information is presented in the
following discussion of the credit operations.  

  Income from discontinued
operations was $241 million in 2006, or $1.02 per share diluted ($1.03 basic),
compared to $33 million, or $.13 per share diluted ($.14 basic), last
year.  The increase was primarily due to
the previously mentioned sale of the health care operations.  

  The cost of sales to net
sales ratio for 2006 was 77.3 percent, compared to 78.2 percent last year. The
decrease was primarily due to improved price realization and lower retirement
benefit costs, partially offset by higher raw material costs and lower shipping
volumes.  

  Finance and interest income,
and interest expense increased this year primarily due to growth in the credit
operations portfolio and higher financing rates. Other income increased this
year primarily due to investment income from marketable securities, insurance
premiums for extended warranties, crop insurance commissions and service income.
Research and development costs increased this year due to a large number of new
products. Selling, administrative and general expenses increased primarily due
to growth, share-based compensation expense and the provision for credit
losses. Other operating expenses were higher primarily as a result of the
expense related to the repurchase of outstanding notes (see Note 3), extended
warranty claims, depreciation related to a higher level of equipment on
operating leases, and service expenses.  

  The Company has several
defined benefit pension plans and defined benefit health care and life
insurance plans. The Company s postretirement benefit costs for these plans in
2006 were $447 million, compared to $538 million in 2005.  The long-term expected return on plan assets,
which is reflected in these costs, was an expected gain of 8.4 percent in 2006
and 8.5 percent in 2005, or $795 million in 2006, compared to $744 million in
2005. The actual return was a gain of $1,364 million in 2006, compared to a
gain of $1,057 million in 2005. In 2007, the expected return will be
approximately 8.4 percent. The total unrecognized losses related to the plans
at October 31, 2006 and 2005 were $3,693 million and $3,969 million,
respectively. The Company expects postretirement benefit costs in 2007 to be
approximately the same as 2006. The Company makes any required contributions to
the plan assets under applicable regulations and voluntary contributions from
time to time based on the Company s liquidity and ability to make tax-deductible
contributions. Total Company contributions to the plans were $866 million in
2006  

3     

and $859 million in 2005,
which include direct benefit payments for unfunded plans. These contributions
also included voluntary contributions to the United States plan assets of $739
million in 2006 and $556 million in 2005. Total Company contributions in 2007
are expected to be approximately $443 million, including voluntary
contributions to United States plan assets of approximately $340 million. See
the following discussion of  Critical Accounting Policies  for more information
about postretirement benefit obligations.  

  Additional
information on 2006 results is presented on pages 18 - 20.  

   EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS   

   Agricultural Equipment   

  Sales of agricultural equipment,
particularly in the United States and Canada, are affected by total farm cash
receipts, which reflect levels of farm commodity prices, acreage planted, crop
yields and the amount and timing of government payments. Sales are also
influenced by general economic conditions, farm land prices, farmers  debt
levels, interest rates, agricultural trends, including the production of and
demand for renewable fuels, energy costs and other input costs associated with
farming. Other important factors affecting new equipment sales are the value
and level of used equipment, including tractors, harvesting equipment,
self-propelled sprayers and seeding equipment. 
Weather and climatic conditions can also affect buying decisions of
equipment purchasers.  

  Innovations to machinery and technology also influence buying. For
example, larger, more productive equipment is well accepted where farmers are
striving for more efficiency in their operations.  The Company has developed a comprehensive agricultural
management systems approach using advanced technology and global satellite
positioning to enable farmers to better control input costs and yields, to
improve environmental management and to gather information.  

  Large, cost-efficient, highly-mechanized agricultural
operations account for an important share of worldwide farm output. The large-size
agricultural equipment used on such farms has been particularly important to
John Deere. A large proportion of the Equipment Operations  total agricultural
equipment sales in the United States is comprised of tractors over 100
horsepower, self-propelled combines, self-propelled cotton pickers,
self-propelled forage harvesters and self-propelled sprayers.  

   Seasonality   .  Seasonal
patterns in retail demand for agricultural equipment result in substantial
variations in the volume and mix of products sold to retail customers during
various times of the year. Seasonal demand must be estimated in advance, and
equipment must be manufactured in anticipation of such demand in order to
achieve efficient utilization of manpower and facilities throughout the year.
For certain equipment, the Company offers early order discounts to retail
customers. Production schedules are based, in part, on these early order
programs. The Equipment Operations incur substantial seasonal variation in cash
flows to finance production and inventory of equipment.  The Equipment Operations also incur costs to
finance sales to dealers in advance of seasonal demand. New combine and cotton
harvesting equipment is sold under early order programs with waivers of retail
finance charges available to customers who take delivery of machines during
off-season periods. In the United States and Canada, used equipment trade-ins,
of which there are typically several transactions for every new combine and
cotton harvesting equipment sale, are supported with a fixed pool of funds
available to dealers which are then responsible for all associated inventory
and sale costs.  

  An
important part of the competition within the agricultural equipment industry
during the past decade has come from a diverse variety of short-line and
specialty manufacturers with differing manufacturing and marketing methods.
Because of industry conditions, especially the merger of certain large
integrated competitors and the global capability of many competitors, the
agricultural equipment business continues to undergo significant change and may
become even more competitive.  

4     

Commercial and Consumer Equipment   

  The John Deere commercial and
consumer segment includes front-engine lawn tractors, lawn and garden tractors,
compact utility tractors, utility tractors, zero-turning radius mowers, front
mowers and a variety of utility vehicles. A broad line of associated implements
for mowing, tilling, snow and debris handling, aerating, and many other
residential, commercial, golf and sports turf care applications are also
included. The product line also includes walk-behind mowers and other outdoor
power products. Retail sales of these commercial and consumer equipment
products are influenced by weather conditions, consumer spending patterns and
general economic conditions.  To increase
asset turnover and reduce the average level of field inventories through the
year the production and shipment schedules of the Company s product lines
closely correspond to the seasonal pattern of retail sales.  

  The division manufactures and sells walk-behind mowers in Europe under
the SABO brand as well as the John Deere brand. The division also builds
products for sale by mass retailers. Since 1999, the Company has built products
for sale through The Home Depot.  In
2006, the Company began selling products through Lowe s as well.  

  John Deere Landscapes, Inc., a unit of the division, distributes
irrigation equipment, nursery products and landscape supplies primarily to
landscape service professionals.  

  In addition to the equipment manufactured by the commercial and
consumer division, John Deere purchases certain products from other
manufacturers for resale.  

   Seasonality.   Retail
demand for the division s equipment normally is higher in the second and third
quarters.  The division is pursuing a
strategy of building and shipping as close to retail demand as possible.  Consequently, production, shipping and retail
sales normally will be proportionately higher in the second and third quarters
of each year. 

   Construction and Forestry   

  John Deere
construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment includes a
broad range of backhoe loaders, crawler dozers and loaders, four-wheel-drive
loaders, excavators, motor graders, articulated dump trucks, landscape loaders,
skid-steer loaders, log skidders, log feller bunchers, log loaders, log
forwarders, log harvesters and a variety of attachments.  

  Today, this
segment provides sizes of equipment that compete for over 90 percent of the
estimated total North American market for those categories of construction,
earthmoving and material handling equipment in which it competes. These
construction, earthmoving and material handling machines are distributed under
the Deere brand name. This segment also provides the most complete line of
forestry machines and attachments available in the world. These forestry
machines and attachments are distributed under the Deere, Timberjack and
Waratah brand names.  In addition to the
equipment manufactured by the Construction and Forestry division, John Deere
purchases certain products from other manufacturers for resale.  

  The prevailing
levels of residential, commercial and public construction and the condition of
the forest products industry influence retail sales of John Deere construction,
earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment. General economic
conditions, the level of interest rates and certain commodity prices such as
those applicable to pulp, paper and saw logs also influence sales.  

  The Company and
Hitachi have a joint venture for the manufacture of hydraulic excavators and
track log loaders in the United States and Canada.  The Company also distributes Hitachi brands
of construction and mining equipment in North, Central and South America. The
Company also has supply agreements with Hitachi under which a range of
construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry products  

5     

manufactured by
John Deere in the United States, Finland and New Zealand are distributed by
Hitachi in certain Far East markets.  

  The division has a
number of initiatives in the rent-to-rent, or short-term rental, market for
construction, earthmoving and material handling equipment. These include
specially designed rental programs for John Deere dealers and expanded
cooperation with major, national equipment rental companies.  

  The Company also
owns Nortrax, Inc., Nortrax Investments, Inc. and Ontrac Holdings, Inc.
(collectively called Nortrax). Nortrax is an authorized John Deere dealer for
construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment in a
variety of markets in the United States and Canada.  

   Engineering
and Research   

  John Deere makes large expenditures for engineering and research to
improve the quality and performance of its products, and to develop new
products. Such expenditures were $726 million or 3.7 percent of net sales of
equipment in 2006, $677 million or 3.5 percent 
in 2005,  and $612 million or 3.5
percent  in 2004.  

   Manufacturing   

   Manufacturing Plants   .
In the United States and Canada, the Equipment Operations own and operate 19
factory locations and lease and operate another three locations, which contain
approximately 27.3 million square feet of floor space. Of these 22 factories,
13 are devoted primarily to agricultural equipment, four to commercial and
consumer equipment, two to construction and forestry equipment, one to engines,
and two to hydraulic and power train components. Outside the United States and
Canada, the Equipment Operations own and operate:  agricultural equipment factories in Brazil,
China, France, Germany, India, Mexico, the Netherlands and Russia; engine
factories in Argentina, France, India and Mexico; a component factory in Spain;
commercial and consumer equipment factories in Germany and the Netherlands; and
forestry equipment factories in Finland and New Zealand. These factories
outside the United States and Canada contain approximately 12.3 million square
feet of floor space. The Equipment Operations also have financial interests in
other manufacturing organizations, which include agricultural equipment
manufacturers in China and the United States, an industrial truck manufacturer
in South Africa, the Hitachi joint venture that builds  hydraulic
excavators and track log loaders in the United States and Canada and ventures
that manufacture transaxles and transmissions used in certain commercial and
consumer equipment division products .  

  The engine factories referred to above manufacture non-road, heavy duty
diesel engines mostly for the Company s Equipment Operations; a significant
number of these engines are sold to global original equipment manufacturers.  

  John Deere s facilities are well maintained, in good operating
condition and are suitable for their present purposes. These facilities,
together with both short-term and long-term planned capital expenditures, are
expected to meet John Deere s manufacturing needs in the foreseeable future.  

  Capacity is adequate to satisfy the Company s current expectations for
retail market demand. The Equipment Operations  manufacturing strategy involves
the implementation of appropriate levels of technology and automation to allow
manufacturing processes to remain profitable at varying production levels.
Operations are also designed to be flexible enough to accommodate the product
design changes required to meet market conditions. Common manufacturing
facilities and techniques are employed in the production of components for
agricultural, commercial and consumer and construction and forestry equipment.  

  In order to utilize manufacturing facilities and technology more
effectively, the Equipment Operations pursue continuous improvements in
manufacturing processes. These include steps to streamline manufacturing
processes and enhance responsiveness to customers. The Company has implemented
flexible assembly lines that can handle a wider product mix and deliver
products when dealers and  

6     

customers require them. Additionally, considerable
effort is being directed to manufacturing cost reduction through process
improvement, product design, advanced manufacturing technology, enhanced
environmental management systems, supply management and logistics as well as
compensation incentives related to productivity and organizational structure.
The Company continues to experience raw materials and fuel cost pressures. The
Company has offset and expects to continue to offset any increased costs
through the above-described cost reduction measures and through pricing.
Significant cost increases, if they occur, could have an adverse effect on our
operating results. The Equipment Operations also pursue external sales of
selected parts and components that can be manufactured and supplied to third
parties on a competitive basis.  

   Capital Expenditures.   The
agricultural equipment, commercial and consumer equipment and construction and
forestry operations  capital expenditures totaled $481 million in 2006,
compared with $465 million in 2005, and $346 million in 2004. Provisions for
depreciation applicable to these operations  property, plant and equipment
during these years were $370 million, $349 million, and $333 million,
respectively. Capital expenditures for the Equipment Operations in 2007 are
currently estimated to be $570 million. The 2007 expenditures will relate
primarily to the modernization and restructuring of key manufacturing
facilities and will also relate to the development of new products. Future
levels of capital expenditures will depend on business conditions. 

   Patents and Trademarks   

  John Deere owns a significant number of patents, licenses and
trademarks. The Company believes that, in the aggregate, the rights under these
patents, licenses and trademarks are generally important to its operations, but
does not consider that any patent, license, trademark or related group of them
(other than its house trademarks, which include but are not limited to the  John
Deere  mark, the leaping deer logo, the  Nothing Runs Like a Deere  slogan and
green and yellow equipment colors) is of material importance in relation to
John Deere s business.  

   Marketing   

  In the United
States and Canada, the Equipment Operations distribute equipment and service
parts through the following facilities (collectively called sales
branches):  one agricultural equipment
and one commercial and consumer equipment sales and administration office each
supported by seven agricultural equipment and commercial and consumer equipment
sales branches; and one construction, earthmoving, material handling and
forestry equipment sales and administration office .   

  In addition, the Equipment Operations operate a centralized parts
distribution warehouse in coordination with several regional parts depots in
the United States and Canada and have an agreement with a third party to
operate a high-volume parts warehouse in Indiana.  

  The sales branches in the United States and Canada market John Deere
products at approximately 2984 dealer locations, most of which are
independently owned. Of these, approximately 1577 sell agricultural equipment,
while 537 sell construction, earthmoving, material handling and/or forestry
equipment. Nortrax owns some of the 537 locations. Commercial and consumer
equipment is sold by most John Deere agricultural equipment dealers, a few
construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment dealers,
and about 870 commercial and consumer equipment dealers, many of which also
handle competitive brands and dissimilar lines of products. In addition,
certain lawn and garden product lines are sold through mass merchandisers,
including The Home Depot and  Lowe s.  

  John Deere Landscapes operates its business from 287 branch locations
throughout the United States and Canada.  

  John Deere engines are marketed through 13
independent engine distributors.  

7     

Outside the United States and Canada, John Deere agricultural equipment
is sold to distributors and dealers for resale in over 130 countries.  Sales branches are located in Argentina,
Australia, Brazil, Germany, France, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Mexico, Poland,
Russia, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and  Uruguay. 
Export sales branches are located in Europe and the United States.  Associated companies doing business in China
also sell agricultural equipment. Commercial and consumer equipment sales
outside the United States and Canada occur primarily in Europe and Australia.
Construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment is sold to
distributors and dealers primarily by sales offices located in the United
States, Brazil, Singapore and Finland. 
Some of these dealers are independently owned while the Company owns
others.  

   Trade Accounts and Notes Receivable   

   Trade accounts and notes receivable arise from sales of goods to
dealers.   Most trade receivables
originated by the Equipment Operations are purchased by Financial Services. The
Equipment Operations compensate Financial Services at market rates of interest
for these receivables.  Additional
information appears in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

   FINANCIAL SERVICES   

   Credit Operations   

   United States and Canada   .  The Company s credit
subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Credit Companies) primarily
provide and administer financing for retail purchases from John Deere dealers
of new equipment manufactured by the Company s agricultural equipment,
commercial and consumer equipment, and construction and forestry divisions and
used equipment taken in trade for this equipment. Deere   Company and John
Deere Construction   Forestry Company are referred to as the  sales
companies.  John Deere Capital Corporation (Capital Corporation), a United
States credit subsidiary, purchases retail installment sales and loan contracts
(retail notes) from the sales companies. These retail notes are acquired by the
sales companies through John Deere retail dealers in the United States. John
Deere Credit Inc., a Canadian credit subsidiary, purchases and finances retail
notes acquired by John Deere Limited, the Company s Canadian sales branch.  The terms of retail notes and the basis on
which the Credit Companies acquire retail notes from the sales companies are
governed by agreements with the sales companies. The Credit Companies also
finance and service revolving charge accounts, in most cases acquired from and
offered through merchants in the agricultural, commercial and consumer, and
construction and forestry markets (revolving charge accounts).  Further, the Credit Companies finance and
service operating loans, in most cases offered through and acquired from farm
input providers or through direct relationships with agricultural producers (operating
loans).  Additionally, the Credit
Companies provide wholesale financing for inventories of John Deere
agricultural, commercial and consumer, and construction and forestry equipment
owned by dealers of those products (wholesale notes).  In the United States, the Credit Companies
also offer certain crop risk mitigation products and invest in wind energy
generation.  

  Retail notes acquired by the sales companies are immediately sold to
the Credit Companies. The Equipment Operations are the Credit Companies  major
source of business, but many retail purchasers of John Deere products finance
their purchases outside the John Deere organization.  

  The Credit Companies offer retail leases to equipment users in the
United States. A small number of leases are executed with units of local
government. Leases are usually written for periods of two to five years, and
frequently contain an option permitting the customer to purchase the equipment
at the end of the lease term. Retail leases are also offered in a generally
similar manner to customers in Canada through John Deere Credit Inc. and John
Deere Limited.  

8     

The Credit Companies  terms for financing equipment retail sales (other
than smaller items financed with unsecured revolving charge accounts) provide
for retention of a security interest in the equipment financed. The Credit
Companies  guidelines for minimum down payments, which vary with the types of
equipment and repayment provisions, are generally not less than 20 percent on
agricultural equipment, 10 percent on construction and forestry equipment and
10 percent on lawn and grounds care equipment used for personal use. Finance
charges are sometimes waived for specified periods or reduced on certain John
Deere products sold or leased in advance of the season of use or in other sales
promotions. The Credit Companies generally receive compensation from the sales
companies equal to a competitive interest rate for periods during which finance
charges are waived or reduced on the retail notes or leases. The cost is accounted
for as a deduction in arriving at net sales by the Equipment Operations.  

   The Company has an agreement with the Capital Corporation to make
income maintenance payments to the Capital Corporation such that its ratio of
earnings before fixed charges to fixed charges is not less than 1.05 to 1 for
any fiscal quarter. For 2006 and 2005, the Capital Corporation s ratios were
1.60 to 1 and 1.88 to 1, respectively, and never less than 1.53 to 1 and 1.74
to 1 for any fiscal quarter of 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company has
also committed to continue to own at least 51 percent of the voting shares of
capital stock of the Capital Corporation and to maintain the Capital
Corporation s consolidated tangible net worth at not less than $50 million.  The
Company s obligations to make payments to the Capital Corporation under the
agreement are independent of whether the Capital Corporation is in default on
its indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities.  Further, the Company s obligations under the
agreement are not measured by the amount of the Capital Corporation s
indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities. The Company s obligations to
make payments under this agreement are expressly stated not to be a guaranty of
any specific indebtedness, obligation or liability of the Capital Corporation
and are enforceable only by or in the name of the Capital Corporation.  No payments were necessary under this agreement
in 2006 or 2005.   

   Outside the United States and Canada   .  The
Credit Companies also offer financing, primarily for John Deere products, in
Australia, New Zealand, Russia, and in several countries in Europe and in Latin
America.  In certain areas, financing is
offered through cooperation agreements or joint ventures. Financing outside of
the United States and Canada is affected by a variety of customs and
regulations.  

  The Credit Companies also offer to select customers credit enhanced
international export financing for the purchase of John Deere Products.  

   Capital Expenditures   .  The Credit Companies  capital expenditures
totaled $292 million in 2006, compared with $46 million in 2005, and $4 million
in 2004.  Provisions for depreciation
applicable to these operations  property, plant and equipment during these
years were $8 million, $5 million, and $5 million respectively. Capital
expenditures for the credit operations in 2007 are currently estimated to be
$606 million.  The increases in capital
expenditures since 2004 have related primarily to wind energy generation.  

  Additional information on the Credit Companies appears on pages 19, 20
and 22.  

   ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS   

   The Company is subject to a wide variety of state, federal and
international environmental laws, rules and regulations. These laws, rules and
regulations may affect the way the Company conducts its operations, and failure
to comply with these regulations could lead to fines and other penalties. The
Company is also involved in the evaluation and clean-up of a limited number of
sites. Management does not expect that these matters will have a material
adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or results of operations
of the Company. W ith respect to acquired properties, the Company cannot
be certain that it has identified all adverse environmental conditions. The
Company expects that it will acquire additional properties in the future.  

9     

EMPLOYEES   

  At October 31, 2006, John Deere had approximately 46,500 full-time
employees, including approximately 27,000 employees in the United States and
Canada. From time to time, John Deere also retains consultants, independent
contractors, and temporary and part-time workers.  Unions are certified as bargaining agents for
approximately 38   percent of John Deere s United
States employees. Most of the Company s United States production and
maintenance workers are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the
United Auto Workers (UAW), with an expiration date of September 30, 2009.  

  Unions also represent the majority of employees at John Deere
manufacturing facilities outside the United States.  

   EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   

  Following are the names and ages of the executive officers of the
Company, their positions with the Company and summaries of their backgrounds
and business experience. All executive officers are elected or appointed by the
Board of Directors and hold office until the annual meeting of the Board of
Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in each year.  

Name, age and
  office (at December 1, 2006), 
  and year elected to office   

Principal occupation during last five years
  other 
  than office of the Company currently held   

Robert W. Lane  

57  

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

2000  

Has held this
  position for the last five years  

Samuel R. Allen  

53  

President, Worldwide Construction   Forestry and
  John Deere Power Systems  

2005  

2003-2005
  President, Global Financial Services and Corporate Human Resources; 2001-2002
  Senior Vice President Global Human Resources and Industrial Relations  

David C. Everitt  

54  

President, Agricultural Division-North America,
  Australia, Asia and Global Tractor and Implement Sourcing  

2006  

2001-2006
  President,, Agricultural Division-Europe, Africa, Middle East, South America
  and Global Harvesting Equipment Sourcing  

James A. Israel  

50  

President, John Deere Credit  

2006  

2003-2006 Vice
  President, Marketing and Product Support, Europe, Africa and Middle East;
  2000-2003 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Equipment Lending, John Deere
  Credit  

James R. Jenkins  

61  

Senior Vice President and General Counsel  

2000  

Has held this
  position for the last five years  

Nathan J. Jones  

50  

President, Worldwide Commercial and Consumer
  Division  

2006  

1997-2006 Senior  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

Michael J. Mack, Jr.  

50  

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

2006  

2004-2006 Vice
  President and Treasurer; 2001-2004 Senior Vice President, Marketing  
  Administration, Worldwide Commercial   Consumer Equipment Division  

H. J. Markley  

56  

President, Agricultural Division-Europe,
  Africa,  South America and Global
  Harvesting Equipment Sourcing  

2006  

2001-2006 President,  Agricultural Division-North America,
  Australia, Asia and Global Tractor and Implement Sourcing  

10  

ITEM 1A.              RISK
FACTORS.  

   Governmental Actions   .  The Company s agricultural business is
exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties related to the action or
inaction of governmental bodies.  The
outcome of the global negotiations under the auspices of the World Trade
Organization could have a material effect on the international flow of
agricultural commodities which may result in a corresponding effect on the
demand for agricultural equipment in many areas of the world.  

  In the United States, the 2007 Farm Bill may significantly affect
prices for farm commodities, particularly corn, cotton and rice, and this in
turn could affect farmers  demand for the Company s products and services.  

  The policies of the Brazilian government (including those related to
exchange rates and commodity prices) could significantly change the dynamics of
the agricultural economy in that country.  

   Changing Demand for Farm Outputs   .  Changing
worldwide demand for food and the demand for different forms of bio-energy
could have an effect on prices for farm commodities and consequently the demand
for the Company s agricultural equipment.  

   Globalization   .  The continuing globalization of agricultural
businesses may significantly change the dynamics of the Company s competition,
customer base and product offerings.  The
Company s efforts to grow its businesses depend to a large extent on its
success in developing geographic markets.  

   Economic Condition and Outlook   .  General economic conditions
can affect the demand for the Company s equipment as well.  Negative economic conditions or a negative
outlook, for example, can decrease housing starts and other construction and
dampen demand for equipment.  Weakness in
the overall farm economy can have a similar effect on agricultural equipment
sales.  

   Consumer Attitudes   .  The confidence the Company s customers have
in the general economic outlook can have a significant effect on their
propensity to purchase equipment and, consequently, on the Company s
sales.  The Company s ability to match
its new product offerings to its customers  anticipated preferences for
different types and sizes of equipment is important as well.  

   Weather.     Poor or unusual weather conditions,
particularly in the spring, can significantly affect the purchasing decisions
of the Company s customers, particularly the customers of the agricultural and
commercial and consumer segments.  Sales
in the important spring selling season can have a dramatic effect on the
commercial and consumer segment s financial results.  

   Raw Material Costs   .  Changes in the availability and price of raw
materials (such as steel, rubber and fuel) used in the production of the
Company s equipment could have an effect on its costs of production and, in
turn, on the success of the business.  

   Interest Rates and Credit Ratings   .  If
interest rates rise, they could have a dampening effect on overall economic
activity and could affect the demand for the Company s equipment.  In addition, funding costs are very important
to the Company s credit segment. 
Decisions and actions by credit rating agencies can affect the
availability and cost of funding for the Company.  Credit rating downgrades or negative changes
to ratings outlooks can increase the Company s cost of capital and hurt its
competitive position.  Guidance from rating
agencies as to acceptable leverage can affect the Company s returns as well.  

  The risks identified above should be considered in conjunction with
Management s Discussion and Analysis beginning on page 18, and,
specifically,  the other risks described
in the Safe Harbor Statement on pages 20 and 21.   The Company s results of operations may be
affected by these identified risks and/or by risks not currently contemplated.  

11     

ITEM 1B.               UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.  

  None.  

   ITEM 2.                  PROPERTIES  .   

  See  Manufacturing  in Item 1.  

  The Equipment Operations own 13 facilities housing sales branches, one
centralized parts depot, regional parts depots, transfer houses and warehouses
throughout the United States and Canada. These facilities contain approximately
4.3 million square feet of floor space. The Equipment Operations also own and
occupy buildings housing sales branches, one centralized parts depot and
regional parts depots in Australia, Brazil, Europe and New Zealand. These
facilities contain approximately 1.0 million square feet of floor space.  

  Deere   Company administrative offices and research facilities, all
of which are owned by John Deere, together contain about 2.5 million square
feet of floor space and miscellaneous other facilities total 1.0 million square
feet.  

  Overall, the Company owns approximately 48.1 million square feet of
facilities and leases approximately 8.7 million additional square feet in
various locations.  

  ITEM 3.                  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.  

  The Company is subject to various unresolved legal actions which arise
in the normal course of its business, the most prevalent of which relate to
product liability (including asbestos-related liability), retail credit,
software licensing, patent and trademark matters. Although it is not possible
to predict with certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal actions or the
range of possible loss, the Company believes these unresolved legal actions
will not have a material effect on its financial statements.  

  ITEM 4.                                                         SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO
A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  .  

  None.  

   PART
II   

  ITEM 5.                                                       MARKET
FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. 

  (a)                                     The Company s common stock is listed on the New
York Stock Exchange. See the information concerning quoted prices of the Company s
common stock, the number of stockholders and the data on dividends declared and
paid per share in Note 29 .   

  (b)                                    Not applicable  

12     

(c)           The Company s
purchases of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2006 were as
follows:  

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES  

(1)  On November 30, 2005, the
Company s board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to 26 million
shares of common stock.  

13     

ITEM 6.                  SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA.  

  Financial Summary  

*In 2006, the Company recognized a gain from the sale of discontinued
operations (health care operations) of $223 million after-tax, or $.94 per
share diluted ($.95 basic).  In 2006, the
Company also had special charges of $44 million after-tax, or $.19 per share,
for a tender offer and repurchase of outstanding notes and $28 million
after-tax, or $.12 per share, related to the closing and restructuring of
certain facilities.  In 2002, the Company
had special charges of $46 million after-tax, or $.18 per share, for the
closing and restructuring of certain facilities.  

  **Changed in prior years for the elimination of the discontinued health
care operations.  

  ITEM 7.                                                       MANAGEMENT S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 

  See the
information under the caption  Management s Discussion and Analysis  on pages
18 - 27.  

  ITEM
7A.              QUANTITATIVE AND
QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.  

  The Company is exposed to a variety of market risks, including interest
rates and currency exchange rates. The Company attempts to actively manage
these risks. See the information under  Management s Discussion and Analysis 
on pages 26 and 27 and in Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

  ITEM
8.                 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.  

  See the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and supplementary data on
pages 28 - 55.  

  ITEM 9.                                                       CHANGES
IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE. 

  Not applicable.  

14     

ITEM
9A.              CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

   Disclosure
Controls and Procedures   

  The Company s principal executive officer and its
principal financial officer have concluded that the Company s disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ( the Act )) were effective as of
October 31, 2006, based on the evaluation of these controls and procedures
required by Rule 13a-15(b) or 15d-15(b) of the Act.  

   Management s Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting   

  The Company s management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting. Deere   Company s internal control system was designed
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the preparation and fair presentation
of published financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.  

  All internal control
systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore,
even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable
assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  

  Management assessed the
effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting as of
October 31, 2006, using the criteria set forth in Internal Control   Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on that assessment, management believes that, as of October
31, 2006, the Company s internal control over financial reporting was
effective.  

  The Company s independent
registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on management s
assessment of the Company s internal control over financial reporting.  That report is included herein.  

  ITEM
9B.               OTHER INFORMATION  

  Not
applicable.  

   PART
III   

  ITEM 10.                DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
OF THE REGISTRANT.  

  The information regarding directors in the proxy statement dated
January 16, 2007 (proxy statement), under the captions  Election of Directors, 
 Directors Continuing in Office  and in the third paragraph under the caption  Committees
- - The Audit Review Committee,  is incorporated herein by reference. Information
regarding executive officers is presented in Item 1 of this report under
the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant.   

  The Company has adopted a code of ethics that applies to its principal
executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting
officer.  This code of ethics and the
Company s corporate governance policies are posted on the Company s website at
http://www.JohnDeere.com. The Company intends to satisfy disclosure
requirements regarding amendments to or waivers from its code of ethics by
posting such information on this website. The charters of the Audit Review,
Corporate Governance and Compensation committees of the Company s Board of
Directors are available on the Company s website as well. This information is
also available in print free of charge to any person who requests it.  

15     

ITEM 11.               EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION.  

  The information in the proxy statement under the captions  Compensation
of Executive Officers  and  Compensation of Directors  is incorporated herein
by reference.  

  ITEM 12.                                                 SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS. 

  (a)                                       Securities authorized for issuance under equity
compensation plans.   

  Equity compensation plan information in the proxy statement, under the
caption  Equity Compensation Plan Information,  is incorporated herein by
reference.  

  (b)                                      Security ownership of certain beneficial owners.   

  The information on the security
ownership of certain beneficial owners in the proxy statement under the caption
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  is
incorporated herein by reference.  

  (c)                                       Security ownership of management.   

  The information on shares of
common stock of the Company beneficially owned by, and under option to (i) each
director, (ii) certain named executive officers and (iii) the directors and
officers as a group, contained in the proxy statement under the captions  Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,   Compensation of
Executive Officers-Summary Compensation Table  and  Compensation of Executive Officers-Aggregated
Option/SAR Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Option/SAR Values 
is incorporated herein by reference.  

  (d)            Change
in control.   

  None.  

  ITEM 13.                                                 CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS. 

  None.  

  ITEM
14.               PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT
FEES AND SERVICES  

  The information in the proxy statement under the caption  Fees Paid to
the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  is incorporated herein by
reference.  

  ITEM 15.                                                  EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

16     

Page   

Statement of Changes in Consolidated Stockholders 
  Equity for the years ended October 31, 2004, 
  2005 and 2006   

31  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

32  

(2)  

Schedule
  to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Schedule II
  - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended October 31,
  2006, 2005 and 2004   

61  

(3)  

Exhibits   

See the
   Index to Exhibits  on pages 62 - 64 of this report.   

Certain instruments relating
  to long-term borrowings, constituting less than 10 percent of
  registrant s total assets, are not filed as exhibits herewith pursuant to
  Item 601(b)4(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K. Registrant agrees to file
  copies of such instruments upon request of the Commission.  

Financial Statement
  Schedules Omitted   

The following schedules for
  the Company and consolidated subsidiaries are omitted because of the absence
  of the conditions under which they are required: I, III, IV and V.  

17  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS   

   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE
YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 2006, 2005 AND 2004   

   OVERVIEW   

   Organization   

  The company s Equipment
Operations generate revenues and cash primarily from the sale of equipment to
John Deere dealers and distributors. The Equipment Operations manufacture and
distribute a full line of agricultural equipment; a variety of commercial and
consumer equipment; and a broad range of construction and forestry equipment.
The company s continuing Financial Services primarily provide credit services,
which mainly finance sales and leases of equipment by John Deere dealers and
trade receivables purchased from the Equipment Operations. In addition,
Financial Services offer certain crop risk mitigation products and invest in
wind energy generation. The health care operations, included in Financial
Services, were classified as discontinued operations due to their sale (see
Note 2). These operations provided managed health care services for the company
and certain outside customers. The information in the following discussion is
presented in a format that includes information grouped as the Equipment
Operations, Financial Services and Consolidated. The company also views its
operations as consisting of two geographic areas, the U.S. and Canada, and
outside the U.S. and Canada.  

   Trends and Economic Conditions   

  The company s businesses
are currently affected by the following key trends and economic conditions.
Worldwide farm economic conditions remain promising as demand for crops is
benefiting from a global population that is gaining in both size and affluence,
and a sharp rise in the use of renewable fuels. However, fiscal 2007 company
sales in the U.S. and Canada are expected to have a slow start as a result of
the level of used equipment inventories and customer uncertainty regarding the
direction of U.S. farm legislation. Industry retail sales of agricultural
equipment in the U.S. and Canada in 2007 are expected to be approximately flat
for the year, while sales in Western Europe are forecast to be flat to down
slightly. In South America and Australia, the outlook for industry retail sales
for 2007 is expected to be down about 10 percent and nearly 25 percent,
respectively. The company s agricultural equipment net sales were down 3
percent for 2006 and are forecast to be up approximately 4 percent in 2007. The
company s commercial and consumer equipment net sales were up 8 percent in
2006. These sales are forecast to be up about 4 percent in 2007, reflecting the
impact of higher sales from the landscapes operations and the introduction of
new products. Markets for construction and forestry equipment are expected to
see a slowdown in 2007. The company s construction and forestry net sales
increased 10 percent in 2006 and are forecast to decrease about 5 percent in
2007. Net income for the company s credit operations in 2007 is expected to
improve to approximately $345 million due to growth in the credit portfolio.  

  Items of concern
include the availability and price of raw materials, including steel and tires,
which have an impact on the results of the company s equipment operations. To
date, company factories have been able to secure adequate supplies of such
materials, though prices have risen. In addition, producing engines that continue
to meet high performance standards, yet also comply with increasingly stringent
emissions regulations is one of the company s major priorities. In this regard,
the company is making and intends to continue to make the financial and
technical investment needed to produce engines in conformance with global
emissions rules for off-road diesel engines. Changes in Brazilian government
programs that may result from difficult farm income conditions in Brazil are a
concern, as is uncertainty over the direction of U.S. farm legislation.
Collapse of the Doha round of World Trade Organization talks adds uncertainty
about the direction of global trade and potential effects on the company s
customers.  

  The strong results
for the year provide evidence of the company s success in building a
fundamentally more agile and profitable business, while introducing advanced
new products and services to a growing global customer base. In addition to
providing record earnings in 2006, the company also funded an aggressive global
growth plan, returned $1.6 billion to investors through share repurchases and
dividends, and achieved a further reduction in trade receivables and
inventories.  

   2006 COMPARED WITH 2005   

   CONSOLIDATED RESULTS   

  Worldwide net income in
2006 was $1,694 million, or $7.18 per share diluted ($7.26 basic), compared
with $1,447 million, or $5.87 per share diluted ($5.95 basic), in 2005. Income
from continuing operations, which excludes the company s discontinued health
care business (see Note 2), was $1,453 million, or $6.16 per share diluted
($6.23 basic) in 2006, compared to $1,414 million, or $5.74 per share diluted
($5.81 basic) last year. Net sales and revenues from continuing operations
increased 5 percent to $22,148 million in 2006, compared with $21,191 million
in 2005. Net sales of the Equipment Operations increased 2 percent in 2006 to
$19,884 million from $19,401 million last year. This included a positive effect
for price changes of 3 percent. Equipment net sales in the U.S. and Canada
increased 3 percent in 2006. Net sales outside the U.S. and Canada increased by
2 percent, which included a negative effect of 1 percent for currency
translation.  

  Worldwide
Equipment Operations had an operating profit of $1,905 million in 2006,
compared with $1,842 million in 2005. Higher operating profit was primarily due
to improved price realization and lower retirement benefit costs. Partially
offsetting these factors were increased raw material costs, higher selling and
administrative expenses, the impact of lower shipping volumes and increased
spending for research and development.  

  The Equipment
Operations  net income was $1,089 million in 2006, compared with $1,096 million
in 2005. The same operating factors mentioned above along with the expense
related to the repurchase of certain outstanding debt securities and higher
effective tax rates affected these results.  

  Net income of the
company s Financial Services operations in 2006 increased to $584 million,
compared with $345 million in 2005, primarily due to the sale of the health
care operations. Income from the Financial Services continuing  

18     

operations in 2006 was
$344 million, compared with $312 million in 2005. The increase was primarily a
result of growth in the credit portfolio, partially offset by a higher
provision for credit losses. Additional information is presented in the following
discussion of the credit operations.  

  Income from
discontinued operations was $241 million in 2006, or $1.02 per share diluted
($1.03 basic), compared to $33 million, or $.13 per share diluted ($.14 basic),
last year. The increase was primarily due to the previously mentioned sale of
the health care operations.  

  The cost of sales
to net sales ratio for 2006 was 77.3 percent, compared to 78.2 percent last
year. The decrease was primarily due to improved price realization and lower retirement
benefit costs, partially offset by higher raw material costs and lower shipping
volumes.  

  Finance and
interest income, and interest expense increased this year primarily due to
growth in the credit operations portfolio and higher financing rates. Other
income increased this year primarily due to investment income from marketable
securities, insurance premiums for extended warranties, crop insurance
commissions and service income. Research and development costs increased this
year due to a large number of new products. Selling, administrative and general
expenses increased primarily due to growth, share-based compensation expense
and the provision for credit losses. Other operating expenses were higher primarily
as a result of the expense related to the repurchase of outstanding notes (see
Note 3), extended warranty claims, depreciation related to a higher level of
equipment on operating leases, and service expenses.  

  The company has
several defined benefit pension plans and defined benefit health care and life
insurance plans. The company s postretirement benefit costs for these plans in
2006 were $447 million, compared to $538 million in 2005. The long-term
expected return on plan assets, which is reflected in these costs, was an
expected gain of 8.4 percent in 2006 and 8.5 percent in 2005, or $795 million
in 2006, compared to $744 million in 2005. The actual return was a gain of
$1,364 million in 2006, compared to a gain of $1,057 million in 2005. In 2007,
the expected return will be approximately 8.4 percent. The total unrecognized
losses related to the plans at October 31, 2006 and 2005 were $3,693 million
and $3,969 million, respectively. The company expects postretirement benefit
costs in 2007 to be approximately the same as 2006. The company makes any
required contributions to the plan assets under applicable regulations and
voluntary contributions from time to time based on the company s liquidity and
ability to make tax-deductible contributions. Total company contributions to
the plans were $866 million in 2006 and $859 million in 2005, which include
direct benefit payments for unfunded plans. These contributions also included
voluntary contributions to the U.S. plan assets of $739 million in 2006 and $556
million in 2005. Total company contributions in 2007 are expected to be
approximately $443 million, including voluntary contributions to U.S. plan
assets of approximately $340 million. See the following discussion of  Critical
Accounting Policies  for more information about postretirement benefit
obligations.  

   BUSINESS SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC
AREA RESULTS   

  The following discussion
relates to operating results by reportable segment and geographic area.
Operating profit is income before external interest expense, certain foreign
exchange gains or losses, income taxes and corporate expenses. However,
operating profit of the credit segment includes the effect of interest expense
and foreign exchange gains or losses.  

   Worldwide Agricultural Equipment
Operations   

  The agricultural
equipment segment had an operating profit of $882 million in 2006, compared
with $970 million in 2005. Net sales decreased 3 percent this year due to lower
shipments, partially offset by improved price realization. The decrease in
operating profit was primarily due to the impact of lower shipments and
production volumes, as well as higher selling and administrative expenses and
research and development costs. Partially offsetting these factors were
improved price realization and lower retirement benefit costs.  

   Worldwide Commercial and Consumer
Equipment Operations   

  The commercial and
consumer equipment segment had an operating profit of $221 million in 2006,
compared with $183 million in 2005. Net sales increased 8 percent for the year,
primarily due to higher sales in the landscapes operations. The improved
operating profit was primarily due to the improved profitability of the
landscapes operations and lower retirement benefit costs.  

   Worldwide Construction and
Forestry Operations   

  The construction and
forestry segment had an operating profit of $802 million in 2006, compared with
$689 million in 2005. Net sales increased 10 percent for the year reflecting
strong activity at the retail level. The operating profit improvement was
primarily due to improved price realization, margin on increased shipments and
efficiencies from stronger production volumes. These factors were partially
offset by higher material costs, expenses to close a facility in Canada (see
Note 3) and higher research and development costs.  

   Worldwide Credit Operations   

  The operating profit of
the credit operations was $520 million in 2006, compared with $491 million in
2005. The increase in operating profit was primarily due to growth in the
credit portfolio, partially offset by a higher provision for credit losses and
lower financing spreads. Total revenues of the credit operations, including
intercompany revenues, increased 24 percent in 2006, primarily reflecting the
larger portfolio and higher average finance rates. The average balance of receivables
and leases financed was 15 percent higher in 2006, compared with 2005. An
increase in average borrowings and higher interest rates in 2006 resulted in a
44 percent increase in interest expense, compared with 2005. The larger average
portfolio financed on the balance sheet and the higher average borrowings were
primarily due to an increase in securitizations of retail notes accounted for
as secured borrowings rather than sales of receivables. The credit operations 
ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 1.61 to 1 in 2006, compared to 1.86 to 1
in 2005.  

19     

Equipment Operations in U.S. and
Canada   

  The equipment operations
in the U.S. and Canada had an operating profit of $1,445 million in 2006,
compared with $1,298 million in 2005. The increase was primarily due to improved
price realization and lower retirement benefit costs. Partially offsetting
these factors were higher raw material costs, the impact of lower shipments and
production volumes, increased selling and administrative expenses, expenses to
close a facility in Canada and higher research and development costs. Sales
increased due to improved price realization, strong retail demand in
construction and forestry equipment, and increased sales from commercial and
consumer equipment due to the landscapes operations. Net sales increased 3
percent in 2006 while the physical volume decreased 2 percent, compared with
2005.  

   Equipment Operations outside U.S.
and Canada   

  The equipment operations
outside the U.S. and Canada had an operating profit of $460 million in 2006,
compared with $544 million in 2005. The decrease was primarily due to the
effects of lower shipments and production volumes in Brazil due to difficult
economic conditions related to farming, lower shipments in Australia from the effects
of a drought, increases in selling and administrative expenses and higher
research and development costs, partially offset by improved price realization.
Total sales increased from improvements in price realization and higher volume,
partially offset by the effect of currency translation. Net sales and physical
volume increased 2 percent in 2006, compared with 2005.  

   MARKET CONDITIONS AND OUTLOOK   

  The company s equipment
sales are projected to be roughly flat for the full year and to increase
approximately 5 percent for the first quarter of 2007, compared to the same
periods in 2006. Consistent with ongoing asset management initiatives,
production levels are expected to be down about 4 percent for both the year and
first quarter of 2007. Construction and forestry production in the U.S. and
Canada is expected to be down about 16 percent in the first quarter. Based on
the above, net income is forecast to be around $1.325 billion for the year and
in a range of $150 million to $175 million for the first quarter.   

   Agricultural Equipment.  
Worldwide farm economic conditions remain quite promising. Demand for crops is
benefiting from a global population that is gaining in both size and affluence,
and from a sharp rise in the use of renewable fuels in the U.S. and other parts
of the world. Prices for key farm commodities have surged recently and
worldwide carryover stocks for wheat and corn are at 30-year lows in relation
to consumption. Nevertheless, fiscal 2007 sales in the U.S. and Canada are
expected to get off to a slow start as a result of higher than desired used
equipment inventories and customer uncertainty regarding the direction of U.S.
farm legislation. In addition, farmers  concerns over the sustainability of the
recent commodity price rally, and with respect to input costs, are expected to
weigh on 2007 sales. Based on these factors, the company projects that industry
retail sales in the U.S. and Canada will be approximately flat for the year. 

  In Western Europe,
industry retail sales are forecast to be flat to down slightly for the year due
to the effect of a higher value-added tax in Germany and further farm
consolidation. Following the sharp downturn of the last two years, industry
sales in South America are expected to be down about 10 percent for 2007. The
forecast reduction is primarily related to uncertainty over government
sponsored financing programs in Brazil. Sales in Australia are expected to be
down by nearly 25 percent for the year, due in large part to the effect of
serious drought on the nation s wheat crop.  

  Based on these
factors and market conditions, worldwide sales of the company s agricultural
equipment are forecast to increase by about 4 percent for fiscal year 2007.
First quarter sales are expected to rise about 10 percent, being driven by new
products in Europe and by a late calendar year 2006 sales pickup in Germany,
expected in advance of the value-added tax hike on January 1. Farm machinery
production in the U.S. and Canada is expected to be down approximately 8
percent for the first quarter in comparison with the same period a year ago.   

   Commercial and Consumer
Equipment.   The company s commercial and consumer equipment
sales are forecast to be up about 4 percent for the year. Growth in the
landscapes operations and the successful introduction of new products are
expected to more than offset the impact of a softer market for residential
housing. 

   Construction and Forestry.  
Markets for construction and forestry equipment are expected to see a slowdown
in 2007. While nonresidential spending is forecast for further improvement,
residential housing construction is expected to be lower. In this environment,
the company s worldwide sales of construction and forestry equipment are
forecast to decrease by about 5 percent for fiscal 2007. 

   Credit.   Fiscal
year 2007 net income for the company s credit operations is forecast to be
approximately $345 million. The expected improvement is being driven by growth
in the credit portfolio, largely offset by higher selling and administrative
expenses in support of the segment s growth initiatives. 

   SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT   

   Safe Harbor Statement under the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:   Statements
under  Overview,   Market Conditions and Outlook  and other statements herein
that relate to future operating periods are subject to important risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Some of
these risks and uncertainties could affect particular lines of business, while
others could affect all of the company s businesses. 

  Forward looking
statements involve certain factors that are subject to change, including for
the company s agricultural equipment segment the many interrelated factors that
affect farmers  confidence. These factors include worldwide demand for agricultural
products, world grain stocks, weather and soil conditions, harvest yields,
prices for commodities and livestock, crop production expenses (most notably
fuel and fertilizer costs), availability of transport for crops, the growth of
non-food uses for some crops (including ethanol and biodiesel production), real
estate values, available acreage for farming, the land ownership policies of
various governments, changes in government farm  

20     

programs (including those
that may result from the difficult farm income conditions in Brazil),
international reaction to such programs, global trade agreements, animal
diseases and their effects on poultry and beef consumption and prices
(including bovine spongiform encephalopathy, commonly known as  mad cow 
disease and avian flu), crop pests and diseases (including Asian rust), and the
level of farm product exports (including concerns about genetically modified
organisms). The success of the fall harvest and the prices realized by farmers
for their crops especially affect retail sales of agricultural equipment in the
winter.  

  Factors affecting
the outlook for the company s commercial and consumer equipment segment include
weather conditions, general economic conditions in these markets, consumer confidence,
consumer borrowing patterns, consumer purchasing preferences, housing starts,
and spending by municipalities and golf courses.  

  The number of
housing starts, interest rates and consumer spending patterns are especially
important to sales of the company s construction equipment. The levels of
public and non-residential construction also impact the results of the
company s construction and forestry segment. Prices for pulp, lumber and
structural panels are important to sales of forestry equipment.  

  All of the
company s businesses and its reported results are affected by general economic
conditions in and the political and social stability of the global markets in
which the company operates; production, design and technological difficulties, including
capacity and supply constraints and prices, including for supply commodities
such as steel and rubber; the availability and prices of strategically sourced
materials, components and whole goods; the success of new product initiatives
and customer acceptance of new products; oil and energy prices and supplies;
inflation and deflation rates, interest rate levels and foreign currency
exchange rates; the availability and cost of freight; trade, monetary and
fiscal policies of various countries, wars and other international conflicts and
the threat thereof; actions by the U.S. Federal Reserve Board and other central
banks; actions by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission; actions by
environmental regulatory agencies, including those related to engine emissions
and the risk of global warming; actions by other regulatory bodies; actions by
rating agencies; capital market disruptions; customer borrowing and repayment
practices, and the number of customer loan delinquencies and defaults; actions
of competitors in the various industries in which the company competes,
particularly price discounting; dealer practices especially as to levels of new
and used field inventories; labor relations; changes to accounting standards;
the effects of terrorism and the response thereto; and legislation affecting
the sectors in which the company operates. Company results are also affected by
changes in the level of employee retirement benefits, changes in market values
of investment assets and the level of interest rates, which impact retirement
benefit costs, and significant changes in health care costs. Other factors that
could affect results are changes in company declared dividends, acquisitions
and divestitures of businesses, common stock issuances and repurchases, and the
issuance and retirement of company debt.  

  The company s
outlook is based upon assumptions relating to the factors described above,
which are sometimes based upon estimates and data prepared by government
agencies. Such estimates and data are often revised. The company, except as
required by law, undertakes no obligation to update or revise its outlook,
whether as a result of new developments or otherwise. Further information
concerning the company and its businesses, including factors that potentially
could materially affect the company s financial results, is included in other
filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  

   2005 COMPARED WITH 2004   

   CONSOLIDATED RESULTS   

  Worldwide net income in
2005 was $1,447 million, or $5.87 per share diluted ($5.95 basic), compared
with $1,406 million, or $5.56 per share diluted ($5.69 basic), in 2004. Income
from continuing operations in 2005 was $1,414 million, or $5.74 per share
diluted ($5.81 basic), compared with $1,398 million, or $5.53 per share diluted
($5.66 basic), in 2004. Net sales and revenues from continuing operations (see
Note 2) increased 10 percent to $21,191 million in 2005, compared with $19,204
million in 2004. Net sales of the Equipment Operations increased 10 percent in
2005 to $19,401 million from $17,673 million in 2004. Net sales in the U.S. and
Canada rose 10 percent in 2005. Outside the U.S. and Canada, net sales
increased by 10 percent, which included a positive effect of 4 percent for
currency translation.  

  Worldwide
Equipment Operations had an operating profit of $1,842 million in 2005,
compared with $1,905 million in 2004. Operating profit decreased primarily due
to higher selling and administrative expenses, increased manufacturing overhead
costs related to production system improvements, and higher research and development
costs. These factors were partially offset by the margin on higher shipments
and lower retirement benefit costs. Improved price realization offset higher
raw material costs.  

  The Equipment
Operations  net income was $1,096 million in 2005, compared with $1,097 million
in 2004. The same operating factors mentioned above affected these results.
However, the decrease in operating profit was substantially offset by increased
interest and investment income, and a lower effective tax rate.  

  Net income of the
company s continuing Financial Services operations in 2005 was $312 million,
compared with $302 million in 2004. The increase was primarily due to growth in
the credit operations portfolio and a lower credit loss provision. Additional
information is presented in the following discussion of the credit operations.  

  The cost of sales
to net sales ratio for 2005 was 78.2 percent, compared to 76.9 percent in 2004.
The increase was primarily due to higher raw material costs and increased manufacturing
overhead costs, partially offset by improved price realization and lower
retirement benefit costs.  

  Finance and
interest income increased in 2005 primarily due to growth in the credit
operations portfolio and higher financing rates. Other income increased in 2005
primarily due to an increase in service income, increased investment income  

21     

from marketable
securities due to investments made by the Equipment Operations and other
miscellaneous gains, partially offset by lower gains on retail note sales and a
gain on the sale of an equipment rental company in 2004. Research and development
costs increased in 2005 due to a higher level of new product development and
exchange rate fluctuations. Selling, administrative and general expenses
increased primarily due to increased marketing expenses, acquisitions of
businesses and exchange rate fluctuations. Interest expense increased due to
higher average borrowings and borrowing rates. Other operating expenses were
higher primarily as a result of an increase in service expenses.  

  The company has
several defined benefit pension plans and defined benefit health care and life
insurance plans. The company s postretirement benefit costs for these plans in
2005 were $538 million, compared to $596 million in 2004. The long-term
expected return on plan assets, which is reflected in these costs, was an
expected gain of 8.5 percent in both years, or $744 million in 2005, compared
to $671 million in 2004. The actual return was a gain of $1,057 million in
2005, compared to a gain of $654 million in 2004. The total unrecognized losses
related to the plans at October 31, 2005 and 2004 were $3,969 million and
$5,149 million, respectively. Total company contributions to the plans were
$859 million in 2005 and $1,852 million in 2004, which include direct benefit
payments for unfunded plans. These contributions also included voluntary
contributions to the U.S. plan assets of $556 million in 2005 and $1,551
million in 2004. See the following discussion of  Critical Accounting Policies 
for postretirement benefit obligations.  

   BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS   

   Worldwide Agricultural Equipment
Operations   

  The agricultural
equipment segment had an operating profit of $970 million in 2005, compared
with $1,072 million in 2004. Net sales increased 9 percent in 2005 due to
improved price realization, higher shipments and the translation effect of
currency exchange rates. The decrease in operating profit was primarily a
result of increases in manufacturing overhead costs, research and development
costs, and selling and administrative expenses. Partially offsetting these
factors were the margin on higher shipments and lower retirement benefit costs.
Improved price realization offset the increase in raw material costs.  

   Worldwide Commercial and Consumer
Equipment Operations   

  The commercial and
consumer equipment segment had an operating profit of $183 million in 2005,
compared with $246 million in 2004. Net sales decreased 4 percent in 2005 reflecting
the impact of unfavorable weather conditions on the sale of consumer riding equipment
during the critical selling season. The lower operating profit was primarily
due to lower shipments and production volumes in response to a weaker retail
environment. Improved price realization more than offset an increase in raw
material costs.  

   Worldwide Construction and
Forestry Operations   

  The construction and
forestry segment had an operating profit of $689 million in 2005, compared with
$587 million in 2004. Net sales increased 24 percent in 2005 reflecting strong
activity at the retail level. The operating profit improvement was primarily due
to higher sales and efficiencies related to stronger production volumes.
Improved price realization offset the impact of higher raw material costs. The
results in 2004 included a $30 million pretax gain from the sale of an
equipment rental company.  

   Worldwide Credit Operations   

  The operating profit of
the credit operations was $491 million in 2005, compared with $466 million in
2004. The increase in operating profit was primarily due to growth in the
portfolio, as well as a lower credit loss provision, partially offset by lower
financing spreads and lower gains on retail note sales. Total revenues of the
credit operations increased 13 percent in 2005, primarily reflecting the larger
portfolio and higher average finance rates. The average balance of receivables
and leases financed was 19 percent higher in 2005, compared with 2004. An
increase in average borrowings and higher interest rates in 2005 resulted in a
44 percent increase in interest expense, compared with 2004. The credit
operations  ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 1.86 to 1 in 2005, compared
to 2.12 to 1 in 2004.  

   CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY   

  The discussion of capital
resources and liquidity has been organized to review separately, where appropriate,
the company s Equipment Operations, Financial Services operations and the
consolidated totals.  

   EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS   

  The company s equipment
businesses are capital intensive and are subject to seasonal variations in
financing requirements for inventories and certain receivables from dealers.
The Equipment Operations sell most of their trade receivables to the company s
credit operations. As a result, there are relatively small seasonal variations
in the financing requirements of the Equipment Operations. To the extent
necessary, funds provided from operations are supplemented by external
financing sources.  

  Cash provided by
operating activities during 2006 was $1,311 million primarily due to net income
adjusted for non- cash provisions, a decrease in inventories and an increase in
accounts payable and accrued expenses. Partially offsetting these operating
cash flows were a decrease in the retirement benefit accruals and an increase
in trade receivables. The operating cash flows, proceeds from maturities and
sales of marketable securities of $2,902 million, a decrease in cash and cash
equivalents of $647 million, proceeds from the sales of businesses of $440
million and proceeds from the issuance of common stock of $328 million (which
were the result of the exercise of stock options) were used primarily to
purchase marketable securities of $2,447 million, repurchase common stock for
$1,299 million, decrease borrowings by $923 million, fund purchases of property
and equipment of $493 million and pay dividends to stockholders of $348
million.  

  Over the last
three years, operating activities have provided an aggregate of $4,356 million
in cash. In addition, proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable
securities were $3,918 million, proceeds from the issuance of common stock were
$732 million and the proceeds from sales of businesses were $581 million. The
aggregate amount of  

22     

these cash flows was used
mainly to purchase marketable securities of $5,623 million, fund purchases of
property and equipment of $1,306 million, repurchase common stock for $2,411
million, pay dividends to stockholders of $885 million, increase receivables
from Financial Services by $708 million, decrease borrowings by $1,234 million
and acquire businesses for $418 million. Cash and cash equivalents also
decreased $2,811 million over the three-year period.  

  Trade receivables held by
the Equipment Operations increased by $113 million during 2006. The Equipment
Operations sell a significant portion of their trade receivables to the credit
operations (see following consolidated discussion).  

  Inventories decreased by
$178 million in 2006. Most of these inventories are valued on the last-in,
first-out (LIFO) method. The ratios of inventories on a first-in, first-out
(FIFO) basis (see Note 15), which approximates current cost, to fiscal year
cost of sales were 20 percent and 22 percent at October 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.  

  Total interest-bearing
debt of the Equipment Operations was $2,252 million at the end of 2006,
compared with $3,101 million at the end of 2005 and $3,040 million at the end
of 2004. The ratio of total debt to total capital (total interest-bearing debt
and stockholders  equity) at the end of 2006, 2005 and 2004 was 23 percent, 31
percent and 32 percent, respectively.  

  During 2006, the
Equipment Operations paid $783 million to retire long-term borrowings including
$500 million to repurchase long-term borrowings related to a tender offer (see
Note 3).  

  Capital expenditures for
the Equipment Operations in 2007 are estimated to be approximately $570
million.  

   FINANCIAL SERVICES   

  The Financial Services 
credit operations rely on their ability to raise substantial amounts of funds
to finance their receivable and lease portfolios. Their primary sources of
funds for this purpose are a combination of commercial paper, term debt,
securitization of retail notes and equity capital.  

  Cash flows from the
company s Financial Services operating activities were $792 million in 2006.
Cash provided by financing activities totaled $1,691 million in 2006,
representing primarily a $1,752 million increase in external borrowings,
partially offset by the payment of $107 million of dividends to Deere  
Company. The cash provided by operating and financing activities was used
primarily to increase receivables and leases. Cash used by investing activities
totaled $2,591 million in 2006, primarily due to receivable and lease
acquisitions exceeding collections and sales of equipment on operating leases
by $2,338 million. Cash and cash equivalents also decreased $103 million.  

  Over the last three
years, the Financial Services operating activities have provided $2,031 million
in cash. In addition, an increase in borrowings of $5,774 million, the sale of
receivables of $2,606 million and the sale of equipment on operating leases of
$1,148 million have provided cash inflows. These amounts have been used mainly
to fund receivable and lease acquisitions, which exceeded collections by
$10,764 million, and the payment of dividends to Deere   Company of $718
million. Cash and cash equivalents also decreased $164 million over the three-year
period.  

  Receivables and leases
increased by $2,070 million in 2006, compared with 2005. Acquisition volumes of
receivables and leases increased 2 percent in 2006, compared with 2005. The volumes
of wholesale notes, operating leases, financing leases, operating loans and
revolving charge accounts increased approximately 23 percent, 19 percent, 11
percent, 8 percent, and 2 percent, respectively. At October 31, 2006 and 2005,
net receivables and leases administered, which include receivables previously
sold but still administered, were $21,547 million and $20,298 million,
respectively.  

  Trade receivables held by
the credit operations decreased by $136 million in 2006. The Equipment
Operations sell a significant portion of their trade receivables to the credit
operations (see following consolidated discussion).  

  Total external
interest-bearing debt of the credit operations was $17,453 million at the end
of 2006, compared with $15,522 million at the end of 2005 and $11,508 million
at the end of 2004. Included in this debt are secured borrowings of $2,403
million at the end of 2006 and $1,474 million at the end of 2005. Total
external borrowings have increased generally corresponding with the level of the
receivable and lease portfolio, the level of cash and cash equivalents and the
change in payables owed to the Equipment Operations. The credit subsidiaries 
ratio of total interest-bearing debt to total stockholder s equity was 7.1 to 1
at the end of 2006, 7.2 to 1 at the end of 2005 and 6.4 to 1 at the end of
2004.  

  The credit operations
utilize a revolving multi-bank conduit facility to securitize floating rate
retail notes (see Note 12). This facility has the capacity, or  purchase
limit,  of up to $1.75 billion in secured financings or sales outstanding at
any time. This facility has no final maturity date. Instead, upon the credit
operations  request, each conduit may elect to renew its commitment on an
annual basis. If this facility is not renewed, the credit operations would
liquidate the securitizations as the payments on these retail notes are
collected. At October 31, 2006, $1,575 million was outstanding under the
facility of which $1,036 million was recorded on the balance sheet.  

  During 2006, the credit
operations issued $3,140 million and retired $2,738 million of long-term
borrowings, which were primarily medium-term notes.  

  Capital expenditures for
Financial Services in 2007 are estimated to be approximately $606 million,
primarily related to the wind energy entities.  

   CONSOLIDATED   

  Sources of liquidity for
the company include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, funds
from operations, the issuance of commercial paper and term debt, the
securitization of retail notes and committed and uncommitted bank lines of
credit.  

  Because of the multiple
funding sources that have been and continue to be available to the company, the
company expects to have sufficient sources of liquidity to meet its funding
needs. The company s commercial paper outstanding at October 31, 2006 and 2005
was approximately $2.6 billion and $2.2 billion,  

23     

respectively, while the
total cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities position from
continuing operations was $3.5 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively. The
company has for many years accessed diverse funding sources, including short-term
and long-term unsecured global debt capital markets, as well as public and
private securitization markets in the U.S. and Canada.  

    Lines
of Credit.    The company also has access to bank lines of
credit with various banks throughout the world. Some of the lines are available
to both Deere   Company and John Deere Capital Corporation. Worldwide lines
of credit totaled $3,063 million at October 31, 2006, $410 million of which
were unused. For the purpose of computing unused credit lines, commercial paper
and short-term bank borrowings, excluding secured borrowings and the current
portion of long-term borrowings, were considered to constitute utilization.
Included in the total credit lines at October 31, 2006 was a long-term credit
facility agreement of $3 billion, expiring in February 2011. The credit
agreement requires the Equipment Operations to maintain a ratio of total debt
to total capital (total debt and stockholders  equity excluding accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss)) of 65 percent or less at the end of each
fiscal quarter. At October 31, 2006, the Equipment Operations were in
compliance with this requirement. Under this provision, the company s excess
equity capacity and retained earnings balance free of restriction at October
31, 2006 was $6,204 million. Alternatively under this provision, the Equipment
Operations had the capacity to incur additional debt of $11,522 million at
October 31, 2006. 

    Debt
Ratings.    To access public debt capital markets, the
company relies on credit rating agencies to assign short-term and long-term
credit ratings to the company s securities as an indicator of credit quality
for fixed income investors. A security rating is not a recommendation by the
rating agency to buy, sell or hold company securities. A credit rating agency
may change or withdraw company ratings based on its assessment of the company s
current and future ability to meet interest and principal repayment
obligations. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs
and reduced access to debt capital markets. The senior long-term and short-term
debt ratings and outlook currently assigned to unsecured company securities by
the rating agencies engaged by the company are as follows: 

Senior   

Long-Term   

Short-Term   

Outlook   

Moody s
  Investors Service, Inc.  

A3  

Prime-2  

Positive  

Standard   Poor s  

A  

A-1  

Stable  

Marketable
securities held by the continuing operations decreased by $352 million during
2006. The marketable securities that were held by the health care operations in
prior periods have been included in the assets of discontinued operations (see
Note 2).  

  Trade accounts and
notes receivable primarily arise from sales of goods to dealers. Trade
receivables decreased by $80 million in 2006. The ratio of trade accounts and
notes receivable at October 31 to fiscal year net sales was 15 percent in 2006,
compared with 16 percent in 2005. Total worldwide agricultural equipment trade
receivables decreased $127 million, commercial and consumer equipment
receivables increased $10 million and construction and forestry receivables
increased $37 million. The collection period for trade receivables averages
less than 12 months. The percentage of trade receivables outstanding for a
period exceeding 12 months was 3 percent and 2 percent at October 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively.  

  Stockholders 
equity was $7,491 million at October 31, 2006, compared with $6,852 million at
October 31, 2005. The increase of $639 million resulted primarily from net
income of $1,694 million, an increase in capital stock of $130 million and a
change in the cumulative translation adjustment of $80 million, which was
partially offset by an increase in treasury stock of $930 million and dividends
declared of $363 million.  

  The cash flows
from discontinued operations included in the consolidated cash flows were not
material except for the cash inflow from the sale of the health care operations
(net of cash sold) of approximately $440 million included in the proceeds from
sales of businesses in 2006.  

   OFF-BALANCE-SHEET ARRANGEMENTS   

  The company s credit
operations have periodically sold retail notes to special purpose entities
(SPEs) in securitization transactions. The credit operations have used these
SPEs in a manner consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry
to isolate the retail notes for the benefit of securitization investors. The
use of the SPEs has enabled these operations to access the highly liquid and
efficient securitization markets for the sales of these types of financial
assets. The amounts of funding the company chooses to obtain from
securitizations reflect such factors as capital market accessibility, relative
costs of funding sources and assets available for securitization. The company s
total exposure to recourse provisions related to securitized retail notes,
which were sold in prior periods, was $109 million and the total assets held by
the SPEs related to these securitizations were $994 million at October 31,
2006.  

  At October 31,
2006, the company had approximately $140 million of guarantees issued primarily
to banks outside the U.S. related to third-party receivables for the retail
financing of John Deere equipment. The company may recover a portion of any
required payments incurred under these agreements from repossession of the
equipment collateralizing the receivables. At October 31, 2006, the company had
accrued losses of approximately $3 million under these agreements. The maximum
remaining term of the receivables guaranteed at October 31, 2006 was
approximately eight years.  

24     

The company s credit
operations offer crop insurance products through a managing general agency
agreement (Agreement) with an insurance company (Insurance Carrier). The credit
operations have guaranteed certain obligations under the Agreement, including
the obligation to pay the Insurance Carrier for any uncollected premiums. At
October 31, 2006, the maximum exposure for uncollected premiums was
approximately $34 million. Substantially all of the insurance risk under the
Agreement has been mitigated by a syndicate of private reinsurance companies.
In the event of a widespread catastrophic crop failure throughout the U.S. and
the default of all the reinsurance companies on their obligations, the company
would be required to reimburse the Insurance Carrier approximately $432 million
at October 31, 2006. The company believes the likelihood of this event is
extremely remote. At October 31, 2006, the company s accrued probable losses
are approximately $.2 million under this Agreement.  

   AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS   

  Most of the company s
contractual obligations to make payments to third parties are on-balance-sheet
debt obligations and capital lease payments. In addition, the company has
off-balance-sheet obligations for purchases of raw materials, services and
property and equipment along with interest on debt and operating lease
payments. The payment schedule for these contractual obligations at October 31,
2006 in millions of dollars is as follows:  

*                             Principal
payments. 

  * *                   Notes
payable of $ 2,403 million classified as short-term on the balance sheet
related to the securitization of retail notes are included in this table based
on the expected payment schedule (see Note 18 ). 

   CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES   

  The preparation of the
company s consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues
and expenses. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could have a
significant effect on the financial statements. The accounting policies below
are those management believes are the most critical to the preparation of the
company s financial statements and require the most difficult, subjective or
complex judgments. The company s other accounting policies are described in the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

   Sales Incentives   

  At the time a sale to a
dealer is recognized, the company records an estimate of the future sales
incentive costs for allowances and financing programs that will be due when the
dealer sells the equipment to a retail customer. The estimate is based on historical
data, announced incentive programs, field inventory levels and settlement
volumes. The final cost of these programs and the amount of accrual required
for a specific sale is fully determined when the dealer sells the equipment to
the retail customer. This is due to numerous programs available at any
particular time and new programs that may be announced after the company
records the sale. Changes in the mix and types of programs affect these
estimates, which are reviewed quarterly.  

  The sales incentive accruals
at October 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $629 million, $592 million and $540
million, respectively. The increases in 2006 and 2005 were primarily due to the
increases in sales.  

  The estimation of the
sales incentive accrual is impacted by many assumptions. One of the key
assumptions is the historical percentage of sales incentive costs to
settlements from dealers. Over the last five fiscal years, this percent has
varied by approximately plus or minus .5 percent, compared to the average sales
incentive costs to settlements percentage during that period. Holding other
assumptions constant, if this cost experience percentage were to increase or
decrease .5 percent, the sales incentive accrual at October 31, 2006 would
increase or decrease by approximately $25 million.  

   Product Warranties   

  At the time a sale to a
dealer is recognized, the company records the estimated future warranty costs.
The company generally determines its total warranty liability by applying historical
claims rate experience to the estimated amount of equipment that has been sold
and is still under warranty based on dealer inventories and retail sales. The
historical claims rate is primarily determined by a review of five-year claims
costs and consideration of current quality developments. Variances in claims
experience and the type of warranty programs affect these estimates, which are
reviewed quarterly.  

  The product warranty
accruals at October 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $507 million, $535 million and
$458 million, respectively. The increases in 2006 and 2005, compared to 2004,
were primarily due to increases in sales volume. The accrual in 2005 also had a
higher level of special warranty programs.  

  Estimates used to
determine the product warranty accruals are significantly affected by the historical
percentage of warranty claims costs to sales. Over the last five fiscal years,
this loss experience percent has varied by approximately plus or minus .1
percent, compared to the average warranty costs to sales percentage during that
period. Holding other assumptions constant, if this estimated cost experience
percentage were to increase or decrease .1 percent, the warranty accrual at
October 31, 2006 would increase or decrease by approximately $25 million.  

25     

Postretirement Benefit
Obligations   

  Pension obligations and
other postretirement employee benefit (OPEB) obligations are based on various
assumptions used by the company s actuaries in calculating these amounts. These
assumptions include discount rates, health care cost trend rates, expected return
on plan assets, compensation increases, retirement rates, mortality rates and
other factors. Actual results that differ from the assumptions and changes in
assumptions affect future expenses and obligations.  

  The pension net assets
recognized on the balance sheet at October 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $1,945
million, $1,986 million and $1,894 million, respectively. The OPEB liabilities
on these dates were $1,985 million, $2,455 million and $2,623 million,
respectively. The decreases in the OPEB liability on the balance sheet during
2006 and 2005 were primarily related to voluntary company contributions to plan
assets.  

  The effect of
hypothetical changes to selected assumptions on the company s major U. S.
retirement benefit plans would be as follows in millions of dollars:  

*                            Projected
benefit obligation (PBO) for pension plans and accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation (APBO) for OPEB plans. 

  * *                  Pretax
impact on service cost, interest cost and amortization of gains or losses. 

   Allowance for Credit Losses   

  The allowance for credit
losses represents an estimate of the losses expected from the company s
receivable portfolio. The level of the allowance is based on many quantitative
and qualitative factors, including historical loss experience by product
category, portfolio duration, delinquency trends, economic conditions and
credit risk quality. The adequacy of the allowance is assessed quarterly.
Different assumptions or changes in economic conditions would result in changes
to the allowance for credit losses and the provision for credit losses.  

  The total allowance for
credit losses at October 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $217 million, $194 million
and $201 million, respectively. The increase in 2006 was primarily due to
credit conditions in certain foreign operations and growth in the receivable
portfolio.  

  The assumptions used in
evaluating the company s exposure to credit losses involve estimates and
significant judgment. The historical loss experience on the receivable portfolios
represents one of the key assumptions involved in determining the allowance for
credit losses. Over the last five fiscal years, the average loss experience has
fluctuated between 2 basis points and 15 basis points in any given fiscal year
over the applicable prior period. Holding other estimates constant, a 5 basis
point increase or decrease in estimated loss experience on the receivable
portfolios would result in an increase or decrease of approximately $10 million
to the allowance for credit losses at October 31, 2006.  

   Operating Lease Residual Values   

  The carrying value of
equipment on operating leases is affected by the estimated fair values of the
equipment at the end of the lease (residual values). Upon termination of the
lease, the equipment is either purchased by the lessee or sold to a third
party, in which case the company may record a gain or a loss for the difference
between the estimated residual value and the sales price. The residual values
are dependent on current economic conditions and are reviewed quarterly.
Changes in residual value assumptions would affect the amount of depreciation
expense and the amount of investment in equipment on operating leases.  

  The total operating lease
residual values at October 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $917 million, $812
million and $803 million, respectively. The increases in 2006 and 2005 were
primarily due to the higher levels of operating leases.  

  Estimates used in
determining end of lease market values for equipment on operating leases
significantly impact the amount and timing of depreciation expense. If future
market values for this equipment were to decrease 5 percent from the company s
present estimates, the total impact would be to increase the company s annual
depreciation for equipment on operating leases by approximately $15 million.  

   FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT RISK
INFORMATION   

  The company is naturally
exposed to various interest rate and foreign currency risks. As a result, the
company enters into derivative transactions to manage certain of these
exposures that arise in the normal course of business and not for the purpose
of creating speculative positions or trading. The company s credit operations
manage the relationship of the types and amounts of their funding sources to
their receivable and lease portfolio in an effort to diminish risk due to
interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations, while responding to favorable
financing opportunities. Accordingly, from time to time, these operations enter
into interest rate swap agreements to manage their interest rate exposure. The
company also has foreign currency exposures at some of its foreign and domestic
operations related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than
the local currencies. The company has entered into agreements related to the
management of these currency transaction risks. The credit risk under these
interest rate and foreign currency agreements is not considered to be
significant.  

26     

Interest Rate Risk   

  Quarterly, the company
uses a combination of cash flow models to assess the sensitivity of its
financial instruments with interest rate exposure to changes in market interest
rates. The models calculate the effect of adjusting interest rates as follows.
Cash flows for financing receivables are discounted at the current prevailing
rate for each receivable portfolio. Cash flows for marketable securities are
primarily discounted at the treasury yield curve. Cash flows for borrowings are
discounted at the treasury yield curve plus a market credit spread for
similarly rated borrowers. Cash flows for securitized borrowings are discounted
at the industrial composite bond curve for similarly rated borrowers. Cash
flows for interest rate swaps are projected and discounted using forecasted
rates from the swap yield curve at the repricing dates. The net loss in these
financial instruments  fair values which would be caused by increasing the
interest rates by 10 percent from the market rates at October 31, 2006 would
have been approximately $14 million. The net loss from decreasing the interest
rates by 10 percent in 2005 would have been approximately $39 million.  

   Foreign Currency Risk   

  In the Equipment Operations,
it is the company s practice to hedge significant currency exposures. Worldwide
foreign currency exposures are reviewed quarterly. Based on the Equipment
Operations  anticipated and committed foreign currency cash inflows and
outflows for the next twelve months and the foreign currency derivatives at
year end, the company estimates that a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of
the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies through 2007 would decrease the
2007 expected net cash inflows by $32 million. At last year end, a hypothetical
10 percent strengthening of the U.S. dollar under similar assumptions and
calculations indicated a potential $48 million adverse effect on the 2006 net
cash inflows.   

  In the Financial
Services operations, the company s policy is to hedge the foreign currency risk
if the currency of the borrowings does not match the currency of the receivable
portfolio. As a result, a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the value
of the U.S. dollar relative to all other foreign currencies would not have a
material effect on the Financial Services cash flows.  

27  

DEERE   COMPANY  

   STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME     

   For the Years Ended October 31, 2006, 2005 and
2004    

  (In millions of dollars
and shares except per share amounts)  

The notes to consolidated
financial statements are an integral part of this statement.  

28     

DEERE   COMPANY  

   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET     

   As of October 31, 2006 and 2005   

  (In millions of dollars
except per share amounts)  

The notes to consolidated
financial statements are an integral part of this statement.  

29     

DEERE   COMPANY  

   STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED CASH
FLOWS     

   For the Years Ended October 31, 2006, 2005 and
2004    

  (In millions of dollars)  

The notes to consolidated
financial statements are an integral part of this statement.  

30     

DEERE   COMPANY  

   STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN
CONSOLIDATED STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY     

   For the Years Ended October 31, 2004, 2005 and
2006   

  (In millions of dollars)  

The notes to consolidated
financial statements are an integral part of this statement.  

31     

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

   1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
POLICIES   

  The following are
significant accounting policies in addition to those included in other notes to
the consolidated financial statements.   

   Principles of Consolidation   

  The consolidated
financial statements represent the consolidation of all companies in which
Deere   Company has a controlling interest. Deere   Company records its
investment in each unconsolidated affiliated company (generally 20 to 50
percent ownership) at its related equity in the net assets of such affiliate.
Other investments (less than 20 percent ownership) are recorded at cost.
Consolidated retained earnings at October 31, 2006 include undistributed
earnings of the unconsolidated affiliates of $54 million. Dividends from
unconsolidated affiliates were $3 million in 2006, $2 million in 2005 and $22
million in 2004 (see Note 8).  

  Certain special purpose
entities (SPEs) related to the securitization of financing receivables for
secured borrowings, which are variable interest entities (VIEs), are
consolidated since the company is the primary beneficiary for these VIEs.
Certain other SPEs related to the securitization and sale of financing
receivables, which are also VIEs, are not consolidated since the company does
not control these entities, and they either meet the requirements of qualified
special purpose entities, or the company is not the primary beneficiary. In
addition, the specified assets in these unconsolidated VIEs related to
securitizations are not the only source of payment for specified liabilities or
other interests of these VIEs and, therefore, do not require consolidation (see
Note 12).  

   Structure of Operations   

  Certain information in
the notes and related commentary are presented in a format which includes data
grouped as follows:  

    Equipment
Operations      Includes the company s agricultural
equipment, commercial and consumer equipment and construction and forestry
operations with Financial Services reflected on the equity basis except for the
health care operations, which are reported on a discontinued basis (see Note 2). 

    Financial
Services      Includes the company s credit and certain
miscellaneous service operations with the health care operations reported on a
discontinued basis. 

    Consolidated   
  Represents the consolidation of the Equipment Operations and Financial Services
with the health care operations reported on a discontinued basis. References to
 Deere   Company  or  the company  refer to the entire enterprise. 

   Use of Estimates in Financial
Statements   

  The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts and related disclosures. Actual results could
differ from those estimates.  

   Revenue Recognition   

  Sales of equipment and service
parts to dealers are recorded when title and all risk of ownership are
transferred to the independent dealer based on the agreement in effect with the
dealer. In the U.S. and most international locations, this transfer occurs
primarily when goods are shipped to the dealer. In Canada and some other
international locations, certain goods are shipped to dealers on a consignment
basis under which title and risk of ownership are not transferred to the
dealer. Accordingly, in these locations, sales are not recorded until a retail
customer has purchased the goods. In all cases, when a sale is recorded by the
company, no significant uncertainty exists surrounding the purchaser s
obligation to pay. No right of return exists on sales of equipment. Service
parts returns are estimable and accrued at the time a sale is recognized. The
company makes appropriate provisions based on experience for costs such as
doubtful receivables, sales incentives and product warranty.  

  Financing revenue is
recorded over the lives of the related receivables using the interest method.
Deferred costs on the origination of financing receivables are recognized as a
reduction in finance revenue over the expected lives of the receivables using
the interest method. Income from operating leases is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the scheduled lease terms.   

   Sales Incentives   

  At the time a sale to a
dealer is recognized, the company records an estimate of the future sales
incentive costs for allowances and financing programs that will be due when the
dealer sells the equipment to a retail customer. The estimate is based on
historical data, announced incentive programs, field inventory levels and
settlement volumes.  

   Product Warranties   

  At the time a sale to a
dealer is recognized, the company records the estimated future warranty costs.
These costs are usually estimated based on historical warranty claims (see Note
22).   

   Securitization of Receivables    

  Certain financing
receivables are periodically transferred to SPEs in securitization transactions
(see Note 12). For securitizations that qualify as sales of receivables, the
gains or losses from the sales are recognized in the period of sale based on
the relative fair value of the portion sold and the portion allocated to retained
interests. The retained interests are recorded at fair value estimated by
discounting future cash flows. Changes in these fair values are recorded
after-tax in other comprehensive income in unrealized gain or loss on
investments. Other-than-temporary impairments are recorded in net income.   

  For securitizations that
qualify as collateral for secured borrowings, no gains or losses are recognized
at the time of securitization. These receivables remain on the balance sheet
and are classified as  Restricted financing receivables - net.  The company
recognizes finance income over the lives of these receivables using the
interest method.  

32     

Shipping and Handling Costs   

  Shipping and handling
costs related to the sales of the company s equipment are included in cost of
sales.  

   Advertising Costs   

  Advertising costs are
charged to expense as incurred. This expense was $165 million in 2006, $157
million in 2005 and $151 million in 2004.  

   Depreciation and Amortization   

  Property and equipment,
capitalized software and other intangible assets are depreciated over their
estimated useful lives generally using the straight-line method. Equipment on
operating leases is depreciated over the terms of the leases using the
straight-line method. Property and equipment expenditures for new and revised
products, increased capacity and the replacement or major renewal of
significant items are capitalized. Expenditures for maintenance, repairs and
minor renewals are generally charged to expense as incurred.  

   Receivables and Allowances   

  All financing and trade
receivables are reported on the balance sheet at outstanding principal adjusted
for any charge-offs, the allowance for credit losses and doubtful accounts, and
any deferred fees or costs on originated financing receivables. Allowances for
credit losses and doubtful accounts are maintained in amounts considered to be
appropriate in relation to the receivables outstanding based on collection
experience, economic conditions and credit risk quality.  

   Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
and Goodwill   

  The company evaluates the
carrying value of long-lived assets (including property and equipment, goodwill
and other intangible assets) when events and circumstances warrant such a
review. Goodwill is also reviewed for impairment by reporting unit annually. If
the carrying value of the long-lived asset is considered impaired, a loss is
recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair
market value of the asset.   

   Derivative Financial Instruments   

  It is the company s
policy that derivative transactions are executed only to manage exposures
arising in the normal course of business and not for the purpose of creating
speculative positions or trading. The company s credit operations manage the
relationship of the types and amounts of their funding sources to their
receivable and lease portfolio in an effort to diminish risk due to interest
rate and foreign currency fluctuations, while responding to favorable financing
opportunities. The company also has foreign currency exposures at some of its
foreign and domestic operations related to buying, selling and financing in
currencies other than the local currencies.  

  All derivatives
are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet. Each derivative is designated
as either a cash flow hedge or a fair value hedge, or remains undesignated.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and effective as
cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and reclassified to
the income statement when the effects of the item being hedged are recognized
in the income statement. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are
designated and effective as fair value hedges are recognized currently in net
income and offset to the extent the hedge was effective by the fair value
changes in the hedged item. Changes in the fair value of undesignated hedges
are recognized currently in the income statement. All ineffective changes in
derivative fair values are recognized currently in net income.  

  All designated
hedges are formally documented as to the relationship with the hedged item as
well as the risk-management strategy. Both at inception and on an ongoing basis
the hedging instrument is assessed as to its effectiveness, when applicable. If
and when a derivative is determined not to be highly effective as a hedge, or
the underlying hedged transaction is no longer likely to occur, or the
derivative is terminated, the hedge accounting discussed above is discontinued
and any past or future changes in the derivative s fair value that will not be
effective as an offset to the income effects of the item being hedged are
recognized currently in the income statement (see Note 27).   

   Foreign Currency Translation   

  The functional currencies
for most of the company s foreign operations are their respective local
currencies. The assets and liabilities of these operations are translated into
U.S. dollars at the end of the period exchange rates, and the revenues and expenses
are translated at weighted-average rates for the period. The gains or losses
from these translations are included in other comprehensive income, which is
part of stockholders  equity. Gains or losses from transactions denominated in
a currency other than the functional currency of the subsidiary involved and
foreign exchange forward contracts and options are included in net income or
other comprehensive income as appropriate. The total foreign exchange pretax
net gain (loss) for 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $2 million, $(7) million and $(26)
million, respectively.  

   New Accounting Standards Adopted   

  In the first quarter of
2006, the company adopted FASB Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based
Payment, using the modified prospective method of adoption, which does not
require restatement of prior periods. The revised standard eliminated the
intrinsic value method of accounting for share-based employee compensation
under APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, which the
company previously used. The revised standard generally requires the
recognition of the cost of employee services for share-based compensation based
on the grant date fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued. The
effect of adoption of the new standard in 2006 was an additional expense of $75
million pretax, or $47 million after-tax ($.20 per share, basic and diluted).
Also under the new standard, excess income tax benefits related to share-based
compensation expense that must be recognized directly in equity are considered
financing rather than operating cash flow activities. The amount of financing
cash flows for these benefits in 2006 was $86 million.  

33     

In the first
quarter of 2006, the company adopted FASB Statement No. 151, Inventory Costs.
This Statement clarifies that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense,
freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as
current-period charges. It also requires that allocation of fixed production
overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the
production facilities. The adoption of this Statement did not have a material
effect on the company s financial position or net income.  

  At October 31,
2006, the company adopted FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 47, Accounting for
Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. This Interpretation relates to legal
obligations associated with retirement of tangible long-lived assets that
result from the acquisition, construction, or normal operations of the asset.
Under this standard, an accrual is required for these legal asset retirement
obligations in which the timing or method of settlement is conditional on
future events that may or may not be within the control of the entity. The
accrual is recorded as an increase in the cost basis of the related property
and recognized in expense over the useful life of the asset. The adoption of
this Interpretation did not have a material effect on the company s financial
position or net income. The pro forma effects on all years presented were also
not material.  

   New Accounting Standards to be
Adopted   

  In May 2005, the FASB
issued Statement No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. This
Statement requires voluntary changes in accounting principles to be recorded
retrospectively for prior periods presented rather than a cumulative adjustment
in the current period. This treatment would also be required for new accounting
pronouncements if there are no specific transition provisions. The accounting
for changes in estimates in the current period and the accounting for errors as
restatements of prior periods has not changed. In February 2006, the FASB issued
Statement No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments. This
Statement primarily resolves certain issues addressed in the implementation of
FASB Statement No. 133 concerning beneficial interest in securitized financial
assets. In March 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 156, Accounting for
Servicing of Financial Assets. This Statement clarifies the criteria for
recognizing servicing assets and liabilities, requires these items to be
initially measured at fair value and permits subsequent measurements on either
an amortization or fair value basis. The effective date of these Statements is
the beginning of fiscal year 2007. The adoption of these Statements is not
expected to have a material effect on the company s financial position or net
income.  

  In September 2006,
the FASB issued Statement No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. This Statement
defines fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. These
methods will apply to other accounting standards, which use fair value measurements
and may change the application of certain measurements used in current
practice. The effective date is the beginning of fiscal year 2009. The adoption
is not expected to have a material effect on the company s financial position
or net income.  

  In September 2006,
the FASB issued Statement No. 158, Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. This Statement requires retirement
benefit accruals or prepaid benefit costs on the balance sheet to be adjusted
to the difference between the benefit obligations and the plan assets at fair
value. The offset to the adjustment is recorded directly in stockholders 
equity net of tax. The amount recorded in stockholders  equity would represent
the after-tax unrecognized actuarial gains or losses and unamortized prior
service costs, which have been disclosed in the notes to the financial
statements (see Note 5). This Statement also requires all benefit obligations
and plan assets to be measured at fiscal year end. The effective date for the
funded status adjustment is the end of fiscal year 2007 and the year-end
measurement date is fiscal year 2009. Prospective application is required. At
October 31, 2006, the effect of this Statement would have decreased assets by
approximately $400 million, increased liabilities by approximately $1,800
million and decreased stockholders  equity by approximately $2,200 million
after-tax. The company does not expect violations of any credit agreements as a
result of adopting this new standard.  

  In June 2006, the
FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes.
This Interpretation clarifies the recognition for uncertain tax positions
should be based on a more-likely-than-not threshold that the tax position will
be sustained upon audit. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of
benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate
settlement. The effective date is the beginning of fiscal year 2008 with the
cumulative effect reported as an adjustment to beginning retained earnings. The
company is currently reviewing the impact of this new standard and has not
determined the potential effect on the financial statements.  

   Share-Based Compensation   

  In 2005 and prior years,
the company used the intrinsic value method of accounting for its plans in
accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.
No compensation expense for stock options was recognized under this method
since the options  exercise prices were not less than the market prices of the
stock at the dates the options were awarded. The stock-based compensation
expense recognized in earnings relates to restricted stock awards. For
disclosure purposes under FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,
a binomial lattice option pricing model was used in 2005 to calculate the  fair
value  of stock options, replacing the Black-Scholes model that was used in
2004. The company believes the binomial model provides a better estimate of the
option s fair value. Based on these models, the weighted-average fair values of
stock options awarded during 2005 and 2004 were $19.97 and $12.40 per option.
For the pro-forma disclosure information, the compensation cost of the stock
options that vest from one to three years was recognized on a straight-line
basis over the three-year vesting period.  

34     

Pro forma net income and
net income per share, as if the fair value method in FASB Statement No. 123 had
been used for stock-based compensation, and the assumptions used were as
follows with dollars in millions except per share amounts:  

*      Weighted-averages  

   Acquisitions   

  In June 2006, the company
acquired Roberts Irrigation Products, Inc., a manufacturer of high performance
plastic micro and drip irrigation products for the agricultural, nursery and
greenhouse market, headquartered in California. The cost of the acquisition was
$41 million, including a preliminary value of $34 million for goodwill and
other intangibles, which is tax deductible. The approximate preliminary values
assigned to the other major assets and liabilities related to the acquisition
were $4 million of receivables, $4 million of inventory, $5 million of property
and equipment, $1 million of other assets and $7 million of liabilities. The
entity is included in the company s agricultural equipment operations. The
goodwill generated in this acquisition was the result of the future cash flows
and related fair values of the entity acquired exceeding the fair values of its
identifiable assets and liabilities. Certain long-lived assets including other
intangibles are still being evaluated. The results of these operations have
been included in the company s financial statements since the date of the
acquisition. The pro forma results of operations as if the acquisition had
occurred at the beginning of the fiscal year would not differ significantly
from the reported results.  

  Certain adjustments were
also made in 2006 to the estimated fair values of assets recorded for
acquisitions made in 2005 based on final evaluations (see Note 17).  

   2. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS   

  In February 2006, the
company sold its wholly-owned subsidiary, John Deere Health Care, Inc. (health
care operations), to UnitedHealthcare for $512 million and recognized a gain on
the sale of $356 million pretax, or $223 million after-tax ($.94 per share
diluted, $.95 per share basic). These operations and the gain on the sale have
been reflected as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial
statements for all periods presented.  

  The carrying amounts of
the major classes of assets and liabilities aggregated in discontinued
operations on the consolidated balance sheet at October 31 in millions of
dollars follow:  

*         A
portion of the health care claims and reserves of the health care operations
was reclassified to accounts payable and accrued expenses of the continuing
operations for an incurred but not reported reserve related to the company s
continuing health care claims. 

  The revenue from
discontinued operations on the statement of consolidated income in 2006, 2005
and 2004 was $621 million, $740 million and $782 million and the income before
income taxes was $384 million, $49 million and $13 million, respectively. The
fees paid from the continuing operations to the discontinued health care
operations for administering health care claims in 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $7
million, $21 million and $19 million, respectively. The company will continue
to pay fees to UnitedHealthcare to administer health claims. The employee
termination benefit expense related to the discontinued operations in 2006 was
$8 million, with payments of $4 million and a remaining liability at October
31, 2006 of $4 million. This expense was recorded in  Income from Discontinued
Operations.   

   3. SPECIAL ITEMS   

   Restructuring   

  In January 2006, the
company decided to close its forestry manufacturing facility in Woodstock,
Ontario, Canada and consolidate the manufacturing into the company s existing Davenport
and Dubuque, Iowa facilities. This restructuring is intended to reduce costs
and further improve product delivery times. The facility was included in the
construction and forestry segment.  

35     

In 2006, the total
expense recognized in costs of sales related to the closure was $44 million
pretax, which included $21 million for pension and other postretirement
benefits; $10 million for employee termination benefits; $6 million for impairments
and write-downs of property, equipment and inventory; $5 million for relocation
of production and $2 million for other expenses. At October 31, 2006, there
were no remaining significant liabilities or expenses related to the
restructuring. The pretax cash expenditures associated with this closure were
approximately $35 million.  

   Debt repurchase   

  In February 2006, the
company announced a cash tender offer of up to $500 million to repurchase
outstanding notes. An aggregate principal amount of $433 million was
repurchased in 2006 consisting of $144 million of 8.95% Debentures due 2019,
$194 million of 7.85% Debentures due 2010 and $95 million of 8-1/2% Debentures
due 2022. The repurchase of these notes for approximately $500 million resulted
in an expense of $70 million pretax in 2006, which was included in other
operating expenses.  

   4. CASH FLOW INFORMATION   

  For purposes of the
statement of consolidated cash flows, the company considers investments with
purchased maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
Substantially all of the company s short-term borrowings, excluding the current
maturities of long-term borrowings, mature or may require payment within three
months or less.  

  The Equipment Operations
sell most of their trade receivables to Financial Services. These intercompany
cash flows are eliminated in the consolidated cash flows.  

  All cash flows from the
changes in trade accounts and notes receivable (see Note 10) are classified as
operating activities in the Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows as these
receivables arise from the sale of equipment to the company s customers. Cash
flows from financing receivables (see Note 11) that are related to the sale of
equipment to the company s customers are also included in operating activities.
The remaining financing receivables are related to the financing of equipment
sold by independent dealers and are included in investing activities.  

  The company had non-cash
operating and investing activities that were not included in the Statement of
Consolidated Cash Flows for the transfer of inventory to equipment under
operating leases of approximately $290 million, $256 million and $208 million
in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The company also had accounts payable for
purchases of property and equipment of approximately $80 million, $55 million
and $44 million at October 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

  Cash payments for
interest and income taxes consisted of the following in millions of dollars:  

*      Includes interest compensation to Financial Services for
financing trade receivables.  

   5. PENSION AND OTHER
POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS   

  The company has several
defined benefit pension plans covering its U.S. employees and employees in
certain foreign countries. The company also has several defined benefit health
care and life insurance plans for retired employees in the U.S. and Canada. The
company uses an October 31 measurement date for these plans.  

  The worldwide components
of net periodic pension cost and the assumptions related to the cost consisted
of the following in millions of dollars and in percents:  

The worldwide
components of net periodic postretirement benefits cost and the assumptions
related to the cost consisted of the following in millions of dollars and in
percents:  

36     

A worldwide
reconciliation of the funded status of the benefit plans and the assumptions
related to the obligations at October 31 in millions of dollars follow:  

The total
accumulated benefit obligations for all pension plans at October 31, 2006 and
2005 was $8,322 million and $8,037 million, respectively.  

  The accumulated
benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets for pension plans with
accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $805 million and
$111 million, respectively, at October 31, 2006 and $831 million and $160
million, respectively, at October 31, 2005.  

  The projected benefit
obligations and fair value of plan assets for pension plans with projected
benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $927 million and $158
million, respectively, at October 31, 2006 and $947 million and $204 million, respectively,
at October 31, 2005.  

  The benefits
expected to be paid from the benefit plans, which reflect expected future years
of service, and the Medicare subsidy expected to be received are as follows in
millions of dollars:  

*  Medicare Part D subsidy.  

  The company
expects to contribute approximately $171 million to its pension plans and
approximately $272 million to its health care and life insurance plans in 2007,
which include direct benefit payments on unfunded plans. These expected
contributions also include voluntary contributions to the U.S. pension plans of
approximately $115 million and the health care plans of approximately $225
million during 2007.  

  The annual rates of increase
in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits (the health care cost
trend rates) used to determine benefit obligations at October 31, 2006 were
based on the trends for both pre - 65 and post - 65 age groups due to the
effects of Medicare on the post - 65 group. This weighted-average composite
trend rate for both groups was assumed to be 8.1 percent for 2007, 7.1 percent
for 2008, 6.1 percent for 2009, 5.4 percent for 2010 and 5.0 percent for 2011
and all future years. The obligations at October 31, 2005 assumed 8.0 percent
for 2006 graded down evenly to 5.0 percent for 2009 and all future years. An
increase of one percentage point in the assumed health care cost trend rate
would increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations at October
31, 2006 by $669 million and the aggregate of service and interest cost
component of net periodic postretirement benefits cost for the year by $49
million. A decrease of one percentage point would decrease the obligations by
$593 million and the cost by $43 million.  

  The discount rate
assumptions used to determine the postretirement obligations at October 31,
2006 were based on a hypothetical AA yield curve represented by a series of
annualized individual discount rates. Each bond issue underlying the yield
curve is required to have a rating of Aa or better by Moody s Investor Service,
Inc. or a rating AA or better by Standard   Poor s. Prior to using this
yield curve, the discount rate assumptions for the postretirement expenses in
2005 and 2004 and the obligations at October 31, 2004 were based on investment
yields available on AA rated long-term corporate bonds.  

37     

The following is the
percentage allocation for plan assets at October 31:  

*  Allocation affected by a contribution at year
end temporarily held in debt securities.  

  The primary investment
objective is to maximize the growth of the pension and health care plan assets
to meet the projected obligations to the beneficiaries over a long period of
time, and to do so in a manner that is consistent with the company s earnings
strength and risk tolerance. Asset allocation policy is the most important
decision in managing the assets and it is reviewed regularly. The asset
allocation policy considers the company s financial strength and long-term
asset class risk/ return expectations since the obligations are long-term in nature.
On an on-going basis, the target allocations for pension assets are
approximately 57 percent for equity securities, 19 percent for debt securities,
3 percent for real estate and 21 percent for other and for health care assets
are approximately 56 percent for equity securities, 28 percent for debt
securities, 3 percent for real estate and 13 percent for other. The assets are
well diversified and are managed by professional investment firms as well as by
investment professionals who are company employees.  

  The expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets reflects management s expectations of long-term
average rates of return on funds invested to provide for benefits included in
the projected benefit obligations. The expected return is based on the outlook
for inflation, fixed income returns and equity returns, while also considering
historical returns, asset allocation and investment strategy. Although not a
guarantee of future results, the average annual return of the company s U.S.
pension fund was approximately 10 percent during the past ten years and
approximately 11 percent during the past 20 years.  

  The company has created
certain Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association trusts (VEBAs) for the
funding of postretirement health care benefits. The future expected asset
returns for these VEBAs are lower than the expected return on the other pension
and health care plan assets due to investment in a higher proportion of
short-term liquid securities. These assets are in addition to the other
postretirement health care plan assets that have been funded under Section
401(h) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and maintained in a separate account
in the company s pension plan trust.  

  See Note 25 for defined
contribution plans related to employee investment and savings.  

   6. INCOME TAXES   

  The provision for income
taxes from continuing operations by taxing jurisdiction and by significant
component consisted of the following in millions of dollars:  

Based upon location of
the company s operations, the consolidated income from continuing operations
before income taxes in the U.S. in 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $1,431 million,
$1,226 million and $1,240 million, respectively, and in foreign countries was
$743 million, $881 million and $861 million, respectively. Certain foreign
operations are branches of Deere   Company and are, therefore, subject to
U.S., as well as foreign income tax regulations. The pretax income by location
and the preceding analysis of the income tax provision by taxing jurisdiction
are, therefore, not directly related.  

  A comparison of the
statutory and effective income tax provision from continuing operations and
reasons for related differences in millions of dollars follow:  

In October 2004, the
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) was signed into law. The Act
introduced a special one- time dividends received deduction on the repatriation
of certain foreign earnings to a U.S. taxpayer (repatriation provision),
provided certain criteria are met. The deduction is 85 percent of certain
foreign earnings that are repatriated. During 2005, the company recognized a
tax benefit of approximately $15 million, related to the repatriation of
foreign earnings under the Act.  

  At October 31, 2006,
accumulated earnings in certain subsidiaries outside the U.S. totaled $942
million for which no provision for U.S. income taxes or foreign withholding
taxes has been made, because it is expected that such earnings will be
reinvested overseas indefinitely. Determination of the amount of unrecognized
deferred tax liability on these unremitted earnings is not practical.  

38  

Deferred income taxes
arise because there are certain items that are treated differently for
financial accounting than for income tax reporting purposes. An analysis of the
deferred income tax assets and liabilities at October 31 in millions of dollars
follows:  

Deere   Company files
a consolidated federal income tax return in the U.S., which includes the
wholly-owned Financial Services subsidiaries. These subsidiaries account for
income taxes generally as if they filed separate income tax returns.  

  At October 31, 2006,
certain tax loss and tax credit carryforwards for $132 million were available
with $81 million expiring from 2007 through 2025 and $51 million with an
unlimited expiration date.  

   7. OTHER INCOME AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES   

  The major components of other income and other
operating expenses from continuing operations consisted of the following in
millions of dollars:  

*                Includes
$50 million gain from sales of receivables and $30 million gain from the sale
of a rental equipment company in 2004. 

   8. UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATED COMPANIES   

  Unconsolidated affiliated companies are companies in
which Deere   Company generally owns 20 percent to 50 percent of the
outstanding voting shares. Deere   Company does not control these companies
and accounts for its investments in them on the equity basis. The investments
in these companies primarily consist of Deere-Hitachi Construction Machinery
Corporation (50 percent ownership), Bell Equipment Limited (32 percent ownership)
and A I Products (36 percent ownership). The unconsolidated affiliated
companies primarily manufacture or market equipment. Deere   Company s
share of the income of these companies is reported in the consolidated income
statement under  Equity in Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates.  The investment
in these companies is reported in the consolidated balance sheet under  Investments
in Unconsolidated Affiliates.   

  Combined financial
information of the unconsolidated affiliated companies in millions of dollars
is as follows:  

9. MARKETABLE SECURITIES   

  All marketable securities are classified as
available-for-sale, with unrealized gains and losses shown as a component of stockholders 
equity. Realized gains or losses from the sales of marketable securities are
based on the specific identification method.  

  The amortized cost and fair value of marketable securities
for continuing operations at October 31 in millions of dollars follow:  

39     

The contractual
maturities of debt securities at October 31, 2006 in millions of dollars
follow:  

Actual maturities may
differ from contractual maturities because some securities may be called or
prepaid. Proceeds from the sales of available-for-sale securities from
continuing operations were $2,157 million in 2006, $917 million in 2005 and
none in 2004. Realized gains were $.4 million and realized losses were $4
million in 2006. Realized gains and losses were not material in prior years.
Unrealized gains and losses and the increase (decrease) in net unrealized gains
or losses were not material in these three years. Unrealized losses that have
been continuous for over twelve months were not material. Unrealized losses at
October 31, 2006 and 2005 were primarily the result of an increase in interest
rates and were not recognized in income due to the ability and intent to hold
to maturity. Losses related to impairment write-downs were not material.  

   10. TRADE ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE   

  Trade accounts and notes receivable at October 31
consisted of the following in millions of dollars:  

At October 31, 2006 and
2005, dealer notes included in the previous table were $398 million in both
years, and the allowance for doubtful trade receivables was $62 million and $54
million, respectively.  

  The Equipment Operations
sell a significant portion of newly originated trade receivables to the credit
operations and provide compensation to the credit operations at market rates of
interest for these receivables.  

  Trade accounts and notes
receivable primarily arise from sales of goods to dealers. Under the terms of
the sales to dealers, interest is charged to dealers on outstanding balances,
from the earlier of the date when goods are sold to retail customers by the
dealer or the expiration of certain interest-free periods granted at the time
of the sale to the dealer, until payment is received by the company. Dealers
cannot cancel purchases after the equipment is shipped and are responsible for
payment even if the equipment is not sold to retail customers. The
interest-free periods are determined based on the type of equipment sold and
the time of year of the sale. These periods range from one to twelve months for
most equipment. Interest-free periods may not be extended. Interest charged may
not be forgiven and interest rates, which exceed the prime rate, are set based on
market factors. The company evaluates and assesses dealers on an ongoing basis
as to their credit worthiness and generally retains a security interest in the
goods associated with these trade receivables. The company is obligated to
repurchase goods sold to a dealer upon cancellation or termination of the
dealer s contract for such causes as change in ownership, closeout of the
business or default. The company may also in certain circumstances repurchase
goods sold to a dealer in order to satisfy a request for goods from another
dealer.  

  Trade accounts and notes
receivable have significant concentrations of credit risk in the agricultural,
commercial and consumer, and construction and forestry sectors as shown in the
previous table. On a geographic basis, there is not a disproportionate
concentration of credit risk in any area.  

   11. FINANCING RECEIVABLES   

  Financing receivables at October 31 consisted of the
following in millions of dollars:  

40     

Financing receivables
have significant concentrations of credit risk in the agricultural, commercial
and consumer, and construction and forestry sectors as shown in the previous
table. On a geographic basis, there is not a disproportionate concentration of
credit risk in any area. The company retains as collateral a security interest
in the equipment associated with retail notes, wholesale notes and financing
leases.  

  Financing receivables at
October 31 related to the company s sales of equipment (see Note 4) that were
included in the table above were unrestricted and consisted of the following in
millions of dollars:  

*  These retail notes generally arise from sales
of equipment by company-owned dealers or through direct sales.  

  Financing receivable
installments, including unearned finance income, at October 31 are scheduled as
follows in millions of dollars:  

The maximum terms for
retail notes are generally seven years for agricultural equipment, seven years
for commercial and consumer equipment and five years for construction and
forestry equipment. The maximum term for financing leases is generally five
years, while the average term for wholesale notes is less than twelve months.  

  At October 31, 2006 and
2005, the unpaid balances of receivables previously sold by the credit
operations were $1,197 million and $2,019 million, respectively. The
receivables sold are collateralized by security interests in the related equipment
sold to customers. At October 31, 2006 and 2005, worldwide financing receivables
administered, which include financing receivables previously sold but still
administered, totaled $17,572 million and $16,346 million, respectively.  

  Generally when financing
receivables become approximately 120 days delinquent, accrual of finance income
is suspended and the estimated uncollectible amount is written off to the allowance
for credit losses. Accrual of finance income is resumed when the receivable
becomes contractually current and collection doubts are removed. Investments in
financing receivables on non-accrual status at October 31, 2006 and 2005 were
$44 million and $74 million, respectively.  

  Total financing
receivable amounts 60 days or more past due were $45 million at October 31,
2006, compared with $34 million at October 31, 2005. These past-due amounts
represented .27 percent of the receivables financed at October 31, 2006 and .24
percent at October 31, 2005. The allowance for doubtful financing receivables
represented .94 percent and .97 percent of financing receivables outstanding at
October 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition, at October 31, 2006 and
2005, the company s credit operations had $194 million and $184 million,
respectively, of deposits withheld from dealers and merchants available for
potential credit losses. An analysis of the allowance for doubtful financing
receivables follows in millions of dollars:  

12. SECURITIZATION OF FINANCING RECEIVABLES   

  The company, as a part of its overall funding
strategy, periodically transfers certain financing receivables (retail notes)
into special purpose entities (SPEs) as part of its asset-backed securities
programs (securitizations) involving its retail notes. For securitizations
entered into prior to 2005, the structure of these transactions is such that
the transfer of the retail notes met the criteria of sales in accordance with
FASB Statement No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial
Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities. Beginning in 2005, the transfer of
retail notes into new securitization transactions did not meet the sales
criteria of FASB Statement No. 140 and are, therefore, accounted for as secured
borrowings. SPEs utilized in securitizations of retail notes differ from other
entities included in the company s consolidated statements because the assets
they hold are legally isolated. For bankruptcy analysis purposes, the company
has sold the receivables to the SPEs in a true sale and the SPEs are separate
legal entities. Use of the assets held by the SPEs is restricted by terms of
the documents governing the securitization transaction. Further information
related to the secured borrowings and sales of retail notes is provided below.  

41     

Secured Borrowings   

  Beginning in 2005, the company s new securitizations
of retail notes were accounted for as secured borrowings. Retail notes related
to these programs were transferred to certain SPEs which in turn issued debt to
investors. The resulting secured borrowings are included in short-term
borrowings on the balance sheet as shown in the following table. The
securitized retail notes are recorded as  Restricted financing receivables - net 
on the balance sheet. The total restricted assets on the balance sheet related
to these securitizations include the restricted financing receivables less an
allowance for credit losses, and other assets representing restricted cash as
shown in the following table. In addition to the restricted assets shown in the
table, a reserve fund included in  Other receivables  related to retained
interests for certain securitizations that qualified as sales of receivables is
also available as a credit enhancement for securitizations related to certain
secured borrowings. The amounts of this reserve fund at October 31, 2006 and 2005
were $22 million and $42 million, respectively. The SPEs supporting the secured
borrowings to which the retail notes are transferred are consolidated unless
the company is not the primary beneficiary or the SPE is a qualified special
purpose entity as defined in FASB Statement No. 140.  

  The total components of
consolidated restricted assets related to secured borrowings in securitization
transactions at October 31 were as follows in millions of dollars:  

The components of the
secured borrowings and other liabilities related to these securitizations at
October 31 were as follows in millions of dollars:  

The secured borrowings
related to these restricted securitized retail notes are obligations that are
payable as the retail notes are liquidated. Repayment of the secured borrowings
depends primarily on cash flows generated by the restricted assets and the
reserve fund mentioned above. The consolidated assets (restricted retail notes)
relating to an SPE in which the company is the primary beneficiary and,
therefore, the SPE is consolidated under FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December
2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, were $1,147 million and
$650 million at October 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These restricted
retail notes are included in the restricted financing receivables related to
securitizations shown in the table above. At October 31, 2006, the maximum remaining
term of all restricted receivables was approximately six years.  

   Sales of Receivables   

  Prior to 2005, the company periodically transferred
certain retail notes into SPEs as part of its securitization program in transactions
that were structured such that the transfer of the retail notes met the
criteria of sales in accordance with FASB Statement No. 140. The SPEs issue
asset-backed securities to investors and use the proceeds of the debt issuance
to pay for the retail notes. However, the company retains certain interests in
the SPEs  assets including interest-only strips and, in some cases, reserve
accounts and subordinated certificates. These retained interests are carried at
estimated fair value in  Other receivables  or  Other assets  on the balance
sheet. Gains or losses on sales of the receivables depended in part on the
previous carrying amount of the financial assets involved in the transfer,
allocated between the assets sold and the retained interests based on their
relative fair values at the date of transfer. The company generally estimates
fair values based on the present value of future expected cash flows using
management s key assumptions as discussed below. The company retains the rights
to certain future cash flows and in the U.S. transactions receives annual
servicing fees approximating one percent of the outstanding balance. No
significant balances for servicing assets or liabilities exist because the
benefits received for servicing are just adequate to compensate the servicer
for the costs of providing the servicing. The company s maximum exposure under
recourse provisions related to securitized sold retail notes at October 31,
2006 and 2005 was $109 million and $151 million, respectively. The recourse
provisions contractually specified by the documents governing the
securitization transaction are contingent liabilities that are remote at this
time. Except for this exposure, the investors and securitization trusts have no
recourse to the company for failure of debtors to pay when due. The company s
retained interests are subordinate to investors  interests and their values are
subject to certain key assumptions as shown below. The total assets of the
unconsolidated SPEs related to these securitizations at October 31, 2006 and
2005 were $994 million and $1,923 million, respectively. At October 31, 2006,
the maximum remaining term of these receivables sold was approximately four
years.  

  Pretax gains in millions
of dollars on securitized retail notes sold (none in 2006 and 2005) and key
assumptions used to initially determine the fair value of the retained
interests were as follows:  

2004   

Pretax gains  

$  

48  

Weighted-average
  maturities in months  

20  

Average annual
  prepayment rates  

20  

%  

Average expected
  annual credit losses  

.38  

%  

Discount rates on
  retained interests and subordinate tranches  

13  

%  

42     

Cash flows received from securitization
trusts for retail notes sold in millions of dollars were as follows:  

Components of retained
interests in securitized retail notes sold at October 31 in millions of dollars
follow:  

The total retained
interests, weighted-average life, weighted-average current key economic
assumptions and the sensitivity analysis showing the hypothetical effects on
the retained interests from immediate 10 percent and 20 percent adverse changes
in those assumptions with dollars in millions were as follows:  

These sensitivities are
hypothetical changes in fair value and cannot be extrapolated because the
relationship of the changes in assumption to the changes in fair value may not
be linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption is calculated
without changing any other assumption, whereas changes in one factor may result
in changes in another. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that actual
results would be consistent with the results of these estimates.  

  Principal balances of
owned, securitized retail notes sold and total managed retail notes; past due
amounts; and credit losses (net of recoveries) as of and for the years ended October
31, in millions of dollars follow:  

The amount of actual and
projected future credit losses as a percent of the original balance of
securitized retail notes sold (expected static pool losses) were as follows:  

13. OTHER RECEIVABLES   

  Other receivables for continuing operations at October
31 consisted of the following in millions of dollars:  

The credit operations  receivables related to
securitizations are equal to the present value of payments to be received for
certain retained interests and deposits made with other entities for recourse
provisions under the retail note sales agreements.  

   14. EQUIPMENT ON OPERATING LEASES   

  Operating leases arise primarily from the leasing of
John Deere equipment to retail customers. Initial lease terms generally range
from 36 to 60 months. Net equipment on operating leases totaled $1,494 million
and $1,336 million at October 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The equipment is
depreciated on a straight-line basis over the terms of the leases. The
accumulated depreciation on this equipment was $460 million and $436 million at
October 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The corresponding depreciation expense
was $269 million in 2006, $237 million in 2005 and $239 million in 2004.  

  Future payments to be
received on operating leases totaled $708 million at October 31, 2006 and are
scheduled as follows in millions of dollars: 2007   $300, 2008   $204, 2009  
$125, 2010   $61 and 2011   $18.  

   15. INVENTORIES   

  Most inventories owned by Deere   Company and its
United States equipment subsidiaries are valued at cost, on the  last-in,
first-out  (LIFO) basis. Remaining inventories are generally valued at the
lower of cost, on the  first-in, first-out  (FIFO) basis, or market. The value
of gross inventories on the LIFO basis represented 60 percent and 61 percent of
worldwide gross inventories at FIFO value on October 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. If all inventories had been valued on a FIFO basis,  

43     

estimated inventories by major classification at
October 31 in millions of dollars would have been as follows:  

16. PROPERTY AND DEPRECIATION   

  A summary of property and equipment for continuing
operations at October 31 in millions of dollars follows:  

*  Weighted-averages  

  Leased property under
capital leases amounting to $15 million and $23 million at October 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively, is included in property and equipment.  

  Property and equipment is
stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Total property and equipment
additions in 2006, 2005 and 2004 for continuing operations were $781 million,
$523 million and $351 million and depreciation was $379 million, $354 million
and $339 million, respectively. Financial Services property and equipment
additions included above were $292 million, $46 million and $4 million in 2006,
2005 and 2004 and depreciation was $8 million, $5 million and $5 million,
respectively. The increase in Financial Services additions in 2006 and 2005 was
primarily due to wind turbines related to the wind energy entities.  

  Capitalized software is
stated at cost less accumulated amortization and the estimated useful life is
three years. The amounts of total capitalized software costs, including purchased
and internally developed software, classified as  Other Assets  for continuing
operations at October 31, 2006 and 2005 were $322 million and $302 million,
less accumulated amortization of $258 million and $237 million, respectively.
Amortization of these software costs was $32 million in 2006, $35 million in
2005 and $32 million in 2004.  

  The cost of compliance
with foreseeable environmental requirements has been accrued and did not have a
material effect on the company s financial position or results of operations.  

   17. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS-NET   

  The amounts of goodwill by operating segment were as
follows in millions of dollars:  

In 2006, the goodwill in
the agricultural equipment segment increased by $34 million due to the
acquisition of Roberts Irrigation Products, Inc. The goodwill in this segment
also decreased by approximately $12 million in 2006 due to an adjustment of the
goodwill related to the 2005 acquisition of an additional 48 percent interest
in John Deere Equipment Private Ltd. The adjustment was the result of the
recognition of an intangible asset for customer lists and relationships of $14
million, net of deferred tax effects and other minor adjustments of assets and
liabilities related to the acquisition. The goodwill in the commercial and
consumer equipment segment decreased by approximately $28 million in 2006 due
to an adjustment of the goodwill related to the 2005 acquisition of United
Green Mark, Inc. This was the result of the recognition of an intangible asset
for customer lists and relationships of $38 million, net of deferred tax
effects. The goodwill adjustments were the result of final fair value
evaluations of identifiable net assets related to acquisitions. The remaining
changes in goodwill were primarily due to fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates.  

  The components of other
intangible assets are as follows in millions of dollars:  

*  Weighted-averages  

  Other intangible assets,
excluding the intangible pension asset, are stated at cost less accumulated
amortization. The intangible pension asset is remeasured and adjusted annually.
The amortization of other intangible assets in 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $11
million, $2 million and $2 million, respectively.  

44     

18. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS   

  Short-term borrowings at October 31 consisted of the
following in millions of dollars:  

The notes payable related
to securitizations for Financial Services are secured by restricted financing
receivables (retail notes) on the balance sheet (see Note 12). Although these
notes payable are classified as short-term since payment is required if the
retail notes are liquidated early, the payment schedule for these borrowings of
$2,403 million at October 31, 2006 based on the expected liquidation of the
retail notes in millions of dollars is as follows: 2007 - $897, 2008 - $675,
2009 - $482, 2010 - $286, 2011 - $63.  

  The weighted-average
interest rates on total short-term borrowings, excluding current maturities of
long-term borrowings, at October 31, 2006 and 2005 were 5.1 percent and 3.9
percent, respectively. All of the Financial Services  short-term borrowings
represent obligations of the credit subsidiaries.  

  Lines of credit available
from U.S. and foreign banks were $3,063 million at October 31, 2006. Some of
these credit lines are available to both Deere   Company and John Deere Capital
Corporation (Capital Corporation). At October 31, 2006, $410 million of these
worldwide lines of credit were unused. For the purpose of computing the unused
credit lines, commercial paper and short-term bank borrowings, excluding
secured borrowings and the current portion of long-term borrowings, were
considered to constitute utilization.  

  Included in the above lines
of credit was a long-term credit facility agreement for $3 billion, expiring in
February 2011. The agreement is mutually extendable and the annual facility fee
is not significant. The credit agreement requires the Capital Corporation to
maintain its consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed charges at not less than
1.05 to 1 for each fiscal quarter and the ratio of senior debt, excluding
securitization indebtedness, to capital base (total subordinated debt and
stockholder s equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss))
at not more than 8.5 to 1 at the end of any fiscal quarter. The credit
agreement also requires the Equipment Operations to maintain a ratio of total
debt to total capital (total debt and stockholders  equity excluding accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss)) of 65 percent or less at the end of each
fiscal quarter according to accounting principles generally accepted in the
U.S. in effect at October 31, 2005. Under this provision, the company s excess
equity capacity and retained earnings balance free of restriction at October
31, 2006 was $6,204 million. Alternatively under this provision, the Equipment
Operations had the capacity to incur additional debt of $11,522 million at
October 31, 2006. All of these requirements of the credit agreement have been
met during the periods included in the financial statements.  

  Deere   Company has
an agreement with the Capital Corporation pursuant to which it has agreed to
continue to own at least 51 percent of the voting shares of capital stock of
the Capital Corporation and to maintain the Capital Corporation s consolidated
tangible net worth at not less than $50 million. This agreement also obligates
Deere   Company to make income maintenance payments to the Capital
Corporation such that its consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed charges is
not less than 1.05 to 1 for each fiscal quarter. Deere   Company s
obligations to make payments to the Capital Corporation under the agreement are
independent of whether the Capital Corporation is in default on its
indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities. Further, Deere   Company s
obligations under the agreement are not measured by the amount of the Capital
Corporation s indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities. Deere   Company s
obligations to make payments under this agreement are expressly stated not to
be a guaranty of any specific indebtedness, obligation or liability of the
Capital Corporation and are enforceable only by or in the name of the Capital
Corporation. No payments were required under this agreement during the periods
included in the financial statements.  

   19. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES   

  Accounts payable and accrued expenses at October 31
for continuing operations consisted of the following in millions of dollars:  

*                Primarily
trade receivable valuation accounts which are reclassified as accrued expenses
by the Equipment Operations as a result of their trade receivables being sold
to Financial Services. 

45     

20. LONG-TERM BORROWINGS   

  Long-term borrowings at October 31 consisted of the
following in millions of dollars:  

*                       Includes fair value adjustments related to
interest rate swaps. 

  **                All
interest rates are as of year end. 

  All of the Financial
Services  long-term borrowings represent obligations of the credit subsidiaries.  

  The approximate principal
amounts of the Equipment Operations  long-term borrowings maturing in each of
the next five years in millions of dollars are as follows: 2007   $7, 2008  
$3, 2009   $11, 2010   $312 and 2011   none. The approximate principal amounts
of the credit subsidiaries  long term borrowings maturing in each of the next
five years in millions of dollars are as follows: 2007   $3,072, 2008   $3,393,
2009   $2,206, 2010   $1,038 and 2011   $798.  

   21. LEASES   

  At October 31, 2006, future minimum lease payments
under capital leases amounted to $13 million as follows: 2007   $2, 2008   $1,
2009   $1, 2010   $1, 2011   $1 and later years $7. Total rental expense for
operating leases was $118 million in 2006, $111 million in 2005 and $102
million in 2004.  

  At October 31, 2006, future minimum lease payments
under operating leases amounted to $301 million as follows: 2007   $80, 2008  
$64, 2009   $49, 2010   $30, 2011   $23 and later years $55.  

   22. CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS   

  The company generally determines its total warranty
liability by applying historical claims rate experience to the estimated amount
of equipment that has been sold and is still under warranty based on dealer
inventories and retail sales. The historical claims rate is primarily determined
by a review of five-year claims costs and current quality developments.  

  A reconciliation of the
changes in the warranty liability in millions of dollars follows:  

The company has certain
recourse obligations on financing receivables that it has previously sold. If
the receivables sold are not collected, the company would be required to cover
those losses up to the amount of its recourse obligation. At October 31, 2006,
the maximum amount of exposure to losses under these agreements was $117
million. The estimated credit risk associated with sold receivables totaled $4
million at October 31, 2006. This risk of loss is recognized primarily in the
retained interests recorded on the company s balance sheet (see Note 12). The
company may recover a portion of any required payments incurred under these
agreements from the repossession of the equipment collateralizing the
receivables. At October 31, 2006, the maximum remaining term of the receivables
guaranteed was approximately four years.  

  At October 31, 2006, the
company had approximately $140 million of guarantees issued primarily to banks
outside the U.S. and Canada related to third-party receivables for the retail
financing of John Deere equipment. The company may recover a portion of any
required payments incurred under these agreements from repossession of the
equipment collateralizing the receivables. At October 31, 2006, the company had
accrued losses of approximately $3 million under these agreements. The maximum
remaining term of the receivables guaranteed at October 31, 2006 was
approximately eight years.  

  The credit operations 
subsidiary, John Deere Risk Protection, Inc., offers crop insurance products
through a managing general agency agreement (Agreement) with an insurance
company (Insurance Carrier) rated  Excellent  by A.M. Best Company. As a
managing general agent, John Deere  

46     

Risk Protection, Inc. will receive commissions from
the Insurance Carrier for selling crop insurance to producers. The credit
operations have guaranteed certain obligations under the Agreement, including
the obligation to pay the Insurance Carrier for any uncollected premiums. At
October 31, 2006, the maximum exposure for uncollected premiums was approximately
$34 million. Substantially all of the credit operations  crop insurance risk
under the Agreement has been mitigated by a syndicate of private reinsurance
companies. The reinsurance companies are rated  Excellent  or higher by A.M.
Best Company. In the event of a widespread catastrophic crop failure throughout
the U.S. and the default of these highly rated reinsurance companies on their
reinsurance obligations, the credit operations would be required to reimburse
the Insurance Carrier for exposure under the Agreement of approximately $432
million at October 31, 2006. The credit operations believe that the likelihood
of the occurrence of substantially all of the events that give rise to the
exposure under this Agreement is extremely remote and as a result, at October
31, 2006, the credit operations have accrued probable losses of approximately
$.2 million under the Agreement.  

  At October 31, 2006, the
company had commitments of approximately $481 million for the construction and
acquisition of property and equipment. At October 31, 2006, the company also
had pledged or restricted assets of $92 million, outside the U.S., primarily as
collateral for borrowings, and $15 million of restricted other assets in the
U.S. related to the sale of the health care operations.  

  The company also had
other miscellaneous contingent liabilities totaling approximately $35 million
at October 31, 2006, for which it believes the probability for payment is
remote.  

  The company is subject to
various unresolved legal actions which arise in the normal course of its
business, the most prevalent of which relate to product liability (including
asbestos related liability), retail credit, software licensing, patent and trademark
matters. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of
these unresolved legal actions or the range of possible loss, the company
believes these unresolved legal actions will not have a material effect on its
financial statements.  

   23. CAPITAL STOCK   

  Changes in the common stock account in millions were
as follows:  

The number of common
shares the company is authorized to issue is 600 million and the number of
authorized preferred shares, none of which has been issued, is 9 million.  

  A reconciliation of basic
and diluted income per share follows in millions, except per share amounts:  

All stock options
outstanding were included in the computation during 2006, 2005 and 2004, except
9 thousand stock options in 2006 that had an antidilutive effect under the treasury
stock method.  

   24. STOCK OPTION AND RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS   

  In the first quarter of 2006, the company adopted FASB
Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, (see Note 1 for  New
Accounting Standards Adopted  and  Share-Based Compensation  for 2005 and 2004
information).  

  The company issues stock
options and restricted stock awards to key employees under plans approved by
stockholders. Restricted stock is also issued to nonemployee directors for their
services as directors under a plan approved by stockholders. Options are
awarded with the exercise price equal to the market price and become
exercisable in one to three years after grant. Options expire ten years after
the date of grant. Restricted stock awards generally vest after three years.
The company recognizes the compensation cost on these stock options and
restricted stock awards either immediately if the employee is eligible to retire
or on a straight-line basis over the vesting period for the entire award.
According to these plans at October 31, 2006, the company is authorized to
grant an additional 11.2 million shares related to stock options or restricted
stock.  

  In 2006, the fair value
of each option award was estimated on the date of grant using a binomial
lattice option valuation model. Expected volatilities are based on implied
volatilities from traded call options on the company s stock. The expected volatilities
are constructed from the following three components: the starting implied
volatility of short-term call options traded within a few days of the valuation
date; the predicted implied volatility of long-term call options; and the trend
in implied volatilities over the span of the call options  time to maturity. The
company uses historical data to estimate option exercise behavior and employee
termination within the valuation model.  

47  

The expected term of options granted is derived from
the output of the option valuation model and represents the period of time that
options granted are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rates utilized
for periods throughout the contractual life of the options are based on U.S.
Treasury security yields at the time of grant.  

  The assumptions used for
the binomial lattice model to determine the fair value of options granted
during 2006 follow:  

Stock option activity at
October 31, 2006 and changes during 2006 in millions of dollars and shares
except for share price follow:  

*      Weighted-averages  

  The weighted-average
grant-date fair values of options granted during 2006, 2005 and 2004 were
$20.20, $19.97 and $12.40, respectively. The total intrinsic values of options exercised
during 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $236 million, $102 million and $149 million,
respectively. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, cash received from stock option
exercises was $328 million, $154 million and $251 million with tax benefits of
$87 million, $38 million and $55 million, respectively.  

  The company s nonvested
restricted shares at October 31, 2006 and changes during 2006 in millions of
dollars and shares follow:  

*      Weighted-averages  

  During 2006, the total
share-based compensation expense was $91 million with an income tax benefit
recognized in net income of $34 million. 
At October 31, 2006, there was $54 million of total unrecognized
compensation cost from share-based compensation arrangements granted under the
plans, which is related to nonvested shares. 
This compensation is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
period of approximately 1.5 years. The total fair values of stock options and
restricted shares vested during 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $63 million, $55
million and $54 million, respectively.  

  Prior to adoption of the
new standard, the pro-forma disclosure used a straight-line amortization of the
stock option and restricted stock expense over the vesting period according to
the prior standard, FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation, which included employees eligible to retire. Under the new
standard, the awards granted after the adoption must be recognized in expense
over the requisite service period, which is either immediate if the employee is
eligible to retire, or over the vesting period if the employee is not eligible
to retire. The amount of expense for awards granted prior to adoption of the
new standard for employees eligible to retire that continued to be amortized
over the nominal vesting period in 2006 was approximately $19 million pretax,
$12 million after-tax ($.05 per share, basic and diluted).  

  The company currently
uses shares which have been repurchased through its stock repurchase programs
to satisfy share option exercises. At October 31, 2006, the company had 41.0
million shares in treasury stock and 10.3 million shares remaining to be
repurchased under its current publicly announced 26.0 million share repurchase
program.  

   25. EMPLOYEE INVESTMENT AND SAVINGS PLANS   

  The company has defined contribution plans related to
employee investment and savings plans primarily in the U.S. Company
contributions and costs under these plans were $100 million in 2006, $81
million in 2005 and $43 million in 2004.  

   26. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ITEMS   

  Other comprehensive income items under FASB Statement No.
130, Reporting Comprehensive Income, are transactions recorded in stockholders 
equity during the year, excluding net income and transactions with
stockholders. Following are the items included in other comprehensive income
(loss) and the related tax effects in millions of dollars:  

48     

*      Reclassification of realized gains or
losses to net income were not material.  

*      Reclassification of realized gains or
losses to net income were not material.  

   27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS   

  The fair values of financial instruments which do not
approximate the carrying values in the financial statements at October 31 in
millions of dollars follow:  

*      See Note 18.  

   Fair Value Estimates   

  Fair values of the long-term financing receivables
with fixed rates were based on the discounted values of their related cash
flows at current market interest rates. The fair values of the remaining
financing receivables approximated the carrying amounts.  

  Fair values of long-term borrowings
and short-term secured borrowings with fixed rates were based on the discounted
values of their related cash flows at current market interest rates.  Certain long-term borrowings have been
swapped to current variable interest rates. 
The carrying values of these long-term borrowings include adjustments
related to fair value hedges.  

   Derivatives   

  All derivative instruments are recorded at fair values
and classified as either other assets or accounts payable and accrued expenses
on the balance sheet (see Note 1).  

   Interest Rate Swaps   

  The company enters into interest rate swap agreements
primarily to more closely match the fixed or floating interest rates of the
credit operations  borrowings to those of the assets being funded.  

  Certain interest rate
swaps were designated as hedges of future cash flows from commercial paper and
variable interest rate borrowings. The effective portion of the fair value
gains or losses on these cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive
income and subsequently reclassified into interest expense as payments are
accrued and the swaps approach maturity. These amounts offset the effects of
interest rate changes on the related borrowings. The amount of the gain recorded
in other comprehensive income at October 31, 2006 that is expected to be
reclassified to interest expense in the next 12 months if interest rates remain
unchanged is approximately $7 million after-tax. These swaps mature in up to 53
months.  

  Certain interest rate
swaps were designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate, long-term borrowings.
The effective portion of the fair value gains or losses on these swaps were
offset by fair value adjustments in the underlying borrowings.  

  Any ineffective portions
of the gains or losses on all cash flow and fair value interest rate swaps
designated as hedges were recognized currently in interest expense and were not
material. There were no gains or losses reclassified from unrealized in other
comprehensive income to realized in earnings as a result of the discontinuance
of cash flow hedges. There were no components of cash flow or fair value hedges
that were excluded from the assessment of effectiveness.  

  The company has certain
interest rate swap agreements that are not designated as hedges under FASB
Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities, and the fair value gains or losses are recognized currently in earnings.
These instruments relate to swaps that are used to facilitate certain
borrowings.  

   Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts, Swaps and
Options   

  The company has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts,
swaps and options in order to manage the currency exposure of certain
receivables, liabilities, borrowings and expected inventory purchases. For
transactions not designated as hedges under FASB Statement No. 133, the fair
value gains or losses from these foreign currency derivatives are recognized currently
in cost of sales or other operating expenses, generally offsetting the foreign
exchange gains or losses on the exposures being managed.  

49     

The company has
designated certain foreign exchange forward contracts as cash flow hedges of
expected inventory purchases. The effective portion of the fair value gains or
losses on these cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and
subsequently reclassified into cost of sales as the inventory costs are
recognized in cost of sales. These amounts offset the effect of the changes in
foreign exchange rates on the related inventory purchases. The amount of the
loss recorded in other comprehensive income that is expected to be reclassified
to cost of sales in the next 12 months is approximately $2 million after-tax.
These contracts mature in up to 12 months.  

  The company has designated
foreign exchange currency swaps as cash flow hedges of long-term borrowings. The
effective portion of the fair value gains or losses on these swaps is recorded in
other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified into other operating
expenses as payments are accrued and these instruments approach maturity. This
offsets the exchange rate effects on the borrowing being hedged included in
other operating expenses.  

  Any ineffective portions
of the gains or losses on all cash flow and fair value foreign exchange
contracts and swaps designated as hedges were recognized currently in earnings
and were not material. There were no gains or losses reclassified from
unrealized in other comprehensive income to realized in earnings as a result of
the discontinuance of cash flow hedges. There were no components of cash flow
or fair value hedges that were excluded from the assessment of effectiveness.  

   28. SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA DATA FOR THE YEARS
ENDED OCTOBER 31, 2006, 2005 AND 2004   

  The company s operations are organized and reported in
four major business segments described as follows:  

  The agricultural
equipment segment manufactures and distributes a full line of farm equipment
and related service parts   including tractors; combine, cotton and sugarcane
harvesters; tillage, seeding and soil preparation machinery; sprayers; hay and
forage equipment; integrated agricultural management systems technology; and
precision agricultural irrigation equipment.  

  The commercial and
consumer equipment segment manufactures and distributes equipment, products and
service parts for commercial and residential uses   including tractors for
lawn, garden, commercial and utility purposes; mowing equipment, including
walk-behind mowers; golf course equipment; utility vehicles; landscape products
and irrigation equipment; and other outdoor power products.  

  The construction and
forestry segment manufactures, distributes to dealers and sells at retail a
broad range of machines and service parts used in construction, earthmoving,
material handling and timber harvesting   including backhoe loaders; crawler
dozers and loaders; four-wheel-drive loaders; excavators; motor graders;
articulated dump trucks; landscape loaders; skid-steer loaders; and log
skidders, feller bunchers, log loaders, log forwarders, log harvesters and
related attachments.  

  The products and services
produced by the equipment segments are marketed primarily through independent
retail dealer networks and major retail outlets.  

  The credit segment
primarily finances sales and leases by John Deere dealers of new and used
agricultural, commercial and consumer, and construction and forestry equipment.
In addition, it provides wholesale financing to dealers of the foregoing
equipment, provides operating loans, finances retail revolving charge accounts,
offers certain crop risk mitigation products and invests in wind energy
generation.  

  The company s tractors
and implements segment and the harvesting equipment segment have been
aggregated in the agricultural equipment segment described above since they
have similar economic characteristics as well as similar products and services,
production processes, types of customers and methods used for distribution of
their products.  

  Certain operations do not
meet the materiality threshold of FASB Statement No. 131, Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, and have been grouped
together as  Other.  Due to the sale of the health care operations in 2006 (see
Note 2), the health care operations were reclassified from  Other  to
discontinued operations for all years presented. Applicable segment information
as follows has been revised for this reclassification. The remaining  Other 
information consists of certain miscellaneous service operations that do not
meet the materiality threshold.  

  Because of integrated
manufacturing operations and common administrative and marketing support, a
substantial number of allocations must be made to determine operating segment
and geographic area data. Intersegment sales and revenues represent sales of
components and finance charges which are generally based on market prices.  

50     

Information
relating to operations by operating segment in millions of dollars
follows.  In addition to the following
unaffiliated sales and revenues by unaffiliated sales and revenues by segment,
intersegment sales and revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as follows: agricultural
equipment net sales of $138 million, $105 million and $88 million, construction
and forestry net sales of $10 million, $13 million and $11 million, and credit
revenues of $216 million, $237 million and $216 million, respectively.  

*                    Other revenues are primarily the Equipment
Operations  revenues for finance and interest income, and other income as
disclosed in Note 30, net of certain intercompany eliminations. 

*      Operating profit of the credit business
segment includes the effect of its interest expense and foreign exchange gains
or losses.  

*      Does not include finance rental income for
equipment on operating leases.  

  **   Includes interest income from Equipment Operations for financing
trade receivables.  

*      Includes
interest compensation to credit operations for financing trade receivables.  

*        Includes depreciation for equipment on operating leases. 

*      Corporate
assets are primarily the Equipment Operations  prepaid pension costs, deferred
income tax assets, marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents as disclosed
in Note 30, net of certain intercompany eliminations.  

51     

The company views and has
historically disclosed its operations as consisting of two geographic areas,
the U.S. and Canada, and outside the U.S. and Canada, shown below in millions
of dollars. No individual foreign were material for disclosure purposes.  

*        The percentages indicate the approximate proportion of each amount that
relates to the U.S. only and are based upon a three-year average for 2006, 2005
and 2004. 

29. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
(UNAUDITED)   

  Quarterly information with
respect to net sales and revenues and earnings is shown in the following
schedule. Such information is shown in millions of dollars except for per share
amounts.  

* See Note 2  

Net income per share for each
quarter must be computed independently. As a result, their sum may not equal the
total net income per share for the year.  

  Common stock per share sales
prices from New York Stock Exchange composite transactions quotations follow:   

At October 31, 2006, there
were 28,530 holders of record of the company s $1 par value common stock.  

   Dividend   

  The board of directors, at
its meeting on November 29, 2006, increased the quarterly dividend to $.44 per
share, from the previous level of $.39 per share, payable on February 1, 2007
to stockholders of record on December 31, 2006.  

52     

30. SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATING DATA   

   INCOME STATEMENT   

   For the Years Ended October 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004   

  (In
millions of dollars)  

*      Deere   Company with Financial
Services on the equity basis except for the health care operations reported on
a discontinued basis.  

The
supplemental consolidating data is presented for informational purposes. The
 Equipment Operations  reflect the basis of consolidation described in Note 1
to the consolidated financial statements. The consolidated group data in the
 Equipment Operations  income statement reflect the results of the agricultural
equipment, commercial and consumer equipment and construction and forestry
operations. The supplemental  Financial Services  data represent primarily
Deere   Company s credit operations with the health care operations
reported on a discontinued basis. Transactions between the  Equipment
Operations  and  Financial Services  have been eliminated to arrive at the
consolidated financial statements.  

53     

30. SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATING DATA ( continued)   

   BALANCE SHEET   

   As of
October 31, 2006 and 2005   

  (In millions of dollars
except per share amounts)  

*      Deere   Company with Financial
Services on the equity basis except for the health care operations reported on
a discontinued basis.  

The
supplemental consolidating data is presented for informational purposes. The
 Equipment Operations  reflect the basis of consolidation described in Note 1
to the consolidated financial statements. The supplemental  Financial Services 
data represent primarily Deere   Company s credit operations with the health
care operations reported on a discontinued basis. Transactions between the  Equipment
Operations  and  Financial Services  have been eliminated to arrive at the
consolidated financial statements.  

54     

30. SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATING DATA ( continued)   

   STATEMENT
OF CASH FLOWS   

   For
the Years Ended October 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004   

  (In millions of dollars)  

*      Deere   Company with Financial
Services on the equity basis.  

The
supplemental consolidating data is presented for informational purposes. The
 Equipment Operations  reflect Deere   Company with Financial Services on the
Equity Basis. The supplemental  Financial Services  data represent primarily
Deere   Company s credit and health care operations. Transactions between the
 Equipment Operations  and  Financial Services  have been eliminated to arrive
at the consolidated financial statements.  

55     

DEERE  
COMPANY  

   SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA   

  (Dollars in millions except
per share amounts)  

56  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  Deere   Company:  

  We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Deere   Company and
subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of October 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related
statements of consolidated income, changes in consolidated stockholders  equity
and consolidated cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
October 31, 2006.  Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index under Part III,
Item 15(2).  We also have audited
management s assessment, included in the accompanying Management s Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that the Company maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2006,
based on criteria established in  Internal Control -
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements
and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control
over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and financial statement schedule, an opinion on management s
assessment, and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audits.  

  We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audit of financial statements included
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  Our audit of
internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding
of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management s
assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances.  We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  

  A company s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the
supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial
officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s
board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.  A
company s  

57     

internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  

  Because of the inherent
limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material
misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a
timely basis.  Also, projections of any
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial
reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

  In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of the Company as of October 31, 2006
and 2005, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended October 31, 2006, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Also, in our opinion, such financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein. 
Also, in our opinion, management s assessment that the Company
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of October
31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria
established in  Internal Control - Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission.  Furthermore, in our opinion,
the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of October 31, 2006, based on the criteria established
in  Internal Control - Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  

  Deloitte   Touche LLP  

  Chicago, Illinois  

  December 18, 2006  

58     

SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

DEERE   COMPANY  

By:  

/s/ R.W. Lane  

R. W. Lane  

Chairman and
  Chief Executive Officer  

Date:  

December 19,
  2006  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date
indicated..  

  Each person signing below also hereby appoints Robert W. Lane, Michael
J. Mack, Jr. and Marc A. Howze, and each of them singly, his or her lawful
attorney-in-fact with full power to execute and file any and all amendments to
this report together with exhibits thereto and generally to do all such things
as such attorney-in-fact may deem appropriate to enable Deere   Company to
comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and all
requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

Signature 

Title   

Date   

)  

/s/ C.C. Bowles  

Director  

)  

C. C. Bowles  

)  

)  

)  

/s/ Vance D.
  Coffman  

Director  

)  

Vance D. Coffman  

)  

)December 19, 2006  

)  

/s/ T. Kevin
  Dunnigan  

Director  

)  

T. Kevin Dunnigan  

)  

)  

)  

/s/ Dipak C.
  Jain  

Director  

)  

Dipak C. Jain  

)  

59     

Signature 

Title   

Date   

)  

)  

/s/ Arthur L.
  Kelly  

Director  

)  

Arthur L. Kelly  

)  

)  

)  

/s/ R.W. Lane  

Chairman, Director and  

)  

R. W. Lane  

Chief Executive Officer  

)  

)  

)  

/s/ Antonio Madero B.  

Director  

)  

Antonio Madero B.  

)  

)  

)  

Senior Vice President,  

)  

/s/ M. J. Mack, Jr.  

Chief Financial Officer and  

)  

M. J. Mack, Jr.  

Chief Accounting Officer  

)  

)  

)  

/s/ Joachim Milberg  

Director  

)December 19, 2006  

Joachim Milberg  

)  

)  

)  

/s/ Richard B. Myers  

Director  

)  

Richard B. Myers  

)  

)  

)  

/s/ Thomas H. Patrick  

Director  

)  

Thomas H. Patrick  

)  

)  

)  

/s/ Aulana L. Peters  

Director  

)  

Aulana L. Peters  

)  

)  

)  

/s/ John R. Walter  

Director  

)  

John R. Walter  

)  

)  

60     

SCHEDULE II    

  DEERE
  COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES  

  VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS  

  For
the Years Ended October 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004  

  (in
thousands of dollars)  

61     

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  

2. 

Not applicable  

3.1  

Certificate of incorporation, as amended (Exhibit 3.1
  to Form 10-K of registrant for the year ended October 31, 1999, Securities
  and Exchange Commission File Number 1-4121*)  

3.2  

Certificate of Designation Preferences and Rights of
  Series A Participating Preferred Stock (Exhibit 3.2 to Form 10-K of registrant
  for the year ended October 31, 1998, Securities and Exchange Commission File
  Number 1-4121*)  

3.3  

Bylaws , as amended (Exhibit 3 to Form 8-K of
  registrant dated December 4, 2006*)  

4.1  

Five-Year Credit Agreement among registrant, John
  Deere Capital Corporation, various financial institutions, JPMorgan Chase
  Bank N.A. as administrative agent, Citibank N.A. and Credit Suisse as
  documentation agents, Merrill Lynch Bank USA as co-documentation agent, and
  Bank of America, N.A. and Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch as syndication
  agents, et al, dated as of February 14, 2006 (Exhibit 4.1 to form 10-Q of
  registrant for the quarter ended January 31, 2006*)  

4.2  

Form of common stock certificate (Exhibit 4.6 to
  Form 10-K of registrant for the year ended October 31, 1998, Securities and
  Exchange Commission File Number 1-4121*)  

4.3  

Rights Agreement dated as of December 3, 1997
  between registrant and The Bank of New York (Exhibit 4.4 to Form 10-K of
  registrant for the year ended October 31, 2002*)  

4.4  

Terms and Conditions of the Notes, published on May
  31, 2002, applicable to the U.S.$3,000,000,000 Euro Medium Term Note
  Programme of registrant, John Deere Capital Corporation, John Deere Bank
  S.A., John Deere Cash Management S.A. and John Deere Credit Limited (Exhibit
  4.5 to Form 10-K of registrant for the year ended October 31, 2002*)  

Certain instruments relating to long-term debt
  constituting less than 10% of the registrant s total assets, are not filed as
  exhibits herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K. The
  registrant will file copies of such instruments upon request of the
  Commission.  

9.  

Not applicable  

10.1  

Agreement as amended November 1, 1994 between
  registrant and John Deere Capital Corporation concerning agricultural retail
  notes (Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-K of registrant for the year ended October 31,
  1998, Securities and Exchange Commission File Number 1-4121*)  

10.2  

Agreement as amended November 1, 1994 between
  registrant and John Deere Capital Corporation relating to lawn and grounds
  care retail notes (Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-K of registrant for the year ended
  October 31, 1998, Securities and Exchange Commission File Number 1-4121*)  

10.3  

Agreement as amended November 1, 1994 between John
  Deere Construction Equipment Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of registrant
  and John Deere Capital Corporation concerning construction retail notes
  (Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-K of registrant for the year ended October 31, 1998,
  Securities and Exchange Commission File Number 1-4121*)  

10.4  

Agreement dated July 14, 1997 between the John Deere
  Construction Equipment Company and John Deere Capital Corporation concerning
  construction retail notes (Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-K of registrant for the
  year ended October 31, 2003*)  

10.5  

Agreement dated November 1, 2003 between registrant
  and John Deere Capital Corporation relating to fixed charges ratio, ownership
  and minimum net worth of John Deere Capital Corporation (Exhibit 10.5 to Form
  10-K of registrant for the year ended October 31, 2003*)  

10.6   

Deere   Company Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan,
  as amended August 30, 2006   

10.7  

John Deere Performance Bonus Plan (Appendix A to
  Notice and Proxy Statement of registrant for the annual shareholder meeting
  on February 23, 2005, Securities and Exchange Commission File Number 1-4121*)  

10.8 

John Deere Mid-Term Incentive Bonus Plan (Appendix A
  to Notice and Proxy Statement of registrant for the annual shareholder
  meeting on February 26, 2003*)  

62     

63     

*              Incorporated
by reference. Copies of these exhibits are available from the Company upon
request.  

64  

<EX-10.6>
 2
 a06-25680_1ex10d6.htm
 EX-10

EXHIBIT 10.6     

   DEERE   COMPANY   

   VOLUNTARY DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   

Adopted
28 August 1985   

   Amended
11 December 1986   

   Amended
26 May 1993 - Effective 1 July 1993   

   Amended 7
December 1994 - Effective 1 January 1995   

   Amended 4
December 1996 - Effective 1 January 1997   

   Amended:  26 August 1998   

   Amended by Supplement: 30 August 2006   

   (For special rules applicable to deferrals after
2004 see the supplement beginning on page 12)   

65     

TABLE OF CONTENTS    

66     

67     

DEERE   COMPANY   

    VOLUNTARY DEFERRED COMPENSATION
PLAN    

    Section
1.  Establishment and Purpose      

  1.1                                       Establishment  .  Deere   Company, a
Delaware corporation, hereby establishes, effective as of November 1, 1985, a
deferred compensation plan for executives as described herein, which shall be
known as the DEERE   COMPANY VOLUNTARY DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN (hereinafter
called the  Plan ).  

  1.2                                       Purpose  .  The purpose of this Plan is to
provide a means whereby cash  incentive
awards, including performance bonus, cash bonus and profit sharing awards, or
any other compensation determined by the Committee to be subject hereto, and
base salary payable by the Company to key personnel may be deferred for a
specified period.  

    Section
2.  Definitions      

  2.1                                       Definitions  .  Whenever used hereinafter, the
following terms shall have the meaning set forth below:  

  (a)                           Board  means the Board of Directors of the
Company.  

  (b)                                      Committee  means the Board Committee on
Compensation of the Board.  

  (c)                                       Company  means DEERE   COMPANY, a Delaware
corporation.  

  (d)                                      Employee  means a regular salaried key employee
(including officers and directors who are also employees) of the Company or its
Subsidiaries, or any branch or division thereof.  

  (e)                                       Participant  means an Employee designated by the
Committee to participate in this Plan.  

68     

(f)                                         Subsidiary  means any corporation, a majority of
the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of which is directly or
indirectly owned by the Company.  

  (g)                                      Fiscal Year  means the 12-month period beginning
November 1 and ending October 31.  

  2.2                                       Gender and Number  .  Except
when otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine terminology when used in
the Plan shall also include the feminine gender, and the definition of any term
herein in the singular shall also include the plural.  

    Section 3. 
Eligibility for Participation      

  3.1                                       Eligibility  .  Participation in the Plan
shall be limited to those Employees of the Company or any Subsidiary who are
key to the Company s growth and success and who are designated as Participants
by the Committee.  In the event an
Employee no longer meets the requirements for Participation in this Plan, he
shall become an inactive Participant, retaining all the rights described under
this Plan, except the right to make any further deferrals, until the time that
he again becomes an active Participant.  

    Section 4. 
Election to Defer      

  4.1              Deferral Amount   

  (a)                                      Any Participant may elect to defer any part (in
5% increments up to 95%) of an award to be paid under the provisions of the
John Deere Performance Bonus Plan.  Such
election must be made in writing prior to the beginning of the Fiscal Year upon
which the award is based. 
Notwithstanding the Participant s election, enough of the award must be
paid in cash to cover all withholding taxes. 
If not, the Company shall be authorized to reduce the Participant s
elected deferral in 5% increments until the withholding taxes are covered.  

  (b)                                     Any Participant may elect to defer any part (in
5% increments up to 95%) of base salary. 
Such election must be made in writing prior to the beginning of the
calendar quarter in which the deferrals are to commence and shall remain in
effect for all remaining calendar quarters of the calendar year.  The deferral  

69     

percent
may be increased in subsequent calendar quarters, but may not be
decreased.  Notwithstanding the
Participant s election, enough salary must be paid in cash to cover all
withholding taxes and Participant payroll elections, such as health care
premiums, Deere PAC, United Way, Optional Life Insurance, etc.  If not, the Company shall be authorized to
reduce the Participant s elected deferral in 5% increments until the
withholding taxes and the Participant s payroll elections are covered, and the
reduced deferral percent shall remain in effect until the beginning of the next
calendar quarter, at which time it shall revert to the Participant s stated
deferral percent subject to the same reduction potential.  

  Notwithstanding
amounts elected by the Participant for deferral from the John Deere Performance
Bonus Plan award, the total deferred portion shall not be less than $1,000 in
any given calendar year.  In the event
the total deferred amount is less than $1,000, it shall be paid pursuant to the
normal payout schedule for the John Deere Performance Bonus Plan.  

  Amounts
of less than $1,000 per calendar quarter shall not be deferred from salary.  

  (c)                                      Any Participant may elect to defer any part (in
5% increments up to 95%) of a Bonus Award to be paid in cash under the
provisions of the John Deere Equity Incentive Plan and any other cash incentive
award that is authorized by the Committee to be deferred pursuant hereto.  Such election must be in writing prior to the
beginning of the calendar year in which such award would otherwise become
payable.  Notwithstanding the Participant s
election, enough of the award must be paid in cash to cover all withholding
taxes.  If not, the Company shall be
authorized to reduce the Participant s elected deferral in 5% increments until
the withholding taxes are covered.  

  4.2                                      Deferral Period and Payment Method  .  If the
Participant defers any amount pursuant to Section 4.1, the Participant shall
also designate the period and payment method for the deferral in the
election.  Payments of the deferral
amounts, plus any growth additions thereon, shall be made on the date or dates
specified by the Participant in the election. 
However, if death, total and permanent disability, or termination (other
than retirement) occurs before retirement, all remaining deferrals plus any
growth additions, shall be distributed as a single lump sum payment in January
of the calendar year following the date of such death, disability or
termination.  

  In
all other cases, the distribution must begin on a date specified by the
Participant in the election (whether the distribution is scheduled to begin
before or after the date of retirement) but no later than ten years following
the date of retirement.  The Participant
may elect to have distribution made in up to ten annual installments  

70     

from
the date distribution is to begin, but such distribution must be completed
within ten years following retirement.  

  If
the Participant wishes to designate a distribution after retirement, the
Participant may designate in the election that distribution shall begin at
retirement or begin at a specified point in time, or during a specified month,
following the date of retirement, (Example #1: 
Distribution to begin three months after retirement.  Example #2: 
Distribution to begin the January of the year following retirement.)  

  4.3                                       Irrevocable Elections  .  The
elections in Sections 4.1 and 4.2 are irrevocable and may not be modified or
terminated by the Participant or his beneficiary.  

    Section 5. 
Deferred Accounts      

  5.1                                       Participant Accounts  .  The
Company shall establish and maintain a bookkeeping account for each
Participant, to be credited as of the date the cash incentive award or salary
is actually deferred.  While the John
Deere Performance Bonus Plan or John Deere Equity Incentive Plan deferral will
be credited to the Participant s account when deferred as stated above, it will
not begin earning growth additions, under Section 5.2, until the first day of
the succeeding calendar quarter following the date of deferral.  

  5.2                                       Growth Additions  .  Each
Participant s account shall be credited on the first day of each calendar
quarter with a growth addition computed on the balance in the account as of the
last day of the immediately preceding quarter. 
The growth addition shall be equal to said account balance multiplied by
a growth increment. The method for determining the growth increment shall be
determined from time to time by the Committee. 
The method of determining the growth increment, as stated on the
election form, that is in effect on the first date a growth addition is added
to a Participant s account will remain in effect for that deferral until that
entire deferral, and growth additions attributable to it, have been distributed
for a given deferral.  

  5.3                                       Effect on other Company Benefits  . Salary, cash incentive awards or bonus deferred
pursuant to Section 4.1 of this Plan shall not decrease in any way benefits
provided under any other Company sponsored benefit plan.  In the event deferrals under this Plan
decrease benefits payable under any qualified retirement plan or limit
deferrals under any qualified defined contribution plan, such decrease or limit
shall be restored by immediate participation in the John Deere Supplementary
Pension Plan or the Defined Contribution Restoration Plan.  

71     

5.4                                       Charges Against Accounts  .  There
shall be charged against each Participant s account any payments made to the
Participant or to his beneficiary in accordance with Section 6 hereof.  

  5.5                                       Contractual Obligation  .  It is
intended that the Company is under a contractual obligation to make payments
from a Participant s account when due. 
Account balances shall not be financed through a trust fund or insurance
contracts or otherwise unless owned by the Company.  Payment of account balances shall be made out
of the general funds of the Company.  

  5.6                                       Unsecured Interest  .  No
Participant or beneficiary shall have any interest whatsoever in any specific
asset of the Company.  To the extent that
any person acquires a right to receive payments under this Plan, such right
shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the
Company.  

    Section 6. 
Payment of Deferred Amounts      

  6.1                                       Payment of Deferred Amounts  .  Payment
of a Participant s deferred salary, or cash incentive award plus accumulated
growth additions attributable thereto, shall be paid in a lump sum or in
approximately equal annual installments, in the manner elected by the
Participant under Sections 4.1 and 4.2 of this Plan.  

  6.2                                       Financial Hardship  .  The
Committee, at its sole discretion, may alter the timing or manner of payment of
deferred amounts in the event that the Participant establishes, to the
satisfaction of the Board, severe financial hardship.  In such event, the Committee may:  

  (a)                                      provide that all or a portion of the amount
previously deferred by the Participant shall be paid immediately in a lump sum
cash payment,  

  (b)                                     provide that all or a portion of the installments
payable over a period of time shall be paid immediately in a lump sum, or  

  (c)                                      provide for such other installment payment
schedules as it deems appropriate under the circumstances,  

  as
long as the amount distributed shall not be in excess of that amount which is
necessary for the Participant to meet the financial hardship.  

  Severe
financial hardship will be deemed to have occurred in the event of the
Participant s impending bankruptcy, a dependent s long and serious illness,
other events of similar magnitude or the invalidation of a deferral election by
the Internal Revenue Service.  The
Committee s decision in passing on the severe financial  

72     

hardship
of the Participant and the manner in which, if at all, the payment of deferred
amounts shall be altered or modified shall be final, conclusive and not subject
to appeal.  

    Section 7. 
Beneficiary      

  7.1                                       Beneficiary  .  A Participant may designate a
beneficiary or beneficiaries who, upon his death, are to receive the
distributions that otherwise would have been paid to him.  All designations shall be in writing and
shall be effective only if and when delivered to the Secretary of the Company
during the lifetime of the Participant. 
If a Participant designates a beneficiary without providing in the
designation that the beneficiary must be living at the time of such
distribution, the designation shall vest in the beneficiary all of the
distributions whether payable before or after the beneficiary s death, and any
distributions remaining upon the beneficiary s death shall be made to the
beneficiary s estate.  

  A
Participant may from time to time during his lifetime change his beneficiary or
beneficiaries by a written instrument delivered to the Secretary of the
Company.  In the event a Participant
shall not designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries pursuant to this Section, or
if for any reason such designation shall be ineffective, in whole or in part,
the distribution that otherwise would have been paid to such Participant shall
be paid to his estate and in such event, the term  beneficiary  shall include
his estate.  

    Section 8. 
Rights of Employees, Participants      

  8.1                                       Employment  .  Nothing in this Plan shall
interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries to terminate any Employee s or Participant s employment at any
time, nor confer upon any Employee or Participant any right to continue in the
employ of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.  

  8.2                                       Nontransferability  .  No right
or interest of any Participant in this Plan shall be assignable or
transferable, or subject to any lien, directly, by operation of law, or
otherwise, including execution, levy, garnishment, attachment, pledge and
bankruptcy.  In the event of a
Participant s death, payment of any amounts due under this Plan shall be made
to the Participant s designated beneficiary, or in the absence of such
designation, to the Participant s estate.  

73  

Section
9.  Administration      

  9.1                                       Administration  .  The Committee shall be
responsible for the administration of the Plan. 
The Committee is authorized to interpret the Plan, to prescribe, amend,
and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, provide for conditions
and assurances deemed necessary or advisable to protect the interest of the
Company, and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the
administration of the Plan, but only to the extent not contrary to the express
provisions of the Plan.  The Committee
shall determine, within the limits of the express provisions of the Plan, the
Employees to whom, and the time or times at which, participation shall be
extended, and the amount which may be deferred. 
In making such determinations, the Committee may take into account the
nature of the services rendered by such Employees or classes of Employees,
their present and potential contributions to the Company s or its Subsidiaries 
success and such other factors as the Committee in its discretion shall deem
relevant.  The determination of the
Committee, interpretation or other action made or taken pursuant to the
provisions of the Plan, shall be final and shall be binding and conclusive for
all purposes and upon all persons.  

    Section
10.  Amendment, Modification and
Termination of the Plan      

  10.1                                 Amendment, Modification and Termination of the
Plan  .  The Committee, at any time may terminate, and
at any time and from time to time and in any respect, may amend or modify the
Plan, provided, however, that no such action of the Committee, without approval
of the Participant, may adversely affect in any way any amounts already
deferred pursuant to Section 4.1 of this Plan.  

    Section
11.  Merger or Consolidation      

  11.1                                 Merger or Consolidation  .  If the
Company shall be involved in a dissolution, liquidation, merger, or
consolidation in which the Company and its Subsidiaries are not the surviving
corporation, the Committee may:  

  (a)                                      terminate the Plan, and all amounts deferred,
plus interest additions shall become immediately payable in full, not
withstanding any other provisions to the contrary, or  

  (b)                                     permit the Plan to continue, making any necessary
adjustments or  

74     

modifications
to reflect any impact of the dissolution, liquidation, merger, or consolidation,
as determined by the Committee.  

  Amounts
calculated under either (a) or (b) above shall be paid in full as soon as
practicable following any termination of the Plan.  

    Section 12. 
Requirements of Law      

  12.1                                 Requirements of Law  .  The
payment of cash pursuant to this Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws,
rules, and regulations, and shall not be made except upon approval of proper
government agencies as may be required.  

  12.2                                 Governing Law  .  The Plan, and all agreements
hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of
the State of Illinois.  

    Section 13. 
Withholding Taxes      

  13.1                                 Withholding Taxes  .  The
Company shall have the right to deduct from all payments under this Plan an
amount necessary to satisfy any Federal, state, or local withholding tax
requirements.  

    Section 14. 
Effective Date of the Plan      

  14.1            Effective Date .  The Plan shall become effective as of
November 1, 1985.  

75     

SUPPLEMENT TO     

   DEERE
  COMPANY   

   VOLUNTARY
DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   

   APPLICABLE TO AMOUNTS DEFERRED AFTER DECEMBER 31,
2004   

  The
following provisions will apply only to amounts deferred under the Plan after
December 31, 2004 and not to amounts deferred under the Plan that were both
earned and vested before January 1, 2005. Amounts deferred under the Plan prior
to January 1, 2005 will be subject to the terms of the Plan without regard to
this supplement. Except to the extent amended hereby, the terms of the Plan
shall continue to apply to amounts deferred pursuant to the Plan.  

  1.                   The following definitions are added to  Section 2 ( Definitions ) .  

  2.1(d)                       Disability 
means a participant is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by
reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be
expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period
of not less than 12 months or is, by reason of any medically determinable
physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can
be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months,
receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than 3 months
under a disability or an accident and health plan covering employees of the
Company.  

  2.1(i)                           Section
409A  means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations and
other guidance thereunder.  

  2.1(j)                           Unforeseeable
Emergency  means a severe financial hardship to the Participant or his
beneficiary resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant or his
beneficiary, the Participant s or beneficiary s spouse, or a dependent of the
Participant or beneficiary, loss of the Participant s or his beneficiary s
property due to casualty (including the need to rebuild a home following damage
to a home not otherwise covered by insurance, for example, not as a result of a
natural disaster), or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable
circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the
Participant or his beneficiary.  

  2.                   Subsections 2.1(d) through (g)   are renumbered as 2.1(e) through (h),
respectively.  

  3.                   Section 4 ( Election to Defer )   is restated in its entirety as follows:  

  4.1                                     Deferral Amount  

  (a)                                      Any
Participant may elect to defer any part (in 5% increments up to  

76     

95%)
of an award to be paid under the provisions of the John Deere Performance Bonus
Plan.  Such election must be made in
writing prior to the beginning of the Fiscal Year upon which the award is
based.  Notwithstanding the Participant s
election, enough of the award must be paid in cash to cover all withholding
taxes.  If not, the Company shall be
authorized to reduce the Participant s elected deferral in 5% increments until
the withholding taxes are covered.  

  Notwithstanding amounts
elected by the Participant for deferral from the John Deere Performance Bonus
Plan award, the total deferred portion shall not be less than $1,000 in any
given calendar year.  In the event the
total deferred amount is less than $1,000, it shall be paid pursuant to the
normal payout schedule for the John Deere Performance Bonus Plan.  

  (b)                                     Any Participant may elect to defer any part (in
5% increments up to 95%) of base salary. Such election must be made in writing
prior to the beginning of the calendar year in which the deferrals are to
commence and shall remain in effect for the remainder of the calendar year.
Notwithstanding the Participant s election, enough salary must be paid in cash
to cover all withholding taxes and Participant payroll elections, such as
health care premiums, Deere PAC, United Way, Optional Life Insurance, etc. If
not, the Company shall be authorized to reduce the Participant s elected
deferral in 5% increments until the withholding taxes and the Participant s
payroll elections are covered, and the reduced deferral percent shall remain in
effect until the beginning of the next calendar quarter, at which time it shall
revert to the Participant s stated deferral percent subject to the same
reduction potential.  

  Amounts
of less than $1,000 per calendar quarter shall not be deferred from salary.  

  (c)                                      Any Participant may elect to defer any part (in
5% increments up to 95%) of any other cash incentive award that is authorized
by the Committee to be deferred pursuant hereto.  Such election must be in writing (i) in the
case of non-performance-based compensation or compensation for services
performed for less than 12 months, not later than the close of the Participant s
taxable year preceding the taxable year in which services related to the award
are performed; or (ii) in the case of performance-based compensation (as
determined by the Committee pursuant to Section 409A) based on services
performed over a period of at least 12 months, prior to the close of the Fiscal
Year immediately preceding the calendar year of payment but in  

77     

no
event later than 6 months before the end of the performance period.  Notwithstanding the Participant s election,
enough of the award must be paid in cash to cover all withholding taxes.  If not, the Company shall be authorized to
reduce the Participant s elected deferral in 5% increments until the
withholding taxes are covered.  

  The
total deferred portion of any cash incentive award shall not be less than
$1,000 otherwise it shall be paid pursuant to the normal payout schedule for
the award.  

  4.2                                     Deferral Period and Payment Method  .  If the
Participant defers any amount pursuant to Section 4.1, the Participant shall
also designate the period and payment method for the deferral in the
election.  Payments of the deferral
amounts, plus any growth additions thereon, shall be made on the first business
day of the calendar quarter specified by the Participant in the election.  However, if death, Disability, or separation
from service  (as determined by the
Secretary of the United States Treasury for purposes of Section 409A) occurs
before retirement, all remaining deferrals plus any growth additions, shall be
distributed as a single lump sum payment in January of the calendar year
following the date of such death, Disability or separation from service.  

  In
all other cases, the distribution must begin on the first business day of the
calendar quarter specified by the Participant in the election (whether the
distribution is scheduled to begin before or after the date of retirement) but
no later than ten years following the date of retirement.  The Participant may elect to have
distribution made in up to ten annual installments from the date distribution
is to begin, but such distribution must be completed within ten years following
the year of retirement.  

  If
the Participant wishes to designate a distribution after retirement, the
Participant may designate in the election that distribution shall begin on the
first business day of the third or later calendar quarter following retirement.  

  Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary herein, no distribution upon separation from service
(including upon retirement or other termination)  may be made before the first business day of
the calendar quarter that is six (6) months after such Participant s date of
separation from service, or, if earlier, the date of the Participant s death,
and any distribution that would be made but for application of this provision
shall instead be aggregated with, and paid together with, the first
distribution scheduled to be made after the end of such six-month period (or,
if earlier, the date of the Participant s death).  

78     

4.3                                     Irrevocable Elections  .  The
elections in Sections 4.1 and 4.2 are irrevocable when made and may not be
modified or terminated thereafter by the Participant or his beneficiary.  

  4.                   Subsection 5.1     ( Deferred Accounts   -  Participant Accounts ) is
amended by changing the phrase  John Deere Equity Incentive Plan  to  John
Deere Mid-Term Incentive Bonus Plan .  

  5.                   Subsection 6.2 ( Payment of
Deferred Amounts    -  Unforeseeable
Emergency ) is restated in its entirety as follows:  

  6.2                                     Unforeseeable Emergency  .  The
Committee, at its sole discretion, may alter the timing or manner of payment of
deferred amounts in the event that the Participant establishes, to the
satisfaction of the Committee, the occurrence of an Unforeseeable
Emergency.  In such event, the Committee
may:  

  (a)                                      provide that all or a portion of the amount
previously deferred by the Participant shall be paid immediately in a lump sum
cash payment,  

  (b)                                     provide that all or a portion of the installments
payable over a period of time shall be paid immediately in a lump sum, or  

  (c)                                      provide for such other installment payment
schedules as it deems appropriate under the circumstances,  

  as
long as, as determined under regulations of the Secretary of the United States
Treasury, the amount distributed shall not be in excess of that amount which is
reasonably necessary to satisfy the Unforeseeable Emergency (which may include
amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of such
distribution(s)), after taking into account the extent to which such hardship
is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or
otherwise or by liquidation of the Participant s assets.  

  The
Committee s decision in passing on the occurrence of an Unforeseeable Emergency
for the Participant and the manner in which, if at all, the payment of deferred
amounts shall be altered or modified shall be final, conclusive and not subject
to appeal.  

  6.                 Subsection 8.3 ( Rights of
Employees, Participants    -  No
Acceleration of Distributions ) is added as follows:  

  8.3                                     No Acceleration of Distributions  . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary  

79     

herein,
this Plan does not permit the acceleration of the time or schedule of any
distribution under the Plan, except as permitted by Section 409A.  

  7.                   Section 10.1 ( Amendment,
Modification and Termination of the Plan )   is amended by adding thereto:  

   Notwithstanding
termination of the Plan, deferral amounts and growth additions shall be paid at
the times and in the manner provided for herein and shall not be accelerated,
unless (i) all arrangements sponsored by the Company that would be aggregated
with the Plan under Section 409A if the same Participant participated in all
such arrangements are terminated, (ii) no payments other than payments that
would be payable under the terms of such arrangements if the termination had
not occurred are made within 12 months of the termination of such arrangements,
(iii) all payments are made within 24 months of the termination of the
arrangements and (iv) the Company does not adopt a new arrangement that would
be aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A if the same Participant
participated in both arrangements, at any time within the five years following
the date of Plan termination.   

  In addition, there is added immediately following
Section 10.1 a new  Section 10.2 (Section 409A
Amendments)  as follows:  

    Section
409A Amendments .  Notwithstanding any
provision in this Plan to the contrary the Board,  the Committee or the Vice President of Human
Resources of the Company shall have the unilateral right to amend or modify (i)
this Plan, (ii) any Participant elections under this Plan and (iii) the time
and manner of any payment of benefits under this Plan in accordance with
Section 409A, in each case, without the consent of any Participant, to the
extent that the Board, the Committee or the Vice President of Human Resources
deems such action to be necessary or advisable to avoid the imposition on any
Participant of adverse or unintended tax consequences under Section 409A,
including recognition of income in respect of any benefits under this Plan
before such benefits are paid or imposition of interest or penalties.  Any determinations made by the Board,  the Committee or the Vice President under this
Section shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons.   

  8.                   Section 11 ( Merger or
Consolidation   ) is restated
in its entirety as follows:  

    Section 11.  Change in Control    

  11.1                               Change in Control  .  If the
Company shall experience a  Change in Control Event  as defined under Section
409A, the Committee may:  

  (a)                                      terminate the Plan within the twelve months
following the Change in Control Event, and all amounts deferred, plus interest
additions shall be distributed in full as soon as practicable, but in no event
later than twelve  

80     

months
following, the date the Plan is terminated, notwithstanding any other
provisions to the contrary, or  

  (b)                                     permit the Plan to continue, making any necessary
adjustments or modifications to reflect any impact of the Change in Control
Event, as determined by the Committee  

81  

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.19>
 3
 a06-25680_1ex10d19.htm
 EX-10

EXHIBIT 10.19     

   DEERE
  COMPANY   

   NONEMPLOYEE
DIRECTOR DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   

EFFECTIVE
DATE: 01 JANUARY 1997   

   REVISED:  26 MAY 1999   

   AMENDED BY SUPPLEMENT: 30 AUGUST
2006   

   AMENDED:
29 NOVEMBER 2006   

   (For special rules applicable to deferrals after 2004 see the
supplement beginning on page 12)   

82     

DEERE
  COMPANY   

   NONEMPLOYEE
DIRECTOR DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   

   I.                                               Purpose   

  The purposes of the Deere
  Company Nonemployee Director Deferred Compensation Plan ( Plan ) are to
attract and retain highly qualified individuals to serve as Directors of Deere
  Company ( Company ) and to relate Nonemployee Directors  interests more
closely to the Company s performance and its shareholders  interests.  

   II.                                           Eligibility   

  Each member of the Board
of Directors ( Board ) of the Company who is not an employee of the Company or
any of its subsidiaries ( Nonemployee Director ) is eligible to participate in
the Plan.  

   III.                                       Definitions   

  (a)                                      Committee .   The Nominating Committee of the Board or any
successor committee of the Board. 

  (b)                                     Common
Stock .   The publicly traded $1 par
value common stock of the Company or any successor. 

  (c)                                      Compensation .   Amounts payable for services as a
Nonemployee Director, excluding reimbursed expenses. 

  (d)                                     Deferred
Account .   The bookkeeping account
maintained for each participating Nonemployee Director which will be credited
with Deferred Amounts pursuant to the terms hereof. 

  (e)                                      Deferred
Amounts .   All amounts credited to a
Nonemployee Director s Deferred Account pursuant to the Plan. 

  (f)                                        Elective
Deferrals .   Compensation voluntarily
deferred by a Nonemployee Director under the Plan after 31 December 1996 (other
than Lump-Sum Deferral defined below). 

  (g)                                     Lump-Sum
Deferral .   A one-time lump-sum
amount for each 

83     

Nonemployee Director serving on 31 December 1996, which amount is
deferred under the Plan as described in Section V, below, as a result of the
termination of the John Deere Pension Benefit Plan for Directors ( Retirement
Plan ).  

  (h)                                     Participant .   A Nonemployee Director for whom a Lump-Sum
Deferral occurs on the Effective Date, or who elects to participate in the
Plan. 

  (i)                                         Pre-1997
Elective Deferrals .   Compensation
deferred by a Nonemployee Director prior to 1 January 1997 under the
predecessor Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan approved 30 January 1973, as
amended from time to time. 

  (j)                                         Secretary .  The Secretary of the Company. 

   IV.                                      Effective
Date   

  The effective date of the
Plan is 1 January 1997 ( Effective Date ).  

   V.                                          Lump-Sum
Deferral   

  As of the Effective Date,
the Retirement Plan will be eliminated and the present value of the life
annuity offered under the Retirement Plan for each Nonemployee Director who is
both a participant in the Retirement Plan and a member of the Board on the
Effective Date will be deposited into the Deferred Account of such Nonemployee
Director.  The present value will be
determined by using a discount factor which shall be the rate for 10-year
treasury stripped bonds in effect as of 31 December 1996 and by using the 1984
Unisex Pension Mortality tables published in the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation Regulation 2619, Appendix A.  

   VI.                                      Elective
Deferral   

  (a)                                     Participants
may elect to defer a part or all of their annual Compensation by making an
irrevocable deferral election in writing on a form provided by the Company and
delivered to the Company not later than the Company may direct.  Elective Deferrals will become effective on
the first day of the following calendar quarter, at which time they become
irrevocable.  Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence, any person who first becomes a Nonemployee Director during
a calendarquarter, may elect, before his or her term begins, to defer a part or
all of his or her compensation that 

84     

would otherwise be payable to him or her during the remainder of such
calendar quarter and each succeeding calendar quarter until such election is
modified or terminated as provided herein. 
A Participant may discontinue deferrals, or may change his or her
investment choices, for future quarters by providing a written election
delivered to the Company not later than the Company may direct.  These changes will become effective on the
first day of the following calendar quarter.  

  (b)                                    If
the amount of a Participant s Compensation is changed, the deferral percentage
and investment alternative elections shall continue to be applied to the new
Compensation amount after the change. 

   VII.                                 Deferred
Account   

  (a)                                     The
Company shall establish a separate Deferred Account for each Participant. 

  (b)                                    Pre-1997
Elective Deferrals and the interest earned thereon shall be credited to the
Deferred Account and will continue to be invested in the interest-bearing
investment alternative described below. 

  (c)                                     Two
investment alternatives will be available, as of the Effective Date: an
interest-bearing alternative and an equity alternative denominated in units of
Deere Common Stock.  Additional
investment alternatives may be added by subsequent amendment of the Plan. 

  (d)                                    At
the time of Elective Deferral, Participants may direct their deferrals into
either investment alternative, or a combination of the two, in increments of
5%. 

  (e)                                     Deferred
amounts credited into the interest-bearing investment alternative will be
credited with interest at the end of each calendar quarter at the interest rate
identified in the U.S. Federal Reserve Statistical Release,  bank prime loan 
rate for the second month of each calendar quarter, plus 2%. 

  (f)                                       Deferred
Amounts credited into the equity alternative shall be expressed and credited to
each Participant s Deferred Account in units ( Units ) determined as hereinafter
provided.  As of each date on which
Deferred Amounts are credited into the equity investment alternative, the
Company shall credit to such Deferred Account a number of Units and fractional
Units, rounded to three decimal places, determined by dividing such Deferred
Amounts by the Unit Value (as defined below) of one share of 

85     

Common Stock.  The  Unit Value 
of one share of Common Stock shall be the closing price of the Common Stock on
the New York Stock Exchange on the date on which Deferred Amounts are credited
to the Deferred Account or a payment is to be valued under Section VIII (b)
below, as the case may be; or if there were no sales on that day, then Unit
Value shall be the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape
on the most recent preceding day on which there were sales.  The Lump-Sum Deferral shall be credited as of
the Effective Date.  

  (g)                                    When
dividends are paid with respect to the Company s Common Stock, the Company
shall calculate the amount which would have been payable on the Units in each
Participant s Deferred Account on each dividend record date as if each Unit
represented one issued and outstanding share of the Company s Common
Stock.  The applicable number of Units
and fractional Units equal to the amount of such dividends (based on the Unit
Value of one share of the Company s Common Stock on the dividend payment date)
shall be credited to each Participant s Deferred Account.  In the event of any capital stock adjustment
to the Company s Common Stock or other similar event, the number of Units or
fractional Units credited to Deferred Accounts shall be adjusted to
appropriately reflect such event. 

  (h)                                    Participants
credited with Units hereunder shall not have any voting rights in respect
thereof. 

   VIII.                             Payment
of Benefits   

  (a)                                     The
value of a Participant s Deferred Account shall be payable solely in cash,
either in (i) a lump sum, or (ii) in up to ten equal annual installments, in
accordance with an election made by the Participant by written notice delivered
to the Company prior to the calendar year in which payments are to be made or
commence.  Such payment or payments shall
be made or commence, as the case may be, on the first business day of the
calendar year following the year of the termination of service as Director. 

  (b)                                    Any
lump sum payment shall be valued as of the end of the most recent calendar
month prior to the payment date.  The
amount of each installment payment shall be determined by dividing the
aggregate value credited to the Participant s Deferred Account (as of the end
of the most recent calendar month prior to the payment date) by the remaining
number of unpaid installments; provided, however, that the Committee may, in
its absolute discretion, approve any other method of determining the amount of
each installment payment in order to achieve approximately equal installment
payments over the installment period. 

86     

(c)                                     The
Company shall have the right to deduct from all payments under this Plan the
amount necessary to satisfy any Federal, state, or local withholding tax
requirements. 

  (d)                                    The
Committee, at its sole discretion, may alter the timing or manner of payment of
Deferred Amounts in the event that the Participant establishes, to the
satisfaction of the Board, severe financial hardship.  In such event, the Committee may: 

  (1)                                     provide
that all or a portion of the amount previously deferred by the Participant
shall be paid immediately in a lump-sum cash payment; 

  (2)                                     provide
that all or a portion of the installments payable over a period of time shall
be paid immediately in a lump sum; or 

  (3)                                     provide
for such other installment payment schedules as it deems appropriate under the
circumstances. 

  It is expressly provided that the amount distributed shall not be in
excess of that amount which is necessary for the Participant to meet the
financial hardship.  Severe financial
hardship will be deemed to have occurred in the event of the Participant s
impending bankruptcy, the long and serious illness of Participant or a
dependent, other events of similar magnitude, or the invalidation of a deferral
election by the Internal Revenue Service. 
The Committee s decision in passing on the severe financial hardship of
the Participant and the manner in which, if at all, the payment of Deferred
Amounts shall be altered or modified shall be final, conclusive and not subject
to appeal.  

   IX.                                      Death
of Participant   

  (a)                                     In
the event of the death of a Participant, any amounts remaining in the Deferred
Account will be paid to the Participant s designated beneficiary in accordance
with the distribution choices (e.g., lump sum or installments) elected by the
Participant.  These payments will
commence on the first business day of the calendar year following the
Participant s death.  Amounts unpaid
after the death of both the Participant and the designated beneficiary will be
paid in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the estate of the last
of them to die.  In the event that a
Participant had not properly filed a beneficiary designation with the 

87     

Company prior to his or her death or, in the event a beneficiary
predeceases the Participant, any unpaid deferrals will be paid in a lump sum to
the Participant s estate.  

  (b)                                    No
beneficiary hereunder shall have any right to assign, alienate, pledge,
hypothecate, anticipate, or in any way create a lien upon any part of this
Plan, nor shall the interest of any beneficiary or any distributions due or
accruing to such beneficiary be liable in any way for the debts, defaults, or
obligations of such beneficiary, whether such obligations arise out of contract
or tort. 

   X.                                          Change
of Control   

  The following
acceleration and valuation provisions shall apply in the event of a  Change of
Control  or  Potential Change of Control,  as defined in this Section X.  

  (a)                                     In
the event that: 

  (i)                                        a
 Change of Control  as defined in paragraph (b) of this Section X occurs; or 

  (ii)                                     a
 Potential Change of Control  as defined in paragraph (c) of this Section X
occurs and the Committee or the Board determines that the provisions of this
paragraph (a) should be invoked; 

  then, unless otherwise determined by the Committee or the Board in
writing prior to the occurrence of such Change of Control, the value of all
Units credited to a Participant s Deferred Account shall be converted to cash
based on the  Change of Control Price  (as defined in paragraph X(d)) and the
aggregate amount credited to the Participant s Deferred Account under the Plan
shall be paid in one lump-sum payment as soon as practicable following the date
the Change of Control or Potential Change of Control occurs, but in no event
more than 90 days after such date.  

  (b)                                    For
purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section X, a  Change of Control  means a
change in control of a nature that would be required to be reported in response
to Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 ( Exchange Act ) whether or not the Company is then subject to such
reporting requirement, provided that, without limitation, such a Change of
Control shall be deemed to have 

88     

occurred if:  

  (i)                                        any
 person  (as defined in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other
than a Participant in the Plan or group of Participants in the Plan, is or
becomes the  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13(d)(3) under the Exchange
Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 30% or
more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities; 

  (ii)                                     during
any period of two consecutive years, there shall cease to be a majority of the
Board comprised as follows: individuals who at the beginning of such period
constitute the Board and any new director(s) whose election by the Board or
nomination for election by the Company s stockholders was approved by a vote of
at least _ of the directors then still in office who either were directors at
the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was
previously so approved; 

  (iii)                                  the shareholders of the
Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other
company, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting
securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to
represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting
securities of the surviving entity) at least 80% of the combined voting power
of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding
immediately after such merger of consolidation; or 

  (iv)                                 the
shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the
Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or
substantially all of the Company s assets. 

  (c)                                     For
purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section X, a  Potential Change of Control 
means the happening of any of the following: 

  (i)                                        the
entering into an agreement by the Company (other than with a Participant in the
Plan or group of Participants in the Plan), the consummation of which would
result in a Change of Control of the Company as defined in paragraph (b) of
this Section X; or 

  (ii)                                     the
acquisition of beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, by any entity,
person or group (other than a Participant or group of Participants, the Company
or a majority owned subsidiary of the 

89     

Company, or any of the Company s employee benefit
plans including its trustee) of securities of the Company representing 5%  or more of the combined voting power of the
Company s outstanding securities and the adoption by the Board of a resolution
to the effect that a Potential Change of Control of the Company has occurred
for purposes of the Plan.  

  (d)                                    For
purposes of this Section X,  Change of Control Price  means the highest price
per share of the Common Stock paid in any transaction reported on the New York
Stock Exchange Composite Tape, or offered in any transaction related to a
Potential or actual Change of Control of the Company at: 

  (i)                                        the
date the Change of Control occurs; 

  (ii)                                     the
date the Potential Change of Control is determined to have occurred; or 

  (iii)                                  such other date as the
Committee may determine before the Change of Control occurs, or before or at
the time the Potential Change of Control is determined to have occurred or the
Committee or the Board determines that the provisions of paragraph X(a) shall
be invoked, or at any time selected by the Committee during the 60 day period
preceding such date. 

  (e)                                     Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in the Plan, in the event of a Change of Control (i)
the Plan may not be amended to reduce the formulas contained in paragraph
VII(e) which determine the rate at which amounts equivalent to interest accrue
with respect to cash amounts credited to a Participant s Deferred Account,
including cash amounts attributable to the conversion of Units in a Participant s
Deferred Account pursuant to paragraph X(a), and (ii) the successor Plan
Administrator referred to in paragraph XI(d) shall determine the rates under
the interest formulas contained in paragraph VII(e). 

   XI.                                      Miscellaneous   

  (a)                                     The
right of a Participant to receive any amount credited to the Participant s
Deferred Account shall not be transferable or assignable by the Participant, in
whole or in part, either directly or by operation of law or otherwise,
including, but not by way of limitation, execution, levy, garnishment,
attachment, pledge, bankruptcy, or in any other manner, and no right or
interest established herein shall be liable for, or subject to, any obligation
or liability of the Participant, except by will or by the laws of 

90     

descent and distribution.  To the
extent that any person acquires a right to receive any amount credited to a
Participant s Deferred Account hereunder, such right shall be no greater than
that of an unsecured general creditor of the Company.  Except as expressly provided herein, any
person having an interest in any amount credited to a Participant s Deferred
Account under the Plan shall not be entitled to payment until the date the
amount is due and payable.  No person
shall be entitled to anticipate any payment by assignment, alienation, sale,
pledge, encumbrance or transfer in any form or manner prior to actual or
constructive receipt thereof.  

  (b)                                    The
amounts credited to the Deferred Account shall constitute an unsecured claim
against the general funds of the Company. 
The Company shall not be required to reserve or otherwise set aside
funds or shares of Common Stock for the payment of its obligations
hereunder.  The Plan is unfunded, and the
Company will make Plan benefit payments solely from the general assets of the
Company as benefit payments come due from time to time. 

  (c)                                     Except
as herein provided, this Plan shall be binding upon the parties hereto, their
designated beneficiaries, heirs, executors, administrators, successors
(including but not limited to successors resulting from any corporate merger,
purchase, consolidation or otherwise of all or substantially all of the
business or assets of the Company) or assigns. 

  (d)                                    In
the event of a Change in Control, the Committee shall interpret the Plan and
make all determinations, construe any ambiguity, supply any omission, and
reconcile any inconsistency, deemed necessary or desirable for the Plan s
implementation.  The determination of the
Committee shall be conclusive.  The
Committee may obtain such advice or assistance as it deems appropriate from
persons not serving on the Committee. 
The Secretary or other appropriate officer of the Company shall, in the
event of any Change in Control, name as successor Plan Administrator any person
or entity (including, without limitation, a bank or trust company).  Following a Change in Control, the successor
Plan Administrator shall interpret the Plan and make all determinations deemed
necessary or desirable for the Plan s implementation.  The determination of the successor Plan
Administrator shall be conclusive.  The
Company shall provide the successor Plan Administrator with such records and
information as are necessary for the proper administration of the Plan.  The successor Plan Administrator shall rely
on such records and other information as the successor Plan Administrator shall
in its judgment deem necessary or appropriate in determining the eligibility of
a Participant and the amount payable to a Participant under the Plan. 

  (e)                                     The
Board, upon recommendation of the Committee, may at any time 

91  

amend or terminate the Plan provided that no amendment
or termination shall impair the rights of a Participant with respect to amounts
then credited to the Participant s Deferred Account, except with his or her
consent.  

  (f)                                       Each
Participant will receive a quarterly statement indicating the amounts credited
to the Participant s Deferred Account as of the end of the preceding calendar
quarter. 

  (g)                                    If
adjustments are made to outstanding shares of Common Stock as a result of stock
dividends, stock splits, recapitalizations, reorganizations, mergers,
consolidations and other changes in the corporate structure of the Company
affecting the Common Stock, an appropriate adjustment shall also be made in the
number and type of Units credited to the Participant s Deferred Account to
prevent dilution or enlargement of rights. The Committee s or Board s
determination as to what adjustments shall be made, and the extent thereof,
shall be final. 

  (h)                                    This
Plan and all elections hereunder shall be construed in accordance with and
governed by the laws of the State of Illinois. 

  (i)                                        Except
where otherwise indicated by the context, any term used herein connoting gender
also shall include both the masculine and feminine; the plural shall include
the singular, and the singular shall include the plural. 

  (j)                                        In
the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any
reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of
the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or
invalid provision had not been included. 

  (k)                                     Nothing
in the Plan shall be deemed to create any obligation on the part of the Board
to nominate any Nonemployee Director for reelection by the Company s
shareholders, or rights to any benefits not specifically provided by the Plan. 

  (l)                                        The
crediting of Units and the payment of cash under the Plan shall be subject to
all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any
governmental agencies as may be required. 

  (m)                                  The
Company may impose such other restrictions on any Units credited pursuant to
the Plan as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, restrictions
intended to achieve compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the
requirements of any stock exchange upon which Common Stock is listed, and with
any blue sky or other securities laws applicable to such Units. 

92     

(n)                                    With
respect to any Participants subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act,
transactions under the Plan are intended to comply with all applicable
conditions of Rule 16b-3 or its successors. 
To the extent any provision of the Plan or action by the Board fails to
so comply, it shall be deemed null and void to the extent permitted by law and
deemed advisable by the Board. 

93     

SUPPLEMENT
TO   

   DEERE
  COMPANY   

   NONEMPLOYEE
DIRECTOR DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   

   APPLICABLE TO AMOUNTS DEFERRED AFTER DECEMBER 31,
2004   

  The
following provisions will apply only to amounts deferred under the Plan after
December 31, 2004 and not to amounts deferred under the Plan that were both
earned and vested before January 1, 2005. Amounts deferred under the Plan prior
to January 1, 2005 will be subject to the terms of the Plan without regard to
this supplement. Except to the extent amended hereby, the terms of the Plan
shall continue to apply to amounts deferred pursuant to the Plan.  

  1.         The following definitions are added to  Section III ( Definitions ) .  

  (k)                                      Section
409A .  Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code and the regulations and other guidance thereunder 

  (l)                                         Unforeseeable
Emergency .  A severe financial
hardship to the Participant or his beneficiary resulting from an illness or
accident of the Participant or his beneficiary, the Participant s or beneficiary s
spouse, or a dependent of the Participant or beneficiary, loss of the
Participant s or his beneficiary s property due to casualty (including the need
to rebuild a home following damage to a home not otherwise covered by
insurance, for example, not as a result of a natural disaster), or other
similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of
events beyond the control of the Participant or his beneficiary .  

  2.                   Section VI(a) ( Elective
Deferral )   is restated in its
entirety as follows:  

  (a)                                     Participants
may elect to defer a part or all of their annual Compensation by making an
irrevocable deferral election in writing on a form provided by the Company and
delivered to the Company not later than the close of the calendar year
preceding the calendar year in which the deferrals are to commence.  Elective Deferrals will become effective on
the first day of the following calendar year, at which time they become
irrevocable.  Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence, any person who first becomes a Nonemployee Director during
a calendar year, may elect, before or within 30 days after his or her term
begins, to defer a part or all of his or her compensation that would otherwise
be payable to him or her during the remainder of such calendar year and each
succeeding calendar year until such election is modified or terminated as
provided herein, except that no such election shall be available to a
Nonemployee Director if prior to becoming eligible to participate in the Plan,
the Nonemployee Director was eligible to participate in any other arrangement
of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates that is an  account balance 
plan (as such term is 

94     

defined for purposes of Section 409A) for directors or
independent contractors, other than a separation pay arrangement.  A Participant may discontinue or modify
deferrals, or may change his or her investment choices, for future calendar
years by providing a written election delivered to the Company not later than
the close of the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which the changes
are to commence.  These changes will
become effective on the first day of the following calendar year.  

  3.                   Subsection VIII ( Payment of
Benefits )   is restated in its
entirety as follows:  

  (a)                                     The
value of a Participant s Deferred Account attributable to amounts deferred in
respect of any calendar year (including related investment returns) shall be
payable solely in cash, either in (i) a lump sum, or (ii) in up to ten equal
annual installments, in accordance with an election made by the Participant by
written notice delivered to the Company prior to the calendar year for which
the services to the Company are rendered. 
Such payment or payments shall be made or commence, as the case may be,
on the first business day of the calendar year following the year of the
separation from service as Director as determined by the Secretary of the
United States Treasury for purposes of Section 409A. 

  (b)                                     Notwithstanding anything else herein to the
contrary, to the extent that a Participant is a  key employee  (as defined by
Section 416(i) of the Internal Revenue Code) of the Company, no distribution
upon separation from service (including upon retirement or other
termination)  may be made before the
first business day of the calendar quarter that is six (6) months after such
Participant s date of separation from service, or, if earlier, the date of the
Participant s death, and any distribution that would be made but for
application of this provision shall instead be aggregated with, and paid together
with, the first distribution scheduled to be made after the end of such
six-month period (or, if earlier, the date of the Participant s death).  

  (c)                                     Any
lump sum payment shall be valued as of the end of the most recent calendar
month prior to the payment date.  The
amount of each installment payment shall be determined by dividing the
aggregate value credited to the Participant s Deferred Account (as of the end
of the most recent calendar month prior to the payment date) by the remaining
number of unpaid installments. 

  (d)                                    The
Company shall have the right to deduct from all payments under this Plan the
amount necessary to satisfy any Federal, state, or local withholding tax
requirements. 

  (e)                                     The
Committee, at its sole discretion, may alter the timing or manner of payment of
Deferred Amounts in the event that the Participant 

95     

establishes, to the satisfaction of the Board, that
there has occurred an Unforeseeable Emergency. 
In such event, the Committee may:  

  (i)                                        provide
that all or a portion of the amount previously deferred by the Participant
shall be paid immediately in a lump-sum cash payment; 

  (ii)                                     provide
that all or a portion of the installments payable over a period of time shall
be paid immediately in a lump sum; or 

  (iii)                                  provide
for such other installment payment schedules as it deems appropriate under the
circumstances. 

  It is expressly provided that, as determined under regulations of the
Secretary of the United States Treasury, the amount distributed shall not be in
excess of that amount which is reasonably necessary to satisfy the  Unforeseeable Emergency (which may include
amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of such
distribution(s)), after taking into account the extent to which such hardship
is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or
otherwise or by liquidation of the Participant s assets.   The Committee s decision in passing on the
occurrence of an Unforeseeable Emergency for the Participant and the manner in
which, if at all, the payment of Deferred Amounts shall be altered or modified
shall be final, conclusive and not subject to appeal.  

  (f)                                       Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary herein, this Plan does not permit the acceleration of
the time or schedule of any distribution under the Plan, except as permitted by
Section 409A. 

  4.         Section X ( Change in Control )   is restated in its entirety as follows:  

  The following acceleration and
valuation provisions shall apply in the event of a  Change in Control Event  as
defined under Section 409A.  

  (a)                                      In the event that a  Change in Control Event 
occurs, then the value of all Units credited to a Participant s Deferred
Account shall be converted to cash based on the  Change in Control Price  (as
defined in paragraph X(b)) and the aggregate amount credited to the Participant s
Deferred Account under the Plan shall be paid in one lump-sum payment as soon
as practicable following the date the Change in Control Event occurs, but in no
event more than 90 days after such date.  

  (b)                                     For purposes of this Section X,  Change in
Control Price  means the price established pursuant to Section 409A and related
regulations in effect at the time of the Change in Control Event, and absent
such rules and regulations, the  

96     

highest
price per share of the Common Stock paid in any transaction reported on the New
York Stock Exchange Composite Tape, or offered in any transaction related to a
Change in Control Event of the Company at: (i) the date the Change in Control
Event occurs; or (ii) such other date as the Committee may determine before the
Change in Control Event occurs.  

  (c)                                      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Plan, in the event of a Change in Control Event (i) the Plan may not be amended
to reduce the formulas contained in paragraph VII(e) which determine the rate
at which amounts equivalent to interest accrue with respect to cash amounts
credited to a Participant s Deferred Account, including cash amounts
attributable to the conversion of Units in a Participant s Deferred Account
pursuant to paragraph X(a), and (ii) the successor Plan Administrator referred
to in paragraph XI(d) shall determine the rates under the interest formulas
contained in paragraph VII(e).  

  5.         Subsection XI(b) ( Miscellaneous )   is amended by adding the following after the
initial   sentence thereof:  

   No Participant or beneficiary shall have any interest whatsoever in
any specific asset of the Company.  

  6.         Subsection XI(d) ( Miscellaneous )   is amended by replacing each occurrence of the
term  Change in Control  with  Change in Control Event .  

  7.         Subsection XI(e) ( Miscellaneous )   is amended by adding thereto:  

   Notwithstanding termination of the Plan, Deferred Accounts will be
paid at the times and in the manner provided for herein and shall not be
accelerated, unless (i) all arrangements sponsored by the Company that would be
aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A if the same Participant
participated in all such arrangements are terminated, (ii) no payments other
than payments that would be payable under the terms of such arrangements if the
termination had not occurred are made within 12 months of the termination of
such arrangements, (iii) all payments are made within 24 months of the
termination of the arrangements and (iv) the Company does not adopt a new
arrangement that would be aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A if the
same Participant participated in both arrangements, at any time within the five
years following the date of Plan termination.  

  Notwithstanding any provision in this Plan to the contrary the
Board,  the Committee or the Vice
President of Human Resources of the Company shall have the unilateral right to
amend or modify (i) this Plan, (ii) any Participant elections under this Plan
and (iii) the time and manner of any payment of benefits under this Plan in
accordance with Section 409A, in each case, without the consent of any
Participant, to the extent that the Board,  

97     

the Committee or the Vice President of Human Resources deems such
action to be necessary or advisable to avoid the imposition on any Participant
of adverse or unintended tax consequences under Section 409A, including
recognition of income in respect of any benefits under this Plan before such
benefits are paid or imposition of interest or penalties.  Any determinations made by the Board,  the Committee or the Vice President under
this Section shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons.   

98  

</EX-10.19>

<EX-12>
 4
 a06-25680_1ex12.htm
 EX-12

EXHIBIT 12     

DEERE  
COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES  

COMPUTATION OF
RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES  

  (In millions of
dollars)  

The computation of the
ratio of earnings to fixed charges is based on applicable amounts of the
Company and its consolidated subsidiaries plus dividends received from
unconsolidated affiliates.   Earnings 
consist of income before income taxes, the cumulative effect of changes in
accounting, discontinued operations and fixed charges excluding capitalized
interest.   Fixed charges  consist of
interest on indebtedness, amortization of debt discount and expense, an
estimated amount of rental expense that is deemed to be representative of the
interest factor, and capitalized interest.  

The Company has not
issued preferred stock.  Therefore, the
ratios of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends are
the same as the ratios presented above.  

*              Changed in prior periods for the elimination of the
discontinued health care operations.  

99  

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 5
 a06-25680_1ex21.htm
 EX-21

EXHIBIT 21     

   DEERE   COMPANY   

   AND
CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES   

   SUBSIDIARIES
OF THE REGISTRANT   

   As of
October 31, 2006   

  Subsidiary companies of
Deere   Company are listed below. 
Except where otherwise indicated, 100 percent of the voting securities
of the companies named is owned directly or indirectly by Deere   Company.  

Name of
  subsidiary   

Organized 
  under the 
  laws of   

Subsidiaries included in consolidated financial
  statements *  

Arrendadora John Deere S.A. de C.V.  

Mexico  

Banco John Deere S.A.  

Brazil  

Cameco do Brasil Comercial Ltda.  

Brazil  

Chamberlain Holdings Limited  

Australia  

Deere Capital, Inc.  

Nevada  

Deere Credit, Inc.  

Delaware  

Deere Credit Services, Inc.  

Delaware  

Deere Receivables Corporation  

Nevada  

Farm Plan Corporation  

Delaware  

FPC Financial fsb  

Federal  

FPC Receivables, Inc.  

Nevada  

GeoVantage, Inc.  

Delaware  

Industrias John Deere Argentina S.A.  

Argentina  

John Deere Agri Services, Inc.  

Delaware  

John Deere Agricultural Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

John Deere Bank, S.A.  

Luxembourg  

John Deere Brasil Ltda.  

Brazil  

John Deere Brasil Participacoes, Ltda.  

Brazil  

John Deere Capital Corporation  

Delaware  

John Deere Cash Management S.A.  

Luxembourg  

John Deere Central Services GmbH  

Germany  

John Deere Coffeyville Works, Inc.  

Delaware  

John Deere Commercial Worksite Products, Inc.  

Tennessee  

John Deere Construction   Forestry Co.  

Delaware  

John Deere Construction Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

John Deere Consumer Products, Inc.  

Delaware  

John Deere Credit Company  

Delaware  

John Deere Credit Inc.  

Canada  

John Deere Credit Limited  

Australia  

John Deere Credit Oy  

Finland  

John Deere-Distribuidora de Titulos e Valores
  Mobiliarios Ltda.  

Brazil  

John Deere Equipment Private Limited (98% owned)  

India  

John Deere Foreign Sales Corporation Limited  

Jamaica  

John Deere Forestry Group LLC  

Illinois  

John Deere Funding Corporation  

Nevada  

John Deere Iberica S.A.  

Spain  

John Deere India Private Limited  

India  

John Deere International GmbH  

Switzerland  

100     

John Deere Jialian Harvester Company Ltd.  

China  

John Deere Landscapes, Inc.  

Delaware  

John Deere Lanz Verwaltungs A. G. (99.9% owned)  

Germany  

John Deere Lawn   Grounds Care Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

John Deere Leasing Company  

Delaware  

John Deere Limited  

Australia  

John Deere Limited  

Canada  

John Deere Limited (Scotland)  

United Kingdom  

John Deere Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  

Mexico  

John Deere Polska Sp.Zo.o.  

Poland  

John Deere Receivables, Inc.  

Nevada  

John Deere S.A. de C.V.  

Mexico  

John Deere Thibodaux Works, Inc.  

Louisiana  

John Deere Tianjin International Trading Co. Ltd.  

China  

John Deere Torreon, S.A. de C.V.  

Mexico  

Maschinenfabrik Kemper GmbH   Company KG  

Germany  

Motores John Deere S.A. de C.V.  

Mexico  

Nortrax Inc.  

Delaware  

Nortrax Investments, Inc.  

Delaware  

The Vapormatic Company Limited  

United Kingdom  

Waratah Forestry Equipment Canada Ltd.  

Canada  

*                    One hundred and forty
consolidated subsidiaries and thirty-four unconsolidated affiliates whose names
are omitted, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not
constitute a significant subsidiary. 

101  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 6
 a06-25680_1ex23.htm
 EX-23

Exhibit
23     

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM   

We consent to the incorporation by reference in
Registration Statement Nos. 2-62630, 2-76637, 2-90384, 33-15949, 33-24397,
33-44294, 33-49740, 33-49742, 33-49762, 33-55551, 33-55549, 333-01477,
333-62665, 333-62669, 333-46790, 333-103757, and 333-132013 of Deere  
Company and subsidiaries ( Deere   Company ) on Form S-8 and in
Registration Statement No. 333-92134 of Deere   Company on Form S-3 of our
report dated December 18, 2006, relating to the financial statements and financial
statement schedule of Deere   Company, and management s report on the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, appearing in the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of Deere   Company for the year ended October
31, 2006.  

Deloitte  
Touche LLP  

  Chicago, Illinois  

  December 18, 2006  

102  

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 a06-25680_1ex31d1.htm
 EX-31

Exhibit
31.1     

CERTIFICATIONS   

I, R. W. Lane, certify that:  

1.  

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of
  Deere   Company;  

2.  

Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain
  any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
  necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
  which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
  covered by this report;  

3.  

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
  other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
  material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
  flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.  

The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
  are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
  procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
  internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
  13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  

(a) Designed such
  disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
  procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
  information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
  subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
  particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b) Designed such
  internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
  over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
  reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
  preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
  generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c) Evaluated the
  effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
  presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
  disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
  this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d) Disclosed in this
  report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
  reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
  (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that
  has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
  registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.  

The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
  have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
  financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
  the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
  functions):  

(a) All significant
  deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
  control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
  affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
  financial information; and  

(b) Any fraud, whether
  or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
  significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
  reporting.  

103  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 a06-25680_1ex31d2.htm
 EX-31

Exhibit
31.2     

CERTIFICATIONS    

I, M. J. Mack, Jr., certify that:  

1.  

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of
  Deere   Company;  

2.  

Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain
  any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
  necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
  which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
  covered by this report;  

3.  

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
  other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
  material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
  flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.  

The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
  are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
  procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
  internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
  13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  

(a) Designed such
  disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
  procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
  information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
  subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
  particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b) Designed such
  internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
  over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
  reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
  preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
  generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c) Evaluated the
  effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
  presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
  controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
  based on such evaluation; and  

(d) Disclosed in this
  report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
  reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
  (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that
  has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
  registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.  

The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
  have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
  financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
  the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
  functions):  

(a) All significant
  deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
  control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
  affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
  financial information; and  

(b) Any fraud, whether
  or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
  significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
  reporting.  

Date:  December
  19, 2006  

By:  

/s/ M. J. Mack, Jr.   

M. J. Mack, Jr.  

Principal
  Financial Officer  

104  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 9
 a06-25680_1ex32.htm
 EX-32

EXHIBIT
32     

STATEMENT PURSUANT TO 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
  AS REQUIRED BY 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In connection with the Annual Report of Deere  
  Company (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending October 31, 2006,
  as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
   Report ), the undersigned hereby certify that to the best of our knowledge:  

1.  

The Report fully complies with the requirements of
  section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934; and  

2.  

The information contained in the Report fairly
  presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
  operations of the Company.  

December 19, 2006 

/s/ R. W. Lane   

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

R. W. Lane  

December 19, 2006  

/s/ M. J. Mack, Jr.   

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

M. J. Mack, Jr.  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has
been provided to Deere   Company and will be retained by Deere  
Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
upon request.  

105  

</EX-32>

