<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061011_10-K_edgar_data_16732_0000893220-06-002166_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>831188</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>211454</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>24001</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>369167</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>79</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000893220-06-002166.hdr.sgml : 20061011
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061011161550
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000893220-06-002166
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		13
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060730
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061011
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061011

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CAMPBELL SOUP CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000016732
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FOOD & KINDRED PRODUCTS [2000]
		IRS NUMBER:				210419870
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0731

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03822
		FILM NUMBER:		061140205

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		CAMPBELL PL
		CITY:			CAMDEN
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08103
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8563424800

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		CAMPBELL PL
		CITY:			CAMDEN
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08103

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 DWD/mRpz6WQED8cLiLseJtvDF1/IaID1m9xS42JdIlqEARxOAy5SJgQSE71Bmuu/
 wedcS3tvtlu+asLL0uVIKw==

 0000893220-06-002166.txt : 20061011

10-K
 1
 w23178e10vk.htm
 CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED
STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) 
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY 

1 Campbell Place 
Camden, New Jersey 08103-1799 
Principal Executive Offices 

Telephone Number: (856) 342-4800  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class 
 Capital Stock, par value $.0375 

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 
 New York Stock Exchange  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.  Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
15(d) of the Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer    

Accelerated filer    

Non-accelerated filer     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). Yes     No    

As of January 27, 2006 (the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second
fiscal quarter), the aggregate market value of capital stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant was approximately $7,208,804,190. There were 403,417,924 shares of capital stock
outstanding as of September 19, 2006.

Portions of the Registrant s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held on
November 16, 2006, are incorporated by reference into Part III.

Campbell Soup Company  
 Form 10-K 

Table of Contents 

Part I  

Item 1. 

Business

1 

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors

3 

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments

4 

Item 2. 

Properties

4 

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings

5 

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

6 

Item X. 

Executive Officers of the Company

6 

Part II  

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Capital Stock, Related Shareowner Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities

7 

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data

8 

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition

9 

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

21 

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

22 

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

44 

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures

44 

Item 9B. 

Other Information

44 

Part III  

Item 10. 

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

44 

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation

45 

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareowner Matters

45 

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

46 

Item 14. 

Principal Accounting Fees and Services

46 

Part IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

47 

Signatures

49 

SUBSIDIARIES (DIRECT & INDIRECT) OF THE COMPANY    
     CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
     POWER OF ATTORNEY    
     CERTIFICATION OF DOUGLAS R. CONANT    
     CERTIFICATION OF ROBERT A. SCHIFFNER    
     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    
     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 1  

Part I

Item 1. Business 

The Company  Campbell Soup Company ( Campbell  or the  company ), together with its consolidated
subsidiaries, is a global manufacturer and marketer of high-quality, branded convenience food
products. Campbell was incorporated as a business corporation under the laws of New Jersey on
November 23, 1922; however, through predecessor organizations, it traces its heritage in the food
business back to 1869. The company s principal executive offices are in Camden, New Jersey
08103-1799.

Throughout fiscal 2006, the company continued its focus on the five previously announced strategies
designed to improve the company s sales growth and the quality and growth of its earnings. The five
strategies include:

Expanding the
company s well-known brands within the simple meal and baked
snack categories;

Trading consumers up to higher levels of satisfaction centering on convenience, wellness and
quality;

Making the company s products more
broadly available in existing and new markets;

Increasing margins by improving price
realization and company-wide productivity; and

Improving overall organizational
diversity, engagement, excellence and agility.

Consistent with these strategies, on July 12, 2006, the company announced the sale of its United
Kingdom and Irish businesses to Premier Foods plc. The sale, which was completed on August 15,
2006, better enables Campbell to focus on building its businesses within the simple meals and baked
snacks categories in markets with the greatest potential for growth.

The company s operations are organized and reported in the following segments: U.S. Soup, Sauces
and Beverages; Baking and Snacking; International Soup and Sauces; and Other. The segments are
discussed in greater detail below.

U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages  The U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages segment includes the following
retail businesses:  Campbell s  condensed and ready-to-serve soups;  Swanson  broth and canned poultry;
 Prego  pasta sauce;  Pace  Mexican sauce;  Campbell s Chunky  chili;  Campbell s  canned pasta, gravies,
and beans;  Campbell s Supper Bakes  meal kits;  V8  juice and juice drinks; and  Campbell s  tomato
juice.

Baking and Snacking  The Baking and Snacking segment includes the following businesses:  Pepperidge
Farm  cookies, crackers, bakery and frozen products in U.S. retail;  Arnott s  biscuits in Australia
and Asia Pacific; and  Arnott s  salty snacks in Australia.

International Soup and Sauces  The
International Soup and Sauces segment includes the soup, sauce and beverage businesses

outside of the United States, including Europe, Mexico, Latin America, the Asia Pacific region and
the retail business in Canada. The segment s operations include  Erasco  and  Heisse Tasse  soups in
Germany,  Liebig  and  Royco  soups and  Lesieur  sauces in France,  Devos Lemmens  mayonnaise and cold
sauces and  Campbell s  and  Royco  soups in Belgium, and  Bl  Band  soups and sauces in Sweden. In Asia
Pacific, operations include  Campbell s  soup and stock,  Swanson  broths and  V8  beverages. In Canada,
operations include  Habitant  and  Campbell s  soups,  Prego  pasta sauce and  V8  beverages. As previously
discussed, on August 15, 2006, the company completed the sale of its United Kingdom and Irish
businesses, which included  Homepride  sauces,  OXO  stock cubes, and  Batchelors, McDonnells  and  Erin 
soups. The results of these divested businesses have been reflected as discontinued operations in
the consolidated statements of earnings.

Other  The balance of the portfolio reported in Other includes Godiva Chocolatier worldwide and the
company s Away From Home operations, which represent the distribution of products such as soup,
specialty entrees, beverage products, other prepared foods and Pepperidge Farm products through
various food service channels in the United States and Canada.

Ingredients  The ingredients required for the manufacture of the company s food products are
purchased from various suppliers. While all such ingredients are available from numerous
independent suppliers, raw materials are subject to fluctuations in price attributable to a number
of factors, including changes in crop size, cattle cycles, government-sponsored agricultural
programs, import and export requirements and weather conditions during the growing and harvesting
seasons. To help reduce some of this volatility, the company uses commodity futures contracts for a
number of its ingredients, such as corn, cocoa, soybean meal, soybean oil, wheat and dairy.
Ingredient inventories are at a peak during the late fall and decline during the winter and spring.
Since many ingredients of suitable quality are available in sufficient quantities only at certain
seasons, the company makes commitments for the purchase of such ingredients during their respective
seasons. At this time, the company does not anticipate any material restrictions on availability or
shortages of ingredients that would have a significant impact on the company s businesses. For
additional information on the
company s ingredient management and for information relating to the impact of inflation on the
company, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition  and Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Customers  In most of the company s markets, sales activities are conducted by the company s own
sales force and through broker and distributor arrangements. In the United States, Canada and Latin
America, the company s products are generally resold to consumers in retail food chains, mass
discounters, mass merchandisers, club stores, convenience stores, drug stores and other retail
establishments. In Europe, the company s products are generally

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 2  

resold to consumers in retail food chains, mass discounters and other retail establishments. In
Mexico, the company s products are generally resold to consumers in retail food chains, club
stores, convenience stores and other retail establishments. In the Asia Pacific region, the
company s products are generally resold to consumers through retail food chains, convenience stores
and other retail establishments. Godiva Chocolatier s products are sold generally through a network
of company-owned retail boutiques in North America, Europe, and Asia, franchised third-party retail
boutique operators primarily in Europe, third-party distributors in Europe and Asia, and major
retailers, including department stores and duty-free shops, worldwide. Godiva Chocolatier s
products are also sold through catalogs and on the Internet, although these sales are primarily
limited to North America and Japan. The company makes shipments promptly after receipt and
acceptance of orders.

The company s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for
approximately 14% of the company s consolidated net sales during fiscal 2006 and 2005. All of the
company s segments sold products to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. or its affiliates. No other customer
accounted for 10% or more of the company s consolidated net sales.

Trademarks and Technology  As of October 1, 2006, the company owns over 7,100 trademark
registrations and applications in over 160 countries and believes that its trademarks are of
material importance to its business. Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks generally
are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained and have
not been found to have become generic. Trademark registrations generally can be renewed
indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. The company believes that its principal brands,
including  Campbell s, Erasco, Liebig, Pepperidge Farm, V8, Pace, Prego, Swanson, Arnott s,  and
 Godiva,  are protected by trademark law in the company s relevant major markets. In addition, some
of the company s products are sold under brands that have been licensed from third parties.

Although the company owns a number of valuable patents, it does not regard any segment of its
business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, the
company owns copyrights, both registered and unregistered, and proprietary trade secrets,
technology, know-how processes, and other intellectual property rights that are not registered.

Competition  The company experiences worldwide competition in all of its principal products. This
competition arises from numerous competitors of varying sizes, including producers of generic and
private label products, as well as from manufacturers of other branded food products, which compete
for trade merchandising support and consumer dollars. As such, the number of competitors cannot be
reliably estimated. The principal areas of competition are brand recognition, quality, price,
advertising, promotion, convenience and service.

Working Capital  For information relating to the company s cash and working capital items, see
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. 

Capital Expenditures  During fiscal 2006, the company s aggregate capital expenditures were $309
million. The company expects to spend approximately $325 to $350 million for capital projects in
fiscal 2007. The single largest planned fiscal 2007 capital project is the ongoing implementation
of the SAP enterprise-resource planning system in North America.

Research and Development  During the last three fiscal years, the company s expenditures on research
activities relating to new products and the improvement and maintenance of existing products for
continuing operations were $99 million in 2006, $90 million in 2005 and $88 million in 2004. The
increase from 2005 to 2006 was primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expense recognized
under SFAS No. 123R and expenses related to new product development. The increase from 2004 to 2005
was primarily due to currency fluctuations. The company conducts this research primarily at its
headquarters in Camden, New Jersey, although important research is undertaken at various other
locations inside and outside the United States.

Environmental Matters  The company has requirements for the operation and design of its facilities
that meet or exceed applicable environmental rules and regulations. Of the company s $309 million
in capital expenditures made during fiscal 2006, approximately $8 million was for compliance with
environmental laws and regulations in the United States. The company further estimates that
approximately $9 million of the capital expenditures anticipated during fiscal 2007 will be for
compliance with such environmental laws and regulations. The company believes that continued
compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations will not have a material effect on
capital expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of the company.

Seasonality  Demand for the company s products is somewhat seasonal, with the fall and winter months
usually accounting for the highest sales volume due primarily to demand for the company s soup and
sauce products. Godiva Chocolatier sales are also strongest during the fall and winter months.
Demand for the company s beverage, baking and snacking products, however, is generally evenly
distributed throughout the year.

Regulation  The manufacture and marketing of food products is highly regulated. In the United
States, the company is subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the Food and
Drug Administration, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Federal Trade Commission, as well
as various state and local agencies. The company is also regulated by similar agencies outside the
United States and by voluntary organizations such as the National Advertising Division of the
Council of Better Business Bureaus.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 3  

Employees  On July 30, 2006, there were approximately 24,000 full-time employees of the company.
Following the sale of the company s United Kingdom and Irish businesses on August 15, 2006, the
company had approximately 23,000 full-time employees.

Financial Information  For information with respect to revenue, operating profitability and
identifiable assets attributable to the company s business segments and geographic areas, see Note
5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Company Website  The company s primary corporate website can be found at
www.campbellsoupcompany.com. The company makes available free of charge at this website (under the
 Investor Center   Financial Reports   SEC Filings  caption) all of its reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including its annual
report on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and its Current Reports on Form 8-K. These
reports are made available on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after their filing
with, or furnishing to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following risks and
uncertainties could materially adversely affect the company s business, financial condition and
results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or
that the company currently deems immaterial also may impair the company s business operations and
financial condition.

The company operates in a highly competitive industry  The company operates in the highly
competitive food industry and experiences worldwide competition in all of its principal products. A
number of the company s primary competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other
resources. A strong competitive response from one or more of these competitors to the company s
marketplace efforts could result in the company reducing pricing, increasing capital, marketing or
other expenditures, or losing market share. These changes may have a material adverse effect on the
business and financial results of the company.

The company s long-term results are dependent on successful marketplace initiatives  The company s
long-term results are dependent on successful marketplace initiatives. The company s product
introductions and product improvements, along with its other marketplace initiatives, are designed
to capitalize on new customer or consumer trends. In order to remain successful, the company must
anticipate and react to these new trends and develop new products or processes to address them.
While the company devotes significant resources to meeting this goal, the company may not be
successful in developing new products or processes, or its new products or processes may not be
accepted by customers or consumers. These results could have a material adverse effect on the
business and financial results of the company.

The company may not properly execute, or realize anticipated cost savings or benefits from, its
ongoing supply chain, information technology or other initiatives  The company s success is partly
dependent upon properly executing, and realizing cost savings or other benefits from, its ongoing
supply chain, information technology and other initiatives. These initiatives are primarily
designed to make the company more efficient in the manufacture and distribution of its products,
which is necessary in the company s highly competitive industry. These initiatives are often
complex, and a failure to implement them properly may, in addition to not meeting projected cost
savings or benefits, result in an interruption to the company s sales, manufacturing, logistics,
customer service or accounting functions. Furthermore, the company has invested a significant
amount of capital into a number of these initiatives, which may have been more efficiently used if
the full cost savings or benefits are not realized. Finally, the company may not meet expected cost
savings from publicly-announced restructuring programs. Any of these results could have a material
adverse effect on the business and financial results of the company.

The company may be adversely impacted by the increased significance of some of its customers  The
loss of any of the company s large customers, such as Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., for an extended period
of time could adversely affect the company s business or financial results. In addition, the retail
grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass market retailers continue to become larger. In such
an environment, a large retail customer may attempt to increase its profitability by improving
efficiency, lowering its costs or increasing promotional programs. If the company is unable to use
its scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond to
these customer demands, the company s business or financial results could be negatively impacted.

The company s long-term results may be adversely impacted by increases in the price of raw
materials  The raw materials used in the company s business include tomato paste, beef, poultry,
vegetables, metal containers, glass, paper, resin and energy. Many of these materials are subject
to price fluctuations from a number of factors, including product scarcity, commodity market
speculation, currency fluctuations, weather conditions, import and export requirements and changes
in government-sponsored agricultural programs. To the extent any of these factors result in an
unforeseen increase in raw material prices, the company may not be able to offset such increases
through productivity or price increases. In such case, the company s business or financial results
could be negatively impacted.

The company may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully identify and execute
acquisitions and divestitures  From time to time, the company undertakes acquisitions or
divestitures. The success of any such acquisition or divestiture depends, in part, upon the
company s ability to identify suitable buyers or sellers,

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 4  

negotiate favorable contractual terms and, in many cases, obtain governmental approval. For
acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into the
company s existing operations. In cases where acquisitions or divestitures are not successfully
implemented or completed, the company s business or financial results could be negatively impacted.

The company s long-term results may be impacted negatively by political and/or economic conditions
in the United States or other nations  The company is a global manufacturer and marketer of
high-quality, branded convenience food products. Because of its global reach, the company s
performance may be impacted negatively by political and/or economic conditions in the United States
as well as other nations. A change in any one or more of the following factors in the United
States, or in other nations, could impact the company: currency exchange rates, tax rates, interest
rates, legal or regulatory requirements, tariffs, export and import restrictions or equity markets.
The company may also be impacted by recession, political instability, civil disobedience, armed
hostilities, natural disasters and terrorist acts in the United States or throughout the world. Any
one of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of
the company.

If the company s food products become adulterated or are mislabeled, the company might need to
recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured  The company
may need to recall some of its products if they become adulterated or if they are mislabeled. The
company may also be liable if the consumption of any of its products causes injury. A widespread
product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of
product inventory and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. The
company could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against it. A
significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage
to the company s reputation and a loss of consumer confidence in the company s food products, which
could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of the company.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 

None.

Item 2. Properties 

The company s principal executive offices and main research facilities are company-owned and
located in Camden, New Jersey. The following table sets forth the company s principal manufacturing
facilities and the business segment that primarily uses each of the facilities:

Principal Manufacturing Facilities 

Inside the U.S.  

Outside the U.S.   

California  
    Dixon (SSB) 
    Sacramento (SSB/OT) 
    Stockton (SSB)  
 Connecticut  
    Bloomfield (BS)  
 Florida  
    Lakeland (BS)  
 Illinois  
    Downers Grove (BS)  
 Michigan  
    Marshall (SSB)  
 New Jersey  
    South Plainfield (SSB)  
 North Carolina  
    Maxton (SSB/OT)   
SSB   U.S. Soup, Sauces
and Beverages  
BS   Baking and Snacking  
ISS   International
Soup and Sauces 
OT   Other

Ohio  
    Napoleon (SSB/OT) 
    Wauseon (SSB/ISS) 
    Willard (BS)  

 Pennsylvania  
    Denver (BS) 
    Downingtown (BS) 
    Reading (OT)  

 South Carolina  
    Aiken (BS)  

 Texas  
    Paris (SSB/OT)  

 Utah  
    Richmond (BS)  

 Washington  

    Woodinville (OT)  

 Wisconsin  

    Milwaukee (SSB)

Australia  
    Huntingwood (BS) 
    Marleston (BS) 
    Shepparton (ISS) 
    Virginia (BS) 
    Miranda (BS) 
    Smithfield (BS) 
    Scoresby (BS)  

 Belgium  
    Puurs (ISS) 
    Brussels (OT)  

 Canada  
    Listowel (ISS/OT) 
    Toronto (ISS/OT)  

 France  
    LePontet (ISS) 
    Dunkirk (ISS)

Germany  
    Luebeck (ISS) 
    Gerwisch (ISS)  

 Indonesia  
    Jawa Barat (BS)  

 Malaysia  
    Selangor Darul Ehsan (ISS)  

 Mexico  
    Villagran (ISS) 
    Guasave (SSB)  

 Netherlands  
    Utrecht (ISS)  

 Papua New Guinea  
    Port Moresby (BS) 
    Malahang Lae (BS)  

 Sweden  
    Kristianstadt (ISS) 

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 5  
  
 Each of the foregoing manufacturing facilities is company-owned, except that the Woodinville,
Washington facility, the Scoresby, Australia facility, and the Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia,
facility are leased. The Utrecht, Netherlands, facility is subject to a ground lease. The company
also operates retail confectionery shops in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia; retail
bakery thrift stores in the United States; and other plants, facilities and offices at various
locations in the United States and abroad, including additional executive offices in Norwalk,
Connecticut, New York, New York, and Homebush, Australia. The company is constructing a new
facility in Everett, Washington, to replace the existing Woodinville, Washington, facility. This
new facility will manufacture refrigerated soups and sauces. On August 15, 2006, as part of the
divestiture of the United Kingdom and Irish businesses, the following facilities were sold:
Ashford, King s Lynn and Worksop in the United Kingdom and Thurles in Ireland.

Management believes
that the company s manufacturing and processing plants are well maintained and are generally
adequate to support the current operations of the businesses.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings 

As previously reported, on March 30, 1998, the company effected a spinoff of several of its
non-core businesses to Vlasic Foods International Inc. ( VFI ). VFI and several of its affiliates
(collectively,  Vlasic ) commenced cases under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on January 29,
2001 in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware. Vlasic s Second Amended
Joint Plan of Distribution under Chapter 11 (the  Plan ) was confirmed by an order of the
Bankruptcy Court dated November 16, 2001, and became effective on or about November 29, 2001. The
Plan provides for the assignment of various causes of action allegedly belonging to

the Vlasic estates, including claims against the company allegedly arising from the spinoff, to VFB
L.L.C., a limited liability company ( VFB ) whose membership interests are to be distributed under
the Plan to Vlasic s general unsecured creditors.

On February 19, 2002, VFB commenced a lawsuit against the company and several of its subsidiaries
in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware alleging, among other things,
fraudulent conveyance, illegal dividends and breaches of fiduciary duty by Vlasic directors alleged
to be under the company s control. The lawsuit seeks to hold the company liable in an amount
necessary to satisfy all unpaid claims against Vlasic (which VFB estimates in the amended complaint
to be $200 million), plus unspecified exemplary and punitive damages.

Following a trial on the merits, on September 13, 2005, the District Court issued Post-Trial
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, ruling in favor of the company and against VFB on all
claims. The Court ruled that VFB failed to prove that the spinoff was a constructive or actual
fraudulent transfer. The Court also rejected VFB s claim of breach of fiduciary duty, VFB s claim
that VFI was an alter ego of the company, and VFB s claim that the spinoff should be deemed an
illegal dividend. On November 1, 2005, VFB appealed the decision to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit.

The company continues to believe this action is without merit and is defending the case vigorously.
In addition, although the results of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty, in
management s opinion, the final outcome of this proceeding will not have a material adverse effect
on the consolidated results of operations or financial condition of the company.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 6  

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

None.

Executive Officers of the Company 

The following list of executive officers as of October 1, 2006, is included as an item in Part III
of this Form 10-K:

Denise M. Morrison served as Executive Vice President and General Manager, Kraft Snacks division
(2001   2003) of Kraft Foods, Inc., and Executive Vice President and General Manager, Kraft
Confection division (2001) of Kraft Foods, Inc. prior to joining Campbell in 2003. Nancy A. Reardon
served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources, Comcast Cable Communications (2002   2004)
and Executive Vice President   Human Resources/Corporate Affairs (1997   2002) of Borden Capital
Management Partners prior to joining Campbell in 2004. Mark A. Sarvary served as Chief Executive
Officer, J. Crew Group (1999   2002) prior to joining Campbell in 2002. David R. White served as
Vice President, Product Supply   Global Family Care

Business (1999   2004) of The Procter   Gamble Company prior to joining Campbell in 2004. The
company has employed Douglas R. Conant, Anthony P. DiSilvestro, M. Carl Johnson, III, Ellen Oran
Kaden, Larry S. McWilliams, Robert A. Schiffner and Doreen A. Wright in an executive or managerial
capacity for at least five years.

There is no family relationship among any of the company s executive officers or between any such
officer and any director of Campbell. All of the executive officers were elected at the November
2005 meeting of the Board of Directors.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 7  

Part
II

Item 5. Market for Registrant s Capital Stock, Related Shareowner Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities 

Market for Registrant s Capital Stock 

The company s capital stock is listed and principally traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The
company s capital stock is also listed on the SWX Swiss Exchange. On September 19,

2006, there were 29,889 holders of record of the company s capital stock. Market price and dividend
information with respect to the company s capital stock are set forth in Note 24 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. In September 2006, the company increased the quarterly dividend
to be paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 to $0.20 per share. Future dividends will be
dependent upon future earnings, financial requirements and other factors.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

1 
       
     Includes (i) 6,009,300 shares repurchased in open-market transactions to offset the dilutive
impact to existing shareowners of issuances under the company s stock compensation plans, and
(ii) 19,952 shares owned and tendered by employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations on
the vesting of restricted shares. Unless otherwise indicated, shares owned and tendered by
employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations were purchased at the closing price of the
company s shares on the date of vesting. 

2 
       
     Average price paid per share is calculated on a settlement basis and excludes commission. 

3 
       
     On November 21, 2005, the company announced that its Board of Directors authorized the
purchase of up to $600 million of company capital stock on the open market or through
privately negotiated transactions through the end of fiscal 2008. As previously disclosed on
August 15, 2006, subsequent to the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the company
announced that its Board of Directors authorized the purchase of an additional $620 million of
company capital stock, which is expected to be completed in fiscal 2007. This new
authorization is in addition to the November 21, 2005 plan described above. Pursuant to this
new authorization, the company entered into accelerated repurchase agreements on September 28,
2006, with a financial institution to repurchase approximately $600 million of stock. 

4 
       
     Includes (i) 731,880 shares repurchased in open-market transactions at an average price of
$34.64 to offset the dilutive impact to existing shareowners of issuances under the company s
stock compensation plans, and (ii) 2,698 shares owned and tendered by employees at an average
price per share of $32.16 to satisfy tax withholding requirements on the vesting of restricted
shares. 

5 
       
     Includes 2,683,560 shares repurchased in open-market transactions at an average price of
$35.90 to offset the dilutive impact to existing shareowners of issuances under the company s
stock compensation plans. 

6 
       
     Includes (i) 2,593,860 shares repurchased in open-market transactions at an average price of
$36.87 to offset the dilutive impact to existing shareowners of issuances under the company s
stock compensation plans, and (ii) 17,254 shares owned and tendered by employees at an average
price per share of $37.61 to satisfy tax withholding requirements on the vesting of restricted
shares. 

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 8  

Item 6. Selected Financial Data 

Five-Year Review   Consolidated 

(All per share amounts below are on a diluted basis.)

In 2006, the company entered into an agreement to sell its United Kingdom and Irish businesses. The
sale was completed in August 2006. The results of operations of the businesses have been reflected
as discontinued operations for all periods presented.

As of August 1, 2005, the company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
(revised 2004)  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123R). Under SFAS No. 123R, compensation expense is
to be recognized for all stock-based awards, including stock options. Had all stock-based
compensation been expensed in 2005, Earnings from continuing operations would have been $616 and
earnings per share would have been $1.49. Net earnings would have been $678 and earnings per share
would have been $1.64. The pro forma reduction on earnings from continuing operations in prior
years would have been as follows: 2004   $28 or $.07 per share; 2003   $24 or $.06 per share; 2002
  $15 or $.04 per share.

In 2003, the company adopted SFAS No. 142 resulting in the elimination of amortization of goodwill
and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. The 2002 results have not been restated.

1 
       
     The 2006 earnings from continuing operations were impacted by the following: a $60 ($.14 per
share) benefit from the favorable resolution of a U.S. tax contingency; an $8 ($.02 per share)
benefit from a change in inventory accounting method; incremental tax expense of $13 ($.03 per
share) associated with the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings under the American Jobs Creation
Act; and a $14 ($.03 per share) tax benefit related to higher levels of foreign tax credits,
which can be utilized as a result of the sale of the businesses in the United Kingdom and
Ireland. The 2006 results of discontinued operations included $56 of deferred tax expense due
to book/tax basis differences and $5 of after-tax costs associated with the sale of the
businesses (aggregate impact of $.15 per share). 

2 
       
     2004 results from continuing operations included a pre-tax restructuring charge of $26 ($18
after tax or $.04 per share) related to a reduction in workforce and the implementation of a
distribution and logistics realignment in Australia. Results from discontinued operations
included an after-tax effect of $4 ($.01 per share) associated with a reduction in workforce. 

3 
       
     The 2003 fiscal year consisted of fifty-three weeks compared to fifty-two weeks in all other
periods. The additional week contributed 2 percentage points of the sales increase compared to
2002, and approximately $.02 per share to net earnings. 

4 
       
     2002 results included pre-tax costs of $20 ($14 after tax or $.03 per share) related to an
Australian manufacturing reconfiguration. 

Five-Year Review should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 9  

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition 

Overview 

Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high-quality, branded convenience
food products. The company is organized and reports operating results as follows: U.S. Soup, Sauces
and Beverages, Baking and Snacking and International Soup and Sauces, with the balance of the
portfolio, which includes Godiva Chocolatier worldwide and the Away From Home operations, reported
as Other. See also Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on
segments.

On August 15, 2006, the company completed the sale of its businesses in the United Kingdom and
Ireland for  460 million, or approximately $870 million, pursuant to a Sale and Purchase Agreement
dated July 12, 2006. The United Kingdom and Irish businesses include  Homepride  sauces,  OXO  stock
cubes,  Batchelors  soups and  McDonnells  and  Erin  soups. The purchase price is subject to certain
post-closing adjustments. The company has reflected the results of these businesses as discontinued
operations in the consolidated statements of earnings for all years presented. The assets and
liabilities of these businesses were reflected as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations
held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet as of July 30, 2006. The company will use
approximately $620 million of the net proceeds to purchase company stock. These purchases are
expected to be completed in 2007. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information.

Results of Operations 

2006  Net earnings were $766 million ($1.85 per share) in 2006 compared to $707 million ($1.71 per
share) in 2005. Earnings from continuing operations were $755 million ($1.82 per share) in 2006 and
$644 million ($1.56 per share) in 2005. (All earnings per share amounts included in Management s
Discussion and Analysis are presented on a diluted basis.)

There were several items that impacted the comparability of earnings:

compensation expense is to be recognized for all stock-based awards, including stock options. Had
all stock-based compensation been expensed in 2005, Earnings from continuing operations would have
been $616 million and earnings per share would have been $1.49. Net earnings would have been $678
million and earnings per share would have been $1.64 (See Notes 1 and 21 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements);

In the first quarter of 2006, the company recorded a non-cash tax benefit of $47 million
resulting from the favorable resolution of a U.S. tax contingency related to transactions in
government securities in a prior period. In addition, the company reduced interest expense and
accrued interest payable by $21 million and adjusted deferred tax expense by $8 million ($13
million after tax). The aggregate non-cash impact of the settlement on Earnings from
continuing operations was $60 million, or $.14 per share. (See Note 11 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements);

In the first quarter of 2006, a $13 million pre-tax gain was recognized due to a change in
the method of accounting for certain U.S. inventories from the LIFO method to the average cost
method. The impact on Earnings from continuing operations was $8 million, or $.02 per share.
Prior periods were not restated since the impact of the change on previously issued financial
statements was not considered material. (See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements);

In 2006, incremental tax expense of $13 million, or $.03 per share, was recognized associated
with incremental dividends of $294 million as the company finalized its plan to repatriate
earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act
(the AJCA);

In the fourth quarter of 2006, the company recorded a non-cash tax benefit of $14 million, or
$.03 per share, from the anticipated use of higher levels of foreign tax credits, which can be
utilized as a result of the sale of the company s United Kingdom and Irish businesses in
August 2006; and

The 2006 results of discontinued operations included $56 million of deferred tax expense due
to book/tax basis differences and $7 million pre-tax costs ($5 million after tax) associated
with the sale of the businesses. The aggregate impact of these items
was $.15 per share.

Table of Contents   

PAGE 10  
  
 The items impacting comparability are summarized below:

1 
       
     The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal due to rounding. 

The remaining improvement in 2006 earnings from 2005 was due to an increase in sales, an
improvement in gross margin as a percentage of sales, a lower effective tax rate, and higher
interest income, partially offset by higher administrative and marketing and selling costs.

2005  Earnings from continuing operations were $644 million ($1.56 per share) in 2005 compared to
$582 million ($1.41 per share) in 2004. Earnings from continuing operations between 2005 and 2004
were impacted by an increase in sales, lower corporate expenses and the favorable impact of
currency, partially offset by a decline in gross margin as a percentage of sales and an increase in
interest expense. The 2004 results were also impacted by the following:

A pre-tax restructuring charge of $26 million ($18 million after tax or $.04 per share)
related to a reduction in workforce and the implementation of a distribution and logistics
realignment in Australia. (See also the section entitled Restructuring Program and Note 6 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements);

A pre-tax gain of $16 million ($10 million after tax or $.02 per share) from a settlement of
a class action lawsuit involving ingredient suppliers; and

A pre-tax gain of $10 million ($6 million after tax or $.02 per share) from a sale of a
manufacturing site in California.

The gains were recorded in Other expenses/(income).

Had all stock-based compensation been expensed, Net earnings would have been $678 million and
earnings per share would have been $1.64 in 2005; Net earnings would have been $618 million and
earnings per share would have been $1.50 in 2004. Earnings from continuing operations would have
been $616 million ($1.49 per share) in 2005 and $554 million ($1.34 per share) in 2004.

Sales 

An analysis of net sales by reportable segment follows:

An analysis of percent change of net sales by reportable segment follows:

1 
       
     Represents revenue reductions from trade promotion and consumer coupon redemption programs. 

In 2006, U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages sales increased 5%. U.S. soup sales increased 4% as
condensed soup sales increased 5%, ready-to-serve soup sales increased 1% and broth sales increased
11%. The U.S. Soup sales growth was primarily driven by higher prices across the portfolio.
Condensed soup

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 11  

also benefited from the additional installation of gravity-feed shelving systems and increased
advertising. The ready-to-serve sales performance was positively impacted by the introductions of
 Campbell s Select Gold Label  soups in aseptic packaging and  Campbell s  Chicken Noodle, Tomato and
Vegetable soups in microwavable bowls, which were partially offset by the discontinuance of
 Campbell s Kitchen Classics  soups and a decline in  Campbell s Chunky  soups. The introduction of
 Campbell s  Chicken Noodle, Tomato and Vegetable soups in microwavable bowls, combined with sales
gains from  Campbell s Chunky  and  Campbell s Select  soups in microwavable bowls and  Campbell s Soup
at Hand  sippable soups, drove significant growth in the convenience platform.  Swanson  broth sales
growth was primarily due to volume gains of aseptically-packaged products and successful holiday
merchandising. In other parts of the business,  Prego  pasta sauces and  Pace  Mexican sauces delivered
solid sales growth. Beverage sales increased double digits driven by  V8  vegetable juices, which had
strong volume growth. The introduction of  V8 V-Fusion  juice beverages also contributed to sales
growth, while sales of  V8 Splash  juice beverages declined.

In 2005, U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages sales increased 3%. U.S. soup sales increased 5%,
driven by an 8% gain in condensed soup and a 12% increase in broth, partially offset by a 1%
decline in ready-to-serve soup. The U.S. condensed soup increase was driven by a double-digit
increase in eating soups, due in part to the combination of successful merchandising and kids
promotional marketing programs, increased advertising and higher prices. Cooking varieties of
condensed soup also achieved sales growth behind strong performance during the holiday season.
Condensed soup sales also benefited from gravity-feed shelving systems installed in retail stores.
Broth sales increased, driven by gains achieved through its expanded use in cooking and strong
consumer response to two new organic varieties in aseptic containers introduced earlier in 2005. In
ready-to-serve soup,  Campbell s Chunky  soup sales increased 7%. These gains were offset by declines
in sales of  Campbell s Select  soups and  Campbell s Kitchen Classics  soups. The  Campbell s Select 
soups decline of 15% was due to volume losses resulting from competitive activity. Sales of
microwavable soups were flat for the year, as double-digit growth of  Campbell s Chunky  and
 Campbell s Select  soups in microwavable bowls was offset by declines in  Campbell s Soup at Hand 
sippable soups. In other parts of the business, the launch of  Campbell s Chunky  chili in 2005 added
to sales gains.  Campbell s SpaghettiOs  pasta sales rose as consumers responded to the transition
from the  Franco-American  brand to the  Campbell s  brand and to new advertising. Sales of  Prego  pasta
sauces declined slightly, while sales of  Pace  Mexican sauces were flat for the year.  V8  vegetable
juice sales increased due to higher prices and improved volume, while sales of  V8 Splash  juice
beverages and  Campbell s  tomato juice declined.

In 2006, Baking and Snacking sales were flat versus 2005 as growth at Pepperidge Farm was offset by
declines in the Arnott s business. Pepperidge Farm reported sales increases in its bakery and
cookies and crackers businesses. Sales of bakery products increased due to the strong performance
of  Pepperidge Farm  whole grain breads. Sales gains in cookies and crackers were primarily due to
double-digit growth of  Pepperidge Farm Goldfish  snack crackers. Arnott s sales declined, primarily
due to a decline in the Australian snack foods business and the unfavorable impact of currency.

Baking and Snacking sales increased 8% in 2005 versus 2004. Pepperidge Farm contributed
significantly to the sales increase as a result of sales gains across bakery, cookies and crackers
and frozen, primarily due to higher volume and increased prices. The fresh bakery business
experienced double-digit growth as a result of expanded distribution and product improvements on
bagels and English muffins along with strong results from  Pepperidge Farm Farmhouse  breads and
 Pepperidge Farm Carb Style  breads and rolls. In cookies and crackers, sales growth was driven by
 Pepperidge Farm  Chocolate Chunk cookies, four new soft-baked varieties of cookies, and the
introduction of sugar-free cookies and  Whims  poppable snacks. In addition,  Pepperidge Farm Goldfish 
snack crackers delivered sales growth. Pepperidge Farm frozen product sales increased behind the
strong performance of pot pies, breads and pastry. Arnott s sales grew primarily due to currency
and volume gains. Arnott s achieved sales growth in each of its three businesses: sweet biscuits,
savory biscuits and salty snacks.

International Soup and Sauces sales increased 2% in 2006 versus 2005. In Canada, sales increased
due to the favorable impact of currency and a strong performance in ready-to-serve soup, which grew
double digits, aided by the introduction of  Campbell s Soup at Hand  sippable soups. Sales from the
Australian soup business increased double digits, primarily due to the performance of
ready-to-serve soup and broth. In Europe, sales declined primarily due to currency. Excluding the
impact of currency, sales grew slightly driven by the business in Belgium and higher sales of  V8 
vegetable juice.

International Soup and Sauces sales increased 7% in 2005 versus 2004, driven primarily by currency.
In Europe, strong sales gains of wet and dry soups in France and  Campbell s  wet soups in Belgium
also contributed to growth. In Asia Pacific, Australian beverages and broth delivered volume gains,
while sales increased in Asia, in part, from the launch of a new dry soup product targeting
breakfast consumption. Canada achieved volume growth due in part to its ready-to-serve soup
business which includes a new aseptic variety,  Campbell s Gardennay  soup.

In Other, sales increased 8% in 2006 versus 2005. Godiva Chocolatier sales increased primarily due
to same-store sales growth in all regions, new product introductions in the U.S., an

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 12  

increase in duty-free sales in Europe and new stores in Asia. Away From Home sales increased
primarily due to sales growth in soup, including refrigerated soups, and beverages.

In Other, sales increased 11% in 2005 versus 2004. Away From Home delivered strong sales growth,
led by premium refrigerated soups. Godiva Chocolatier s worldwide sales increased double digits
with North America, Europe and Asia all contributing to growth. In North America, Godiva achieved
double-digit same-store sales results driven by successful new products, including sugar-free
chocolates and the relaunch of truffles.

Gross Profit  Gross profit, defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold, increased by $178
million in 2006. As a percent of sales, gross profit was 41.9% in 2006, 41.0% in 2005 and 41.4% in
2004. The percentage point increase in 2006 was due to higher selling prices (approximately 2.0
percentage points), productivity improvements (approximately 1.8 percentage points), and a change
in the method of accounting for inventory (approximately 0.2 percentage points), partially offset
by a higher level of promotional spending (approximately 0.1 percentage points), mix (approximately
0.2 percentage points) and inflation and other factors (approximately 2.8 percentage points). The
percentage point decrease in 2005 was due to the impact of inflation and other factors
(approximately 3.1 percentage points) and a higher level of promotional spending (approximately 0.3
percentage points), partially offset by mix (approximately 0.2 percentage points), productivity
improvements (approximately 1.9 percentage points) and higher selling prices (approximately 0.9
percentage points).

Gross profit would have been $4 million lower in 2005 and 2004 had all stock-based compensation
been expensed.

Marketing and Selling Expenses  Marketing and selling expenses as a percent of sales were 16.4% in
2006, 16.0% in 2005 and 16.5% in 2004. Marketing and selling expenses increased 6% in 2006. The
increase was driven primarily by higher advertising (approximately 3 percentage points), higher
selling expenses (approximately 2 percentage points) and increased stock-based compensation
recognized under SFAS No. 123R (approximately 1 percentage point). In 2005, Marketing and selling
expenses increased 3% from 2004. The increase was driven by higher levels of advertising and
currency.

Marketing and selling expenses would have been $12 million higher in 2005 and $11 million higher in
2004 had all stock-based compensation been expensed.

Administrative Expenses  Administrative expenses as a percent of sales were 8.4% in 2006 and 7.8% in
2005 and 2004. Administrative expenses increased 12% in 2006 from 2005. The increase was due to
higher stock-based compensation recognized under SFAS No. 123R (approximately 5 percentage points),
higher compensation and benefit expenses (approximately 5 percentage

points), and an increase in costs associated with the ongoing implementation of the SAP
enterprise-resource planning system in North America (approximately 2 percentage points).
Administrative expenses increased by 5% in 2005 from 2004. Currency accounted for approximately 1
percentage point of the increase and costs associated with the implementation of the SAP
enterprise-resource planning system in North America and higher general administrative expenses
each accounted for 2 percentage points of the increase.

Administrative expenses would have been $25 million higher in 2005 and $26 million higher in 2004
had all stock-based compensation been expensed.

Research and Development Expenses  Research and development expenses increased $9 million or 10% in
2006 from 2005 primarily due to higher stock-based compensation recognized under SFAS No. 123R and
expenses related to new product development. Research and development expenses increased $2 million
or 2% in 2005 from 2004 primarily due to currency.

Research and development expenses would have been $4 million higher in 2005 and 2004 had all
stock-based compensation been expensed.

Other Expenses / (Income)  Other expense of $5 million in 2006 included the cost of acquiring the
rights to the  Pepperidge Farm Goldfish  trademark in certain non-U.S. countries and a write-down of
a trademark used in the Australian snack foods market.

Other income in 2005 of $5 million was primarily royalty income related to the company s brands.

Other income in 2004 of $13 million included a $16 million gain from the company s share of a class
action settlement involving ingredient suppliers, a $10 million gain on a sale of a manufacturing
site, other net income of $4 million, partially offset by a $10 million adjustment to the carrying
value of long-term investments in affordable housing partnerships and $7 million in expenses from
currency hedging related to the financing of international activities.

Operating Earnings  Segment operating earnings increased 5% in 2006 from 2005. Segment operating
earnings increased 6% in 2005 from 2004. Operating earnings would have been $45 million lower in
2005 and 2004 had all stock-based compensation been expensed.

Table of Contents   

PAGE 13

An analysis of operating earnings by reportable segment follows:

1 
       
     Contributions to earnings by segment included the
effect of a pre-tax fourth quarter 2004
restructuring charge of $26 million as follows:
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages  $8 million, Baking
and Snacking   $10 million, International Soup and
Sauces   $4 million, Other   $3 million and
Corporate   $1 million. 

Earnings from U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
increased 9% in 2006 from 2005. The 2005 earnings would
have been $4 million lower had all stock-based
compensation been expensed. The 2006 results included an
$8 million benefit from the change in the method of
accounting for inventories. The remaining increase in
earnings was primarily due to higher selling prices and
productivity gains, which were partially offset by cost
inflation and higher advertising.

Earnings from U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages increased
2% in 2005 versus 2004. The 2004 results included an $8
million restructuring charge. The remaining increase in
2005 was due to productivity improvements and higher
sales volume and prices, partially offset by cost
inflation and increased marketing. Earnings in 2005 and
2004 would have been $4 million and $6 million lower,
respectively, had all stock-based compensation been
expensed.

Earnings from Baking and Snacking decreased 6% in 2006
from 2005. The 2005 earnings would have been $8 million
lower had all stock-based compensation been expensed. The
2006 results included a $5 million benefit from the
change in the method of accounting for inventories. The
earnings results were driven by declines in the
Indonesian biscuit business and the Australian snack
foods business, and the unfavorable impact of currency,
partially offset by higher earnings at Pepperidge Farm.

Earnings from Baking and Snacking increased 19% in 2005
versus 2004. The 2004 results included a $10 million
restructuring charge. Currency accounted for 3 percentage
points of the earnings increase. The remaining increase
in earnings was due to sales growth in Pepperidge Farm
and improvement in the snack foods business in Australia,
partially offset by expenses associated with the
implementation of a new sales and distribution system in
Australia. Earnings in 2005 and 2004 would have been $8
million lower had all stock-based awards been expensed.

Earnings from International Soup and Sauces increased 1%
in 2006 from 2005. The 2005 earnings would have been $3
million lower had all stock-based compensation been
expensed. The increase in
earnings was primarily due to strong market performance
in Canada, partially offset by expenses associated with
improving the cost structure of the supply chain in
Europe and an organizational realignment in Europe due to
the sale of the United Kingdom and Irish businesses.

Earnings from International Soup and Sauces increased 12%
in 2005 versus 2004. The 2004 results included a $4
million restructuring charge. The remaining increase in
earnings was due to the favorable impact of currency (8
percentage points) and operating earnings growth in
Canada, partially offset by a decline in Latin America.
Earnings in 2005 and 2004 would have been $3 million
lower had all stock-based compensation been expensed.

Earnings from Other were $110 million in both 2006 and
2005. Prior year earnings would have been $6 million
lower had all stock-based awards been expensed. The
increase was primarily due to earnings growth in Godiva
Chocolatier.

Earnings from Other increased 9% in 2005 versus 2004. The
2004 results included a $3 million restructuring charge.
Currency accounted for 2 percentage points of the
increase. The remainder of the increase was due to the
strong sales growth in Godiva Chocolatier and Away From
Home. Earnings in 2005 and 2004 would have been $6
million lower had all stock-based compensation been
expensed.

Corporate expenses increased $39 million from $66 million
in 2005 to $105 million in 2006. The 2005 expenses would
have been $24 million higher had all stock-based
compensation been expensed. The remaining increase was
primarily due to costs associated with the ongoing
implementation of the SAP enterprise-resource planning
system in North America.

Corporate expenses decreased $21 million from $87 million
in 2004 to $66 million in 2005 due to lower costs
associated with ongoing litigation, lower adjustments
related to the carrying value of long-term investments in
affordable housing partnerships, and lower expenses from
currency hedging related to the financing of
international activities, partially offset by the gains
in 2004 related to the company s share of a class action
lawsuit involving ingredient suppliers and the sale of a
manufacturing site in California. Corporate expenses
would have been $24 million higher in 2005 and $22
million higher in 2004 had all stock-based compensation
been expensed.

Interest Expense/Income  Interest expense decreased 10% in
2006 from 2005, primarily due to a non-cash reduction of
$21 million associated with the favorable settlement of a
U.S. tax contingency and lower levels of debt, partially
offset by higher interest rates. Interest income
increased to $15 million in 2006 from $4 million in 2005
due to higher levels of cash and cash equivalents.

Table of Contents   

PAGE  14 

Interest expense increased 6% in 2005 from 2004
primarily due to higher interest rates, partially offset
by lower levels of debt.

Taxes on Earnings  The effective tax rate was 24.6% in
2006, 32.4% in 2005, and 33.1% in 2004. The reduction in
rate from 2005 to 2006 was attributable primarily to the
favorable resolution of federal income tax audits of $68
million, including $47 million related to
transactions involving government securities, an
increased deduction related to U.S. manufacturing
activities under the AJCA of $10 million, and higher
levels of foreign tax credits of $14 million, partially
offset by incremental tax expense associated with the
repatriation of non-U.S. earnings under the AJCA of $13
million. The reduction in the rate in 2005 from 2004 was
due to lower international taxes, which reflected a
one-time benefit in Australia related to a change in tax
law.

Discontinued Operations  The results of the company s
businesses in the United Kingdom and Ireland are
classified as discontinued operations. Results of the
businesses are summarized below:

The 2006 results included $56 million of deferred tax
expense, which was recognized in accordance with Emerging
Issues Task Force Issue No. 93-17  Recognition of
Deferred Tax Assets for a Parent Company s Excess Tax
Basis in the Stock of a Subsidiary That is Accounted for
as a Discontinued Operation.  Results also included $7
million pre-tax ($5 million after tax) of costs
associated with the sale of the businesses. The remaining
increase in earnings was primarily due to lower marketing
and administrative expenses, partially offset by the
decline in sales, the unfavorable impact of currency, and
a higher tax rate.

The decline in earnings from $65 million in 2004 to $63
million in 2005 was primarily due to lower gross margins
and a higher effective tax rate. The 2004 results
included a $6 million pre-tax restructuring charge ($4
million after tax).

Restructuring Program  A restructuring charge included in
Earnings from continuing operations of $26 million ($18
million after tax) was recorded in the fourth quarter
2004 for severance and employee benefit costs associated
with a worldwide reduction in workforce and with the
implementation of a sales and logistics realignment in
Australia. These programs are part of cost savings
initiatives designed to improve the company s operating
margins and asset utilization. Approximately 400
positions were eliminated under the reduction in
workforce program, resulting in a restructuring charge of
$17 million in Earnings from continuing operations. The
reductions represented the elimination of layers of
management,

elimination of redundant positions due to the realignment
of operations in North America, and reorganization of the
U.S. sales force. The majority of the terminations
occurred in the fourth quarter of 2004. Annual pre-tax
savings from the reduction are expected to be
approximately $37 million. The sales and logistics
realignment in Australia involves the conversion of a
direct store delivery system to a central warehouse
system, outsourcing of warehouse operations, and the
consolidation of the field sales organization. A
restructuring charge of $9 million was recorded for this
program. As a result of this program, over 200 positions
will be eliminated. The majority of the terminations
occurred in 2005. Annual pre-tax benefits are expected to
be approximately $12 million beginning in 2008. The cash
outflows related to these programs are not expected to
have a material adverse effect on the company s
liquidity.

See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further discussion of these programs.

A restructuring charge of $6 million ($4 million after
tax) was recorded by the United Kingdom and Irish
businesses associated with a reduction in workforce and
is included in Earnings from discontinued operations. See
also Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Net cash flows from operating activities provided
$1,226 million in 2006, compared to $990 million in 2005.
The increase was due primarily to a reduction in working
capital and an increase in earnings. Net cash flows from
operating activities provided $990 million in 2005,
compared to $744 million in 2004. The increase was due
primarily to a lower increase in working capital, an
increase in earnings, and lower cash settlements related
to foreign currency hedging transactions. Over the last
three years, operating cash flows totaled approximately
$3 billion. This cash generating capability provides the
company with substantial financial flexibility in meeting
its operating and investing needs.

Capital expenditures were $309 million in 2006, $332
million in 2005 and $288 million in 2004. Capital
expenditures are projected to be approximately $325 to
$350 million in 2007. Capital expenditures in 2006
included investments to increase the manufacturing
capacity for refrigerated soups, implement the SAP
enterprise-resource planning system in North America, and
implement certain quality and productivity projects in
U.S. manufacturing facilities. The increase in 2005 was
primarily driven by investments to increase manufacturing
capacity for microwavable products, implement the SAP
enterprise-resource planning system in North America,
increase manufacturing capacity for refrigerated soups,
and implement a new sales and distribution system in
Australia.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE  15 

Businesses acquired, as presented in the Statements
of Cash Flows, represents the acquisition of certain
brands from George Weston Foods Limited in Australia in
the first quarter of 2004.

Long-term borrowings in 2006 included the issuance of
$202 million of five-year variable-rate debt in Australia
due July 2011. The proceeds were used to repatriate
earnings pursuant to the AJCA. While planning for the
issuance of the debt, the company entered into interest
rate swap agreements to effectively fix the interest rate
on $149 million of the debt prior to its issuance.

As of July 30, 2006, the company had $300 million
available for issuance under a $1 billion shelf
registration statement filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission in June 2002. Under the registration
statement, the company may issue debt securities,
depending on market conditions.

There were no new long-term borrowings in 2005. Long-term
borrowings in 2004 included the issuance of $300 million
of ten-year 4.875% fixed-rate notes due October 2013. The
proceeds were used
to repay commercial paper borrowings and for other
general corporate purposes. While planning for the
issuance of these notes, the company entered into
treasury lock agreements with a notional value of $100
million that effectively fixed a portion of the interest
rate on the debt prior to issuance of the notes. These
agreements were settled at a minimal gain upon issuance
of the notes, which will be amortized over the life of
the notes. In connection with this issuance, the company
entered into ten-year interest rate swaps that converted
$200 million of the fixed-rate debt to variable.

In September 2003, the company also entered into $100
million five-year interest rate swaps that converted a
portion of the 5.875% fixed-rate notes due October 2008
to variable.

In April 2004, the company entered into a $50 million
interest rate swap that converted a portion of the 6.9%
fixed-rate notes due October 2006 to variable.

In May 2004, the company entered into a $50 million
interest rate swap that converted a portion of the 6.9%
fixed-rate notes due October 2006 to variable.

Dividend payments were $292 million in 2006, $275 million
in 2005 and $259 million in 2004. Annual dividends
declared in 2006 were $.72 per share, $.68 per share in
2005 and $.63 per share in 2004. The 2006 fourth quarter
rate was $.18 per share.

Excluding shares owned and tendered by employees to
satisfy tax withholding requirements on vesting of
restricted shares, the company repurchased 15 million
shares at a cost of $506 million during 2006, compared to
4 million shares at a cost of $110 million during 2005
and 2 million shares at a cost of $56 million during
2004. Of the 2006 repurchases, 6 million shares at a cost
of $200 million were under the Board of Directors
authorization announced on November 21, 2005 to purchase
up to $600 million

of company stock through fiscal 2008. The remaining
shares were repurchased to offset the impact of dilution
from shares issued under the company s stock compensation
plans. See  Market for Registrant s Capital Stock,
Related Shareowner Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities  for more information.

At July 30, 2006, the company had $1,097 million of notes
payable due within one year and $33 million of standby
letters of credit issued on behalf of the company. The
company maintained committed revolving credit facilities
totaling $1.5 billion, which were unused at July 30, 2006
except for $1 million of standby letters of credit.
Another $32 million of standby letters of credit was
issued under a separate facility. In September 2006, the
company entered into a $1.5 billion, 5-year revolving
credit facility that will mature in September 2011. This
facility replaced the existing $500 million 364-day
revolving credit facility that matured in September 2006
and the $1 billion revolving multi-year credit facility
that would have matured in September 2010. These
agreements support the company s commercial paper
programs.

The company is in compliance with the covenants contained
in its revolving credit facilities and debt securities.

Cash and cash equivalents were $657 million at July 30,
2006 and $40 million at July 31, 2005. The company
expects to maintain
higher cash balances until $600 million of notes payable
that matures in 2007 are repaid.

The company believes that foreseeable liquidity and
capital resource requirements, including notes payable
due within one year and cash outflows to repurchase
shares and pay dividends, are expected to be met through
cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flows from
operations, long-term borrowings under its shelf
registration and short-term borrowings, including
commercial paper. The company believes that its sources
of financing are adequate to meet its future liquidity
and capital resource requirements. The cost and terms of
any future financing arrangements depend on the market
conditions and the company s financial position at that
time.

On August 15, 2006, the company completed the sale of its
United Kingdom and Irish businesses for  460 million or
approximately $870 million. The company also announced
that its Board of Directors authorized using
approximately $620 million of the net proceeds of the
sales to purchase company stock. These purchases are
expected to be completed in 2007. On September 28, 2006,
the company entered into accelerated share repurchase
agreements with a financial institution to repurchase
approximately $600 million of stock. This share
repurchase authority is in addition to the three-year
$600 million share repurchase plan announced in November
2005 and the company s ongoing practice of buying back
shares sufficient to offset shares issued under incentive

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE  16 

compensation plans. The remaining net proceeds will
be used to pay taxes and expenses associated with the
sale, to settle foreign currency hedging contracts
associated with intercompany financing transactions of
the businesses, and to repay debt.

Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments 

Contractual Obligations  The following table
summarizes the company s obligations and commitments to
make future payments under certain contractual
obligations. For additional information on debt, see Note
18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating
leases are primarily entered into for warehouse and
office facilities, retail store space, and certain
equipment. Purchase commitments represent purchase orders
and long-term purchase arrangements related to the
procurement of ingredients, supplies, machinery,
equipment and services. These commitments are not
expected to have a material impact on liquidity. Other
long-term liabilities primarily represent payments
related to deferred compensation obligations and
postemployment benefits. For additional information on
other long-term liabilities, see Note 19 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

1 
       
     Includes capital lease obligations totaling $18
million, unamortized net premium on debt
issuances, unamortized gain on a terminated
interest rate swap and a loss on fair-value
interest rate swaps. For additional information on
debt obligations, see Note 18 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. 

2 
       
     Interest payments for notes payable, long-term
debt and derivative instruments are calculated as
follows. For notes payable, interest is based on
par values and rates of contractually obligated
issuances at fiscal year end. For fixed-rate
long-term debt, interest is based on principal
amounts and fixed coupon rates at fiscal year end.
For variable-rate long-term debt, interest is based
on principal amounts and rates estimated over the
life of the instrument using forward interest rates
and applicable spreads. Interest on fixed-rate
derivative instruments is based on notional amounts
and fixed interest rates contractually obligated at
fiscal year end. Interest on variable-rate
derivative instruments is based on notional amounts
contractually obligated at fiscal year end and
rates estimated over the instrument s life using
forward interest rates plus applicable spreads. 

3 
       
     Represents payments of cross-currency swaps and
forward exchange contracts. Includes payments of
derivatives settled in 2007 associated with the
sale of the businesses in the United Kingdom and
Ireland. 

4 
       
     Represents other long-term liabilities, excluding
deferred taxes and minority interest. This table
does not include postretirement medical benefits,
payments related to pension plans or unvested
stock-based compensation. The company made a $22
million voluntary contribution to a U.S. plan
subsequent to July 30, 2006. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Other Commitments 

The company guarantees approximately 1,500 bank loans to
Pepperidge Farm independent sales distributors by third
party financial institutions used to purchase
distribution routes. The maximum potential amount of the
future payments the company could be required to make
under the guarantees is $122 million. The company s
guarantees are indirectly secured by the distribution
routes. The company does not believe that it is probable
that it will be required to make guarantee payments as a
result of defaults on the bank loans guaranteed. See also
Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
information on off-balance sheet arrangements.

Inflation 

During the past three years, inflation, on average,
has been higher than previous years but has not had a
significant effect on the company. The company uses a
number of strategies to mitigate the effects of cost
inflation. These strategies include increasing prices,
pursuing cost productivity initiatives such as global
procurement strategies, and making capital investments
that improve the efficiency of operations.

Market Risk Sensitivity 

The principal market risks to which the company is
exposed are changes in commodity prices, interest rates
and foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, the
company is exposed to equity price changes related to
certain employee compensation obligations. The company
manages its exposure to changes in interest rates by
optimizing the use of variable-rate and fixed-rate debt
and by utilizing interest rate swaps in order to maintain
its variable-to-total debt ratio within targeted
guidelines. International operations, which accounted for
approximately 30% of 2006 net sales, are concentrated
principally in Australia, Canada, France and Germany. The
company sold its operations in the United Kingdom and
Ireland on August 15, 2006 as discussed in Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. The company manages
its foreign currency exposures by
borrowing in various foreign currencies and utilizing
cross-currency swaps and forward contracts. Swaps and
forward contracts are entered into for periods consistent
with related underlying exposures and do not constitute
positions independent of those exposures. The company
does not enter into contracts for speculative purposes
and does not use leveraged instruments.

The company principally uses a combination of purchase
orders and various short- and long-term supply
arrangements in connection with the purchase of raw
materials, including certain commodities and agricultural
products. The company may also enter into commodity
futures contracts, as considered appropriate, to reduce
the volatility of price fluctuations for commodities such
as corn, cocoa, soybean meal, soybean oil, wheat and
dairy. At

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE  17 

July 30, 2006 and July 31, 2005, the notional values
and unrealized gains or losses on commodity futures
contracts held by the company were not material.

The information below summarizes the company s market
risks associated with debt obligations and other
significant financial instruments as of July 30, 2006.
Fair values included herein have been determined based on
quoted market prices. The information presented below
should be read in conjunction with Notes 18 and 20 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

The table below presents principal cash flows and related
interest rates by fiscal year of maturity for debt
obligations. Interest rates disclosed on variable-rate
debt maturing in 2007 represent the weighted-average
rates at the period end. Interest rates disclosed on
variable-rate debt maturing in 2011 represent the
weighted-average forward rates for the term. Notional
amounts and related interest rates of interest rate swaps
are presented by fiscal year of maturity. For the swaps,
variable rates are the weighted-average forward rates for
the term of each contract.

Expected Fiscal Year of Maturity 

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE  18 

As of July 31, 2005, fixed-rate debt of approximately
$2.5 billion with an average interest rate of 6.17% and
variable-rate debt of approximately $446 million with an
average interest rate of 5.44% were outstanding. As of
July 31, 2005, the company had also swapped $875 million
of fixed-rate debt to variable. The average rate received
on these swaps was 5.42% and the average rate paid was
estimated to be 5.28% over the remaining life of the
swaps.

The company is exposed to foreign exchange risk related
to its international operations, including non-functional
currency inter-company debt and net investments in
subsidiaries.

The table below summarizes the cross-currency swaps
outstanding as of July 30, 2006, which hedge such
exposures, excluding contracts related to the divested
United Kingdom and Irish businesses. The notional amount
of each currency and the related weighted-average forward
interest rate are presented in the Cross-Currency Swaps
table.

Cross-Currency Swaps 

The cross-currency swap contracts outstanding at July
31, 2005 represented one pay fixed SEK/receive fixed USD
swap with a notional value of $32 million, a pay variable
SEK/receive variable USD swap with a notional value of
$32 million, a pay variable CAD/receive variable USD
swap with a notional value of $53 million, two pay fixed
CAD/receive fixed USD swaps with notional values of $120
million, two pay variable EUR/receive variable USD swaps
with notional values of $89 million, two pay fixed
EUR/receive fixed USD swaps with notional values of $269
million, a pay variable GBP/receive variable USD swap
with a notional value of $125 million, and three pay
fixed GBP/receive fixed USD swaps with notional values

of $270 million. The notional value of these swap
contracts was $990 million as of July 31, 2005 and the
aggregate fair value of these swap contracts was $(168)
million as of July 31, 2005.

The following contracts were outstanding at July 30, 2006
related to intercompany financing of the divested United
Kingdom and Irish businesses. These instruments were
settled in August 2006 in connection with the sale of the
business.

Cross-Currency Swaps 

The company is also exposed to foreign exchange risk
as a result of transactions in currencies other than the
functional currency of certain subsidiaries, including
subsidiary debt. The company utilizes foreign exchange
forward purchase and sale contracts to hedge these
exposures. The table below summarizes the foreign
exchange forward contracts outstanding and the related
weighted-average contract exchange rates as of July 30,
2006. The table excludes forward contracts used to hedge
the investment in and intercompany transactions
associated with the United Kingdom and Irish businesses
sold in August 2006.

Forward Exchange Contracts 

The company had an additional $13 million in a number
of smaller contracts to purchase or sell various other
currencies, such as the Australian dollar, Mexican peso,
Japanese yen, and Canadian dollar
as of July 30, 2006. The aggregate fair value of all
contracts was $2 million as of July 30, 2006. Total
forward exchange contracts outstanding as of July 31,
2005 were $402 million with a fair value of $3 million.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE  19 

The following forward contracts, which hedge
exposures related to the United Kingdom and Irish
businesses, were outstanding as of July 30, 2006 and
settled in August 2006 in connection with the sale. The
fair value of these contracts was $(5) million at July
30, 2006.

GBP Forward Exchange Contracts 

The company had swap contracts outstanding as of July
30, 2006, which hedge a portion of exposures relating to
certain employee compensation obligations linked to the
total return of the Standard   Poor s 500 Index, the
total return of the company s capital stock and the total
return of the Puritan Fund. Under these contracts, the
company pays variable interest rates and receives from
the counterparty either the Standard   Poor s 500 Index
total return, the Puritan Fund total return, or the total
return on company capital stock. The notional value of
the contract that is linked to the return on the Standard
  Poor s 500 Index was $18 million at July 30, 2006 and
$20 million at July 31, 2005. The average forward
interest rate applicable to the contract, which expires
in 2007, was 5.00% at July 30, 2006. The notional value
of the contract that is linked to the return on the
Puritan Fund was $10 million at July 30, 2006 and $9
million at July 31, 2005. The average forward interest
rate applicable to the contract, which expires in 2007,
was 5.24% at July 30, 2006. The notional value of the
contract that is linked to the total return on company
capital stock was $27 million at July 30, 2006 and $20
million at July 31, 2005. The average forward interest
rate applicable to this contract, which expires in 2007,
was 5.13% at July 30, 2006. The fair value of these
contracts was a $2 million gain at July 30, 2006 and a $1
million gain at July 31, 2005.

The company s utilization of financial instruments in
managing market risk exposures described above is
consistent with the prior year. Changes in the portfolio
of financial instruments are a function of the results of
operations, debt repayment and debt issuances, market
effects on debt and foreign currency, and the company s
acquisition and divestiture activities.

Significant Accounting Estimates 

The consolidated financial statements of the company
are prepared in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. The preparation
of these financial statements requires the use of
estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues
and expenses during the periods presented. Actual results
could differ from those estimates and assumptions. See
Note 1 to the

Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of
significant accounting policies. The following areas all
require the use of subjective or complex judgments,
estimates and assumptions:

Trade and consumer promotion programs  The company offers
various sales incentive programs to customers and
consumers, such as cooperative advertising programs,
feature price discounts, in-store display incentives and
coupons. The recognition of the costs for these programs,
which are classified as a reduction of revenue, involves
use of judgment related to performance and redemption
estimates. Estimates are made based on historical
experience and other factors. Actual expenses may differ
if the level of redemption rates and performance vary
from estimates.

Valuation of long-lived assets  Long-lived assets,
including fixed assets and intangibles, are reviewed for
impairment as events or changes in circumstances occur
indicating that the carrying amount of the asset may not
be recoverable. Discounted cash flow analyses are used to
assess nonamortizable intangible asset impairment, while
undiscounted cash flow analyses are used to assess other
long-lived asset impairment. The estimates of future cash
flows involve considerable management judgment and are
based upon assumptions about expected future operating
performance. Assumptions used in these forecasts are
consistent with internal planning. The actual cash flows
could differ from management s estimates due to changes
in business conditions, operating performance, and
economic conditions.

Pension and postretirement medical benefits  The company
provides certain pension and postretirement benefits to
employees and retirees. Determining the cost associated
with such benefits is dependent on various actuarial
assumptions, including discount rates, expected return on
plan assets, compensation increases, turnover rates and
health care trend rates. Independent actuaries, in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States, perform the required calculations
to determine expense. Actual results that differ from the
actuarial assumptions are generally accumulated and
amortized over future periods.

The discount rate is established as of the company s
fiscal year-end measurement date. In establishing the
discount rate, the company reviews published market
indices of high-quality debt securities, adjusted as
appropriate for duration. In addition, independent
financial consultants apply high-quality bond yield
curves to the expected benefit payments of the plans. The
expected return on plan assets is a long-term assumption
based upon historical experience and expected future
performance, considering the company s current and
projected investment mix. This estimate is based on an
estimate of future inflation, long-term projected real
returns for each asset class, and a premium for active
management. Within any given fiscal period, significant
differences may arise between the actual return and the
expected return on plan assets. The value of plan assets,
used in the calculation of pension expense, is determined
on a calculated method that recognizes 20% of the
difference between the actual fair value of assets and
the expected

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE  20 

calculated method. Gains and losses resulting from
differences between actual experience and the assumptions
are determined at each measurement date. If the net gain
or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of plan assets or
liabilities, a portion is amortized into
earnings in the following year.

When the fair value of pension plan assets is less than
the accumulated benefit obligation, an additional minimum
liability is recorded in Other comprehensive income
within Shareowners  Equity. As of July 30, 2006 and July
31, 2005, Shareowners  Equity includes a minimum
liability, net of tax, of $67 million and $238 million,
respectively.

Net periodic pension and postretirement medical expense
was $77 million in 2006, $67 million in 2005 and $65
million in 2004. Significant weighted-average assumptions
as of the end of the year are as follows:

Estimated sensitivities to annual net periodic
pension cost are as follows: a 50 basis point reduction
in the discount rate would increase expense by
approximately $12 million; a 50 basis point reduction in
the estimated return on assets assumption would increase
expense by approximately $10 million. A one percentage
point increase in assumed health care costs would
increase postretirement service and interest cost by
approximately $2 million.

Although there were no mandatory funding requirements to
the U.S. plans in 2006, 2005 and 2004, the company made a
$35 million contribution in 2006 and 2005 and a $50
million contribution in 2004 to a U.S. plan based on
expected future funding requirements. Contributions to
international plans were $17 million in 2006, $26 million
in 2005 and $15 million in 2004. Subsequent to July 30,
2006, the company made a $22 million voluntary
contribution to a U.S. plan in anticipation of future
funding requirements. Contributions to non-U.S. plans are
expected to be approximately $10 million in 2007.

See also Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional information on pension and postretirement
medical expenses.

Income taxes  The effective tax rate reflects statutory
tax rates, tax planning opportunities available in the
various jurisdictions in which the company operates and
management s estimate of the ultimate outcome of various
tax audits and issues. Significant judgment is required
in determining the effective tax rate and in evaluating
tax positions. Tax reserves are established when,

despite the company s belief that tax return positions
are fully supportable, certain positions are subject to
challenge and the company may not successfully defend its
position. These reserves, as well as the related
interest, are adjusted in light of changing facts and
circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit. While
it is difficult to predict the final outcome or timing of
resolution of any particular
tax matter, the company believes that the reserves
reflect the probable outcome of known tax contingencies.
Income taxes are recorded based on amounts refundable or
payable in the current year and include the effect of
deferred taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
recognized for the future impact of differences between
the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities and their respective tax bases, as well as
for operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax
rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in
which those differences are expected to be recovered or
settled. Valuation allowances are established for
deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that
a tax benefit will not be realized. See also the section
entitled Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements and
Notes 1 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for further discussion on income taxes, including the
impact of the AJCA, and FASB Interpretation No. (FIN) 48
 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. 

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 

In November 2004, SFAS No. 151  Inventory Costs   an
amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4  was issued. SFAS No.
151 is the result of efforts to converge U.S. accounting
standards for inventories with International Accounting
Standards. SFAS No. 151 requires abnormal amounts of idle
facility expense, freight, handling costs and spoilage to
be recognized as current-period charges. It also requires
that allocation of fixed production overheads to the
costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of
the production facilities. SFAS No. 151 was effective for
inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning
after June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS No. 151 in 2006
did not have a material impact on the financial
statements.

In October 2004, the AJCA was signed into law. The AJCA
provides for a deduction of 85% of certain non-U.S.
earnings that are repatriated, as defined by the AJCA,
and a phased-in tax deduction related to profits from
domestic manufacturing activities. In December 2004, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB
Staff Position FAS 109-1 and 109-2 to address the
accounting and disclosure requirements related to the
AJCA. The total amount repatriated in 2006 under the AJCA
was $494 million and the related tax cost was $20
million. In 2005, the company recorded $7 million in tax
expense for $200 million of anticipated earnings to be
repatriated. In 2006, the company finalized its plan
under the AJCA and recorded tax expense of $13 million
for $294 million of earnings repatriated.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE  21 

In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47  Accounting for
Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations   an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143.  This
Interpretation clarifies that a conditional retirement
obligation refers to a legal obligation to perform an
asset retirement activity in which the timing and (or)
method of settlement are conditional on a future event
that may or may not be within the control of the entity.
The obligation to perform the asset retirement activity
is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the
timing and (or) method of settlement. Accordingly, an
entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair
value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the
fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
The liability should be recognized when incurred,
generally upon acquisition, construction or development
of
the asset. The company adopted FIN 47 in 2006. The
adoption did not have a material impact on the financial
statements.

In July 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an interpretation of FASB
Statement No. 109.  FIN 48 clarifies the criteria that
must be met for financial statement recognition and
measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be
taken in a tax return. This Interpretation also addresses
derecognition, recognition of related penalties and
interest, classification of liabilities and disclosures
of unrecognized tax benefits. FIN 48 is effective for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The
company is in the process of evaluating the impact of FIN
48.

Earnings Outlook 

On September 11, 2006, the company issued a press
release announcing results for 2006 and commented on the
outlook for earnings per share for 2007.

Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results 

This Report contains  forward-looking  statements
that reflect the company s current expectations regarding
future results of operations, economic performance,
financial condition and achievements of the company. The
company tries, wherever possible, to identify these
forward-looking statements by using words such as
 anticipate,   believe,   estimate,   expect,   will  and
similar expressions. One can also identify them by the
fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or
current facts. These statements reflect the company s
current plans and expectations and are based on
information currently available to it. They rely on a
number of assumptions regarding future events and
estimates which could be inaccurate and which are
inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.

The company wishes to caution the reader that the
following important factors and those important factors
described in

Part 1, Item 1A and elsewhere in the commentary, or in the
Securities and Exchange Commission filings of the
company, could affect the company s actual results and
could cause such results to vary

materially from those expressed in any forward-looking
statements made by, or on behalf of, the company:

the impact of strong competitive response to the company s efforts to leverage its
brand power with product innovation, promotional programs and new advertising, and of
changes in consumer demand for the company s products;

the risks in the marketplace associated with trade and consumer acceptance of product
improvements, shelving initiatives and new product
introductions;

the company s ability to achieve sales and earnings forecasts, which are based on
assumptions about sales volume and product mix, and the impact of marketing and pricing
actions;

the company s ability to realize projected cost savings and benefits, including those
contemplated by restructuring programs and other cost-savings
initiatives;

the company s ability to successfully manage changes to its business processes,
including selling, distribution, product capacity, information management systems and the
integration of acquisitions;

the increased significance of certain of
the company s key trade customers;

the impact of fluctuations in the supply
and cost of energy and raw materials;

the risks associated with portfolio
changes and completion of acquisitions and divestitures;

the uncertainties of litigation described from time to time in the company s
Securities and Exchange Commission filings;

the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, tax rates, interest rates, equity
markets, inflation rates, recession and other external factors;
and

the impact of unforeseen business disruptions in one or more of the company s markets
due to political instability, civil disobedience, armed hostilities, natural disasters
or other calamities.

This discussion of uncertainties is by no means
exhaustive but is designed to highlight important factors
that may impact the company s outlook. The company
disclaims any obligation or intent to update
forward-looking statements made by the company in order
to reflect new information, events or circumstances after
the date they are made.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk  

The information presented in the section entitled
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
Operations and Financial Condition   Market Risk
Sensitivity  is incorporated herein by reference.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE  22 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

Consolidated Statements of Earnings  
(millions, except per share amounts)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal net earnings per share due to rounding.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE  23 

  Consolidated Balance Sheets  
(millions, except per share amounts)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE  24 

  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  
(millions)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Table of Contents   

PAGE 25

Consolidated Statements of Shareowners  Equity  
(millions, except per share amounts)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Table of Contents   
 
   PAGE 26 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

(dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Basis of Presentation  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
company and its majority-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions are eliminated in
consolidation. Certain amounts in prior year financial statements were reclassified to conform to
the current-year presentation. The company s fiscal year ends on the Sunday nearest July 31.
There were 52 weeks in 2006, 2005, and 2004.

On August 15, 2006, the company completed the sale of its United Kingdom and Irish businesses
to Premier Foods Investments Limited, HL Foods Limited and Premier Foods plc for  460, or
approximately $870, pursuant to a Sale and Purchase Agreement dated July 12, 2006. The company
has reflected the results of these businesses as discontinued operations in the consolidated
statements of earnings for all years presented. The assets and liabilities of these businesses
were reflected as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations held for sale in the
consolidated balance sheet as of July 30, 2006. See Note 2 for additional information on the
sale.

Revenue Recognition  Revenues are recognized when the earnings process is complete. This occurs
when products are shipped in accordance with terms of agreements, title and risk of loss
transfer to customers, collection is probable and pricing is fixed or determinable. Revenues
are recognized net of provisions for returns, discounts and allowances. Certain sales promotion
expenses, such as coupon redemption costs, cooperative advertising programs, new product
introduction fees, feature price discounts and in-store display incentives are classified as a
reduction of sales.

Cash and Cash Equivalents  All highly liquid debt instruments purchased with a maturity of three
months or less are classified as cash equivalents.

Inventories  In 2006, all inventories are valued at the lower of average cost or market. Prior
to 2006, substantially all U.S. inventories were valued based on the last in, first out (LIFO)
method. See also Note 13.

In November 2004, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 151  Inventory Costs  
an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4  was issued. SFAS No. 151 is the result of efforts to
converge U.S. accounting standards for inventories with International Accounting Standards.
SFAS No. 151 requires abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and
spoilage to be recognized as current-period charges. It also requires that allocation of fixed
production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the
production

facilities. SFAS No. 151 was effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS No. 151 in 2006 did not have a material
impact on the financial statements.

Property, Plant and Equipment  Property, plant and equipment are recorded at historical cost and
are depreciated over estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. Buildings and
machinery and equipment are depreciated over periods not exceeding 45 years and 15 years,
respectively. Assets are evaluated for impairment when conditions indicate that the carrying
value may not be recoverable. Such conditions include significant adverse changes in business
climate or a plan of disposal.

In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued FASB Interpretation No. (FIN) 47  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143.  This Interpretation clarifies that
a conditional retirement obligation refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement
activity in which the timing and (or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event
that may or may not be within the control of the entity. The obligation to perform the asset
retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the timing and (or)
method of settlement. Accordingly, an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair
value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be
reasonably estimated. The liability should be recognized when incurred, generally upon
acquisition, construction or development of the asset. The company adopted FIN 47 in 2006. The
adoption did not have a material impact on the financial statements.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets  Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not
amortized but rather are tested at least annually for impairment in accordance with SFAS No.
142  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized
over the estimated useful life and reviewed for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144
 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets.  Goodwill impairment testing
first requires a comparison of the fair value of each reporting unit to the carrying value. If
the carrying value exceeds fair value, goodwill is considered impaired. The amount of
impairment is the difference between the carrying value of goodwill and the  implied  fair
value, which is calculated as if the reporting unit had just been acquired and accounted for as
a business combination. Impairment testing for indefinite-lived intangible assets requires a
comparison between the fair value and carrying value of the asset. If carrying value exceeds
the fair value, the asset is reduced to fair value. Fair values are primarily determined using
discounted cash flow analyses. See Note 4 for information on goodwill and other intangible
assets.

Table of Contents   
 
   PAGE 27 

Derivative Financial Instruments  The company uses derivative financial instruments primarily
for purposes of hedging exposures to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange
rates, commodities and equity-linked employee benefit obligations. All derivatives are
recognized on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are
recorded in earnings or other comprehensive income, based on whether the instrument is
designated as part of a hedge transaction and, if so, the type of hedge transaction. Gains or
losses on derivative instruments reported in other comprehensive income are reclassified to
earnings in the period in which earnings are affected by the underlying hedged item. The
ineffective portion of all hedges is recognized in earnings in the current period. See Note 20
for additional information.

Stock-Based Compensation  In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004)
 Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123R), which requires stock-based compensation to be measured
based on the grant-date fair value of the awards and the cost to be recognized over the period
during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. The company
adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123R as of August 1, 2005. The company issues restricted
stock, restricted stock units, stock options, and beginning in fiscal 2006, performance
restricted stock.

Prior to August 1, 2005, the company accounted for stock-based compensation in accordance with
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  and
related Interpretations. Accordingly, no compensation expense had been recognized for stock
options since all options granted had an exercise price equal to the market value of the
underlying stock on the grant date. SFAS No. 123R was adopted using the modified prospective
transition method. Under this method, the provisions of SFAS No. 123R apply to all awards
granted or modified after the date of adoption. In addition, compensation expense must be
recognized for any unvested stock option awards outstanding as of the date of adoption. Prior
periods have not been restated. See also Note 21. Total pre-tax stock-based compensation
recognized in the Statements of Earnings was $85, $26, and $18 for 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Tax related benefits of $31, $10, and $7 were also recognized for 2006, 2005, and
2004, respectively. Amounts recorded in 2005 and 2004 primarily represent expenses related to
restricted stock awards since no expense was recognized for stock options. Stock-based
compensation associated with discontinued operations was not material.

SFAS No. 123R requires
disclosure of pro forma information for periods prior to the adoption. The pro forma
disclosures are based on the fair value of awards at the grant date, amortized to expense over
the service period. The following table illustrates the

effect on net earnings and earnings per share if the company had applied the fair value
recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123R to stock-based employee compensation.

1 
       
     Represents restricted stock expense. 

The pro forma expense impact on Earnings from continuing operations in 2005 and 2004 was
$28, or $.07 per share.

Use of Estimates  Generally accepted accounting principles require management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and
revenues and expenses. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Income Taxes  Income
taxes are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109  Accounting for Income Taxes.  Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future impact of differences between the
financial statement carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, as well as for operating loss and tax
credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are
expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a
change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.
Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not
that a tax benefit will not be realized.

In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act (the
AJCA) was signed into law. The AJCA provides for a deduction of 85% of certain non-U.S. earnings
that are repatriated, as defined by the AJCA, and a phased-in tax deduction related to profits
from domestic manufacturing activities. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
FAS 109-1 and 109-2 to address the accounting and disclosure requirements related to the

Table of Contents   
 
   PAGE 28 

AJCA. The total amount repatriated in 2006 under the AJCA was $494 and the related tax cost was
$20. In 2005, the company recorded $7 in tax expense for $200 of anticipated earnings to be
repatriated. In 2006, the company finalized its plan under the AJCA and recorded tax expense of
$13 for $294 of earnings repatriated.

In July 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.  FIN 48 clarifies the
criteria that must be met for financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions
taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This Interpretation also addresses derecognition,
recognition of related penalties and interest, classification of liabilities and disclosures of
unrecognized tax benefits. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2006. The company is in the process of evaluating the impact of FIN 48.

2 Discontinued Operations 

On August 15, 2006, the company completed the sale of its businesses in the United Kingdom
and Ireland for  460, or approximately $870, pursuant to a Sale and Purchase Agreement dated
July 12, 2006. The United Kingdom and Irish businesses include  Homepride  sauces,  OXO  stock
cubes,  Batchelors  soups and  McDonnells  and  Erin  soups. The purchase price is subject to certain
post-closing adjustments. The company has reflected the results of these businesses as
discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of earnings for all years presented. The
businesses were historically included in the International Soup and Sauces segment.

Results of discontinued operations were as follows:

The 2006 results included deferred tax expense of $56, which was recognized in accordance
with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 93-17  Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for a Parent
Company s Excess Tax Basis in the Stock of a Subsidiary That is Accounted for as a Discontinued
Operation  due to book/tax basis differences of these businesses as of July 30, 2006. The 2006
results also included $7 pre-tax ($5 after tax) of costs associated with the sale. The company
expects to recognize an estimated pretax gain of approximately $20 in 2007, subject to certain
purchase price adjustments, including an adjustment for working capital.

In 2004, the earnings
from discontinued operations included the after-tax effect of a restructuring charge of $4
associated with a worldwide reduction in workforce.

The assets and liabilities of the United Kingdom and Irish businesses are reflected as
discontinued operations in the consolidated balance sheet as of July 30, 2006 and are comprised
of the following:

The company expects to use $620 of the net proceeds to repurchase shares. On September 28,
2006, the company entered into accelerated share repurchase agreements with a financial
institution to repurchase approximately $600 of stock.

3 Comprehensive Income 

Total comprehensive income is comprised of net earnings, net foreign currency translation
adjustments, minimum pension liability adjustments (see Note 10), and net unrealized gains and
losses on cash-flow hedges. Total comprehensive income for the twelve months ended July 30,
2006, July 31, 2005 and August 1, 2004 was $993, $688 and $759, respectively.

The components of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), as reflected in the Statements
of Shareowners  Equity, consisted of the following:

Table of Contents   
 
   PAGE 29 

4 Goodwill and Intangible Assets 

The following table sets forth balance sheet
information for intangible assets, excluding goodwill,
subject to amortization and intangible assets not subject
to amortization:

Amortization was approximately $1 in 2006 and $2 in
2005 and primarily related to intangible assets of
discontinued operations. The estimated aggregated
amortization expense for each of the five succeeding
fiscal years is less than $1 per year. Asset useful lives
range from twelve to thirty-four years.

The company recognized an impairment loss of
approximately $2 in 2006 due to the business performance
of an Australian trademark used in the Baking and
Snacking segment.

Changes in the carrying amount for goodwill for the
period are as follows:

5 Business and Geographic Segment Information 

Campbell Soup Company, together with its consolidated
subsidiaries, is a global manufacturer and marketer of
high-quality, branded convenience food products. The
company manages and reports the results of operations in
the following segments: U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages,
Baking and Snacking, International Soup and Sauces, and
Other.

The U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages segment includes the
following retail businesses:  Campbell s  condensed and
ready-to-serve soups;  Swanson  broth and canned poultry;
 Prego  pasta sauce;  Pace  Mexican sauce;  Campbell s Chunky 
chili;  Campbell s  canned pasta, gravies, and beans;
 Campbell s Supper Bakes  meal kits;  V8  juice and juice
drinks; and  Campbell s  tomato juice.

The Baking and
Snacking segment includes the following businesses:
 Pepperidge Farm  cookies, crackers, bakery and frozen
products in U.S. retail;  Arnott s  biscuits in Australia
and Asia Pacific; and  Arnott s  salty snacks in Australia.

The International Soup and Sauces segment includes the
soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United
States, including Europe, Mexico, Latin America, the Asia
Pacific region and the retail business in Canada. See
also Note 2 for information on the sale of the businesses
in the United Kingdom and Ireland. These businesses were
historically included in this segment. The assets of
these businesses were reflected as discontinued
operations as of July 30, 2006. The results of operations
of these businesses have been reflected as discontinued
operations for all years presented.

The balance of the portfolio reported in Other includes
Godiva Chocolatier worldwide and the company s Away From
Home operations, which represent the distribution of
products such as soup, specialty entrees, beverage
products, other prepared foods and Pepperidge Farm
products through various food service channels in the
United States and Canada.

Accounting policies for measuring segment assets and
earnings before interest and taxes are substantially
consistent with those described in Note 1. The company
evaluates segment performance before interest and taxes.
Away From Home products are principally produced by the
tangible assets of the company s other segments, except
for refrigerated soups, which are produced in a separate
facility, and certain
other products, which are produced under contract
manufacturing agreements. Accordingly, with the exception
of the designated refrigerated soup facility, plant
assets are not allocated to the Away From Home
operations. Depreciation, however, is allocated to Away
From Home based on production hours.

The company s
largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its
affiliates, accounted for approximately 14% of
consolidated net sales in 2006 and 2005 and 12% in 2004.
All of the company s segments sold products to Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. or its affiliates.

Table of Contents   
 
   PAGE 30 

Business Segments 

1 
       
     Represents unallocated corporate expenses and
unallocated assets, including corporate offices,
deferred income taxes, prepaid pension assets and
investments. 

2 
       
     Contributions to earnings before interest and
taxes by segment included the effect of a $13
benefit due to a change in the method of accounting
for certain U.S. inventories from the LIFO method
to the average cost method as follows: U.S. Soup,
Sauces and Beverages   $8 and Baking and Snacking  
$5. 

3 
       
     Contributions to earnings before interest and
taxes by segment included the effect of a fourth
quarter 2004 restructuring charge of $26 as
follows: U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages   $8,
Baking and Snacking   $10, International Soup
and Sauces   $4, Other   $3 and Corporate   $1. 

Geographic Area Information 

Information about operations in different geographic
areas is as follows:

Transfers between geographic areas are recorded at
cost plus markup or at market. Identifiable assets are
those assets, including goodwill, which are identified
with the operations in each geographic region. The
restructuring charge of $26 in 2004 was allocated to the
geographic regions as follows: United States  
$12, Europe   $3, Australia/Asia Pacific
  $10, and Other countries   $1.

6 Restructuring Program 

A restructuring charge included in Earnings from
continuing operations of $26 ($18 after tax) was recorded
in the fourth quarter 2004 for severance and employee
benefit costs associated with a worldwide reduction in
workforce and with the implementation of a sales and
logistics realignment in Australia. These programs are
part of cost savings initiatives designed to improve the
company s operating margins and asset utilization.
Approximately 400 positions were eliminated under the
reduction in workforce program, resulting in a
restructuring charge of $17 in Earnings from continuing
operations. The reductions represented the elimination of
layers of management, elimination of redundant positions
due to the realignment of operations in North America,

Table of Contents   
 
   PAGE 31 

and reorganization of the U.S. sales force. The majority
of the terminations occurred in the fourth quarter of
2004. The sales and logistics realignment in Australia
involves the conversion of a direct store delivery system
to a central warehouse system, outsourcing of warehouse
operations, and the consolidation of the field sales
organization. As a result of this program, over 200
positions will be eliminated. A restructuring charge of
$9 was recorded for this program. The majority of the
terminations occurred in 2005.

A restructuring charge of $6 ($4 after tax) was recorded
by the United Kingdom and Irish businesses associated
with a reduction in workforce and is included in Earnings
from discontinued operations. See also Note 2.

A summary of restructuring reserves at July 30, 2006 and
related activity is as follows:

7 Other Expenses/(Income) 

Adjustments to long-term investments represent a
non-cash write-down to estimated fair market value of
investments in affordable housing partnerships.

8 Interest Expense 

In 2006, a non-cash reduction of $21 was recognized
in connection with the favorable settlement of a U.S. tax
contingency.

9 Acquisitions 

In the first quarter 2004, the company acquired
certain Australian chocolate biscuit brands for
approximately $9. These brands are included in the Baking
and Snacking segment.

10 Pension and Postretirement Benefits 

Pension Benefits  Substantially all of the company s
U.S. and certain non-U.S. employees are covered by
noncontributory defined benefit pension plans. In 1999,
the company implemented significant amendments to certain
U.S. plans. Under a new formula, retirement benefits are
determined based on percentages of annual pay and age. To
minimize the
impact of converting to the new formula, service and
earnings credit continues to accrue for active employees
participating in the plans under the formula prior to the
amendments through the year 2014. Employees will receive
the benefit from either the new or old formula, whichever
is higher. Benefits become vested upon the completion of
five years of service. Benefits are paid from funds
previously provided to trustees and insurance companies
or are paid directly by the company from general funds.
Plan assets consist primarily of investments in equities,
fixed income securities, and real estate.

Postretirement Benefits  The company provides
postretirement benefits including health care and life
insurance to substantially all retired U.S. employees and
their dependents. In 1999, changes were made to the
postretirement benefits offered to certain U.S.
employees. Participants who were not receiving
postretirement benefits as of May 1, 1999 will no longer
be eligible to receive such benefits in the future, but
the company will provide access to health care coverage
for non-eligible future retirees on a group basis. Costs
will be paid by the participants. To preserve the
economic benefits for employees near retirement as of May
1, 1999, participants who were at least age 55 and had at
least 10 years of continuous service remain eligible for
postretirement benefits.

In 2005, the company established retiree medical account
benefits for eligible U.S. retirees, intended to provide
reimbursement for eligible health care expenses.

The company uses the fiscal year end as the measurement
date for the benefit plans.

Table of Contents   
 
   PAGE 32 

Components of net periodic benefit cost: 

Pension expense of $8, $11 and $12 for 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively, was recorded by the United Kingdom
and Irish businesses and is included in Earnings from
discontinued operations. See also Note 2. The special
termination benefits relate to discontinued operations.

Change in benefit obligation: 

Change in the fair value of pension plan assets: 

Funded status as recognized
in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets: 

Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets: 

The accumulated benefit obligation for all pension
plans was $1,961 at July 30, 2006 and $1,945 at July 31,
2005. The projected benefit obligation, accumulated
benefit obligation, and fair value of plan assets for the
pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in
excess of plan assets were $455, $392 and $278,
respectively, as of July 30, 2006 and $1,598, $1,444 and
$1,292, respectively, as of July 31, 2005. The balance in
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) included
$22 in 2006 related to the discontinued operations.

The current portion of nonpension postretirement benefits
included in Accrued liabilities was $27 at July 30, 2006
and July 31, 2005.

Increase (decrease) in minimum pension liability
included in other comprehensive income: 

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine
benefit obligations at the end of the year: 

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the years ended: 

The discount rate used to determine net periodic
postretirement expense was 5.5% in 2006, 6.25% in 2005
and 6.5% in 2004.

Table of Contents   
 
   PAGE 33 

The expected rate of return on assets for the company s
global plans is a weighted average of the expected rates
of return selected for the various countries where the
company has funded pension plans. These rates of return
are set annually and are based upon the long-term
historical investment performance of the plans and an
estimate of future long-term investment returns for the
projected asset allocation.

Assumed health care cost trend rates at the end of the year: 

A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care
costs would have the following effects on 2006 reported
amounts:

Obligations related to non-U.S. postretirement
benefit plans are not significant, since these benefits
are generally provided through government-sponsored
plans.

Plan Assets 

The company s year-end pension plan weighted-average
asset allocations by category were:

The fundamental goal underlying the pension plans 
investment policy is to ensure that the assets of the
plans are invested in a prudent manner to meet the
obligations of the plans as these obligations come due.
Investment practices must comply with applicable laws and
regulations.

The company s investment strategy is based on an
expectation that equity securities will outperform debt
securities over the long term. Accordingly, in order to
maximize the return on assets, a majority of assets are
invested in equities. Additional asset classes with
dissimilar expected rates of return, return volatility,
and correlations of returns are utilized to reduce risk
by providing diversification relative to equities.
Investments within each asset

class are also diversified to further reduce the impact
of losses in single investments. The use of derivative
instruments is permitted where appropriate and necessary
to achieve overall investment policy objectives and asset
class targets.

The company establishes strategic asset allocation
percentage targets and appropriate benchmarks for each
significant asset class to obtain a prudent balance
between return and risk. The interaction between plan
assets and benefit obligations is periodically studied to
assist in the establishment of strategic asset allocation
targets.

Estimated future benefit payments are as follows: 

The benefit payments include payments from funded and
unfunded plans.

Estimated future Medicare subsidy receipts are $3   $4
annually from 2007 through 2011, and $21 for the period
2012 through 2016.

The company made a voluntary
contribution of $22 to a U.S. pension plan subsequent to
July 30, 2006. The company is not required to make
additional contributions to the U.S. plans in 2007.
Contributions to non-U.S. plans are expected to be
approximately $10 in 2007.

Savings Plan  The company sponsors employee savings plans
which cover substantially all U.S. employees. After one
year of
continuous service, the company historically matched 50%
of employee contributions up to 5% of compensation.
Effective January 1, 2004, the company increased the
amount of matching contribution from 50% to 60% of the
employee contributions. Amounts charged to Costs and
expenses were $16 in 2006 and $14 in 2005 and 2004.

Table of Contents   
 
   PAGE 34 

11 Taxes on Earnings 

The provision for income taxes on earnings from
continuing operations consists of the following:

The following is a reconciliation of the effective
income tax rate on continuing operations with the U.S.
federal statutory income tax rate:

The tax effect of international items included a $14
deferred tax benefit related to foreign tax credits,
which can be utilized as a result of the sale of the
United Kingdom and Irish businesses. See also Note 2 for
information on the divestiture.

The company received an Examination Report from the
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on December 23, 2002,
which included a challenge to the treatment of gains and
interest deductions claimed in the company s fiscal 1995
federal income tax return, relating to transactions
involving government securities. If the proposed
adjustment were upheld, it would have required the
company to pay a net amount of over $100 in taxes,
accumulated interest and penalties. The company had
maintained a reserve for a portion of this contingency.
In November 2005, the company negotiated a settlement of
this matter with the IRS. As a result of

the settlement, in the first quarter of 2006 the company
adjusted tax reserves and recorded a $47 tax benefit. In
addition, the company reduced interest expense and
accrued interest payable by $21 and adjusted deferred tax
expense by $8 ($13 after tax). The aggregate non-cash
impact of the settlement on net earnings was $60, or $.14
per share. The settlement did not have a material impact
on the company s consolidated cash flow. In 2006, the
company also recognized an additional tax benefit of $21
related to the resolution of certain U.S. tax issues for
open tax years through 2001.

See also Note 1 for additional information on the tax
impact of the repatriation of earnings under the AJCA.

Deferred tax liabilities and assets are comprised of the following:

At July 30, 2006, non-U.S. subsidiaries of the
company have tax loss carryforwards of approximately $80.
Of these carryfor-wards, $5 expire through 2011 and $75
may be carried forward indefinitely. The current
statutory tax rates in these countries range from 18% to
39%.

The company has undistributed earnings of non-U.S.
subsidiaries of approximately $549. U.S. income taxes
have not been provided on undistributed earnings, which
are deemed to be permanently reinvested. It is not
practical to estimate the tax liability that might be
incurred if such earnings were remitted to the U.S.

12 Accounts Receivable 

Table of Contents   

PAGE 35

13 Inventories 

As of August 1, 2005, the company changed the method
of accounting for certain U.S. inventories from the LIFO
method to the average cost method. Approximately 55% of
inventory in 2005 was accounted for on the LIFO method of
determining cost.

The company believes that the average
cost method of accounting for U.S. inventories is
preferable and will improve financial reporting by better
matching revenues and expenses as average cost reflects
the physical flow of inventory and current cost. In
addition, the change from LIFO to average cost will
enhance the comparability of the company s financial
statements with peer companies since the average cost
method is consistent with methods used in the industry.
The impact of the change was a pre-tax $13 benefit ($8
after tax or $.02 per share). Prior periods were not
restated since the impact of the change on previously
issued financial statements was not considered material.

14 Other Current Assets 

15 Plant Assets 

Depreciation expense was $286 in 2006, $277 in 2005
and $258 in 2004. Depreciation expense of continuing
operations was $272 in 2006, $261 in 2005 and $237 in
2004. Buildings are depreciated over periods ranging from
10 to 45 years. Machinery and equipment are depreciated
over periods generally ranging

from 2 to 15 years. Approximately $152 of capital
expenditures is required to complete projects in progress
at July 30, 2006.

16 Other Assets 

Investments consist of several limited partnership
interests in affordable housing partnership funds. These
investments have generated significant tax credits. The
company s ownership primarily ranges from approximately
12% to 19%.

17 Accrued Liabilities 

The fair value of derivatives included $78 related to
hedging intercompany financing of the United Kingdom and
Irish businesses. These instruments were settled upon
completion of the sale of the businesses in August 2006.

18 Notes Payable and Long-term Debt 

Notes payable consists of the following:

Commercial paper had a weighted-average interest rate
of 6.00% and 5.34% at July 30, 2006 and July 31, 2005,
respectively.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 36 
  
 The company has two committed revolving credit facilities
totaling $1,500 that support commercial paper borrowings
and remain unused at July 30, 2006, except for $1 of
standby letters of credit. Another $32 of standby letters
of credit was issued under a separate facility.

Long-term Debt consists of the following:

The fair value of the company s long-term debt
including the current portion of long-term debt in Notes
payable was $2,786 at July 30, 2006 and $2,727 at July
31, 2005.

The company has $300 of long-term debt available to issue
as of July 30, 2006 under a shelf registration statement
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Principal amounts of debt mature as follows: 2007 $1,097
(in current liabilities); 2008  2009 $303; 2010 
2011 $909 and beyond $896.

19 Other Liabilities 

The deferred compensation plan is an unfunded plan
maintained for the purpose of providing the company s
directors and certain of its executives the opportunity
to defer a portion of their compensation. All forms of
compensation contributed to the deferred compensation
plan are accounted for in accordance with the underlying
program. Contributions are credited to an investment
account in the participant s name, although no funds are
actually contributed to the investment account and no
investment choices are actually purchased. Four
investment choices are available, including: (1) a book
account which tracks the total return on company stock;
(2) a book account that

tracks performance of Fidelity s Spartan U.S. Equity
Index Fund; (3) a book account which tracks the
performance of Fidelity s Puritan Fund; and (4) a book
account that credits
interest based on the Wall Street Journal indexed prime
rate. Participants can reallocate investments daily and
are entitled to the gains and losses on investment
funds. The company recognizes an amount in the Statements
of Earnings for the market appreciation/depreciation of
each fund, as appropriate.

20 Financial Instruments 

The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents,
accounts and notes receivable, accounts payable and
short-term debt approximate fair value. The fair values
of long-term debt, as indicated in Note 18, and
derivative financial instruments are based on quoted
market prices.

In 2001, the company adopted SFAS No. 133  Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  as amended
by SFAS No. 138 and SFAS No. 149. The standard requires
that all derivative instruments be recorded on the
balance sheet at fair value and establishes criteria for
designation and effectiveness of the hedging
relationships.

The company utilizes certain derivative financial
instruments to enhance its ability to manage risk,
including interest rate, foreign currency, commodity and
certain equity-linked employee compensation exposures
that exist as part of ongoing business operations.
Derivative instruments are entered into for periods
consistent with related underlying exposures and do not
constitute positions independent of those exposures. The
company does not enter into contracts for speculative
purposes, nor is it a party to any leveraged derivative
instrument.

The company is exposed to credit loss in the event of
nonperformance by the counterparties on derivative
contracts. The company minimizes its credit risk on these
transactions by dealing only with leading, credit-worthy
financial institutions having long-term credit ratings of
 A  or better and, therefore, does not anticipate
nonperformance. In addition, the contracts are
distributed among several financial institutions, thus
minimizing credit risk concentration.

All derivatives are
recognized on the balance sheet at fair value. On the
date the derivative contract is entered into, the company
designates the derivative as (1) a hedge of the fair
value of a recognized asset or liability or of an
unrecognized firm commitment (fair-value hedge), (2) a
hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability
of cash flows to be received or paid related to a
recognized asset or liability (cash-flow hedge), (3) a
foreign-currency fair-value or cash-flow hedge
(foreign-currency hedge), or (4) a hedge of a net
investment in a foreign operation. Some derivatives may
also be considered natural hedging instruments

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 37 

(changes in fair value are recognized to act as economic
offsets to changes in fair value of the underlying hedged
item and do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS
No. 133).

Changes in the fair value of a fair-value hedge, along
with the loss or gain on the hedged asset or liability
that is attributable to the hedged risk (including losses
or gains on firm commitments), are recorded in current
period earnings. Changes in the fair value of a cash-flow
hedge are recorded in other comprehensive income, until
earnings are affected by the variability of cash flows.
Changes in the fair value of a foreign-currency hedge are
recorded in either current-period earnings or other
comprehensive income, depending on whether the hedge
transaction is a fair-value hedge (e.g., a hedge of a
firm commitment that is to be settled in foreign
currency) or a cash-flow hedge (e.g., a hedge of a
foreign-currency-denominated forecasted transaction). If,
however, a derivative is used as a hedge of a net
investment in a foreign operation, its changes in fair
value, to the extent effective as a hedge, are recorded
in the cumulative translation adjustments account within
Shareowners  equity.

The company finances a portion of its operations through
debt instruments primarily consisting of commercial
paper, notes, debentures and bank loans. The company
utilizes interest rate swap agreements to minimize
worldwide financing costs and to achieve a targeted ratio
of variable-rate versus fixed-rate debt.

In July 2006,
the company entered into three interest rate swaps that
converted $154 of the $207 Australian variable-rate debt
to a weighted-average fixed rate of 6.73%.

There were no changes made to the company s interest rate
swap portfolio in 2005.

In September 2003, the company entered into ten-year
interest rate swaps that converted $200 of the 4.875%
fixed-rate notes issued during that month to variable.
The company also entered into $100 five-year interest
rate swaps that converted a portion of the 5.875%
fixed-rate notes due October 2008 to variable.

In April
2004, the company entered into a $50 interest rate swap
that converted a portion of the 6.9% fixed-rate notes due
October 2006 to variable.

In May 2004, the company entered into a $50 interest rate
swap that converted a portion of the 6.9% fixed-rate
notes due October 2006 to variable.

Fixed-to-variable interest rate swaps are accounted for
as fair-value hedges. Gains and losses on these
instruments are recorded in earnings as adjustments to
interest expense, offsetting gains and losses on the
hedged item. The notional amount of fair-value interest
rate swaps was $875 at both July 30, 2006 and July 31,
2005. The swaps had a fair value of $(29) at July 30,
2006 and $(2) at July 31, 2005.

Variable-to-fixed interest rate swaps are accounted for
as cash-flow hedges. Consequently, the effective portion
of unrealized gains (losses) is deferred as a component
of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and is
recognized in earnings at the time the hedged item
affects earnings. The amounts paid or received on the
hedge are
recognized as adjustments to interest expense. The fair
value of the swaps was not material as of July 30, 2006.
The notional amount was $154 as of July 30, 2006.

The company is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk
as a result of transactions in currencies other than the
functional currency of certain subsidiaries, including
subsidiary financing transactions. The company utilizes
foreign currency forward purchase and sale contracts and
cross-currency swaps in order to manage the volatility
associated with foreign currency purchases and sales and
certain intercompany transactions in the normal course of
business.

Qualifying foreign exchange forward and cross-currency
swap contracts are accounted for as cash-flow hedges when
the hedged item is a forecasted transaction, or when
future cash flows related to a recognized asset or
liability are expected to be received or paid. The
effective portion of the changes in fair value on these
instruments is recorded in Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) and is reclassified into the
Statements of Earnings on the same line item and in the
same period or periods in which the hedged transaction
affects earnings. The assessment of effectiveness for
contracts is based on changes in the spot rates. The fair
value of these instruments was $(202) at July 30, 2006.
The notional amount was $756 as of July 30, 2006. Of
these amounts, fair value of $(71) was related to $270
notional value of pay fixed GBP/receive fixed USD swaps
settled upon completion of the sale of the United Kingdom
and Irish businesses in August 2006.

Qualifying foreign
exchange forward contracts are accounted for as
fair-value hedges when the hedged item is a recognized
asset, liability or firm commitment. No such contracts
were outstanding at July 30, 2006.

The company also enters into certain foreign exchange
forward contracts and variable-to-variable cross-currency
swap contracts that are not designated as accounting
hedges. These instruments are primarily intended to
reduce volatility of certain intercompany financing
transactions. Gains and losses on derivatives not
designated as accounting hedges are typically recorded in
Other expenses/(income), as an offset to gains (losses)
on the underlying transactions. Cross-currency contracts
mature in 2007 through 2014. The fair value of these
instruments was $(18) at July 30, 2006. Of this amount,
$(6) was related to forward contracts to hedge the
company s investment in the United Kingdom and Irish
businesses and a cross-currency swap associated with
intercompany financing, which were settled upon
completion of the sale in August 2006. The notional
amount of all instruments was $723 at July 30, 2006.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 38 

Foreign exchange forward contracts typically have
maturities of less than eighteen months. Principal
currencies include the Australian dollar, British pound,
Canadian dollar, euro, Japanese yen, Mexican peso and
Swedish krona.

As of July 30, 2006, the accumulated derivative net loss
in other comprehensive income for cash-flow hedges,
including the foreign exchange forward and cross-currency
contracts, forward-starting swap contracts and treasury
lock agreements, was $15, net of tax. As of July 31, 2005
the accumulated derivative net loss in other
comprehensive income for cash-flow hedges was $20, net of
tax. Reclassifications from Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) into the Statements of
Earnings during the period ended July 30, 2006 were not
material. There were no discontinued cash-flow hedges
during the year. At July 30, 2006, the maximum maturity
date of any cash-flow hedge was approximately seven
years. The amount expected to be reclassified into the
Statements of Earnings in 2007 is approximately $(8).

The
company principally uses a combination of purchase orders
and various short- and long-term supply arrangements in
connection with the purchase of raw materials, including
certain commodities and agricultural products. The
company may also enter into commodity futures contracts,
as considered appropriate, to reduce the volatility of
price fluctuations for commodities such as corn, cocoa,
soybean meal, soybean oil, wheat and dairy. As of July
30, 2006 the notional values and the fair values of open
contracts related to commodity hedging activity were not
material.

The company is exposed to equity price changes related to
certain employee compensation obligations. Swap contracts
are utilized to hedge exposures relating to certain
employee compensation obligations linked to the total
return of the Standard   Poor s 500 Index, the total
return of the company s capital stock and the total
return of the Puritan Fund. The company pays a variable
interest rate and receives the equity returns under these
instruments. The notional value of the equity swap
contracts, which mature in 2007, was $55 at July 30,
2006. These instruments are not designated as accounting
hedges. Gains and losses are recorded in the Statements
of Earnings. The net asset recorded under these contracts
at July 30, 2006 was approximately $2.

21 Shareowners  Equity 

The company has authorized 560 million shares of
Capital stock with $.0375 par value and 40 million shares
of Preferred stock, issuable in one or more classes, with
or without par as may be authorized by the Board of
Directors. No Preferred stock has been issued.

Stock Plans 

In 2003, shareowners approved the 2003 Long-Term
Incentive Plan, which authorized the issuance of 28
million shares to satisfy awards of stock options, stock
appreciation rights, unrestricted stock, restricted stock
(including performance restricted stock) and performance
units. Approximately 3.2 million shares available under a
previous long-term plan were
rolled into the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan, making the
total number of available shares approximately 31.2
million. In November 2005, shareowners approved the 2005
Long-Term Incentive Plan, which authorized the issuance
of an additional 6 million shares to satisfy the same
types of awards.

Awards under the 2003 and 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plans
may be granted to employees and directors. The term of a
stock option granted under these plans may not exceed ten
years from the date of grant. Options granted under these
plans vest cumulatively over a three-year period at a
rate of 30%, 60% and 100%, respectively. The option price
may not be less than the fair market value of a share of
common stock on the date of the grant. Restricted stock
granted in fiscal 2004 and 2005 vests in three annual
installments of 1/3 each, beginning 2  1  / 2  years from the
date of grant.

Pursuant to the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan, in July
2005 the company adopted a long-term incentive
compensation program for fiscal 2006 which provides for
grants of total shareowner return (TSR) performance
restricted stock, EPS performance restricted stock, and
time-lapse restricted stock. Initial grants made in
accordance with this program were approved in September
2005. Under the program, awards of TSR performance
restricted stock will be earned by comparing the
company s total shareowner return during the period 2006
to 2008 to the respective total shareowner returns of
companies in a performance peer group. Based upon the
company s ranking in the performance peer group, a
recipient of TSR performance restricted stock may earn a
total award ranging from 0% to 200% of the initial grant.
Awards of EPS performance restricted stock will be earned
based upon the company s achievement of annual earnings
per share goals. During the period 2006 to 2008, a
recipient of EPS performance restricted stock may earn a
total award ranging from 0% to 100% of the initial grant.
Awards of time-lapse restricted stock will vest ratably
over the three-year period. Annual stock option grants
are not part of the long-term incentive compensation
program for 2006. However, stock options may still be
granted on a selective basis under the 2003 and 2005
Long-Term Incentive Plans.

In 2001, the Board of
Directors authorized the conversion of certain stock
options to shares of restricted stock based on specified
conversion ratios. The exchange, which was voluntary,
replaced approximately 4.7 million options with
approximately one

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 39 
  
 million restricted shares. Depending on the original
grant date of the options, the restricted shares vested
in 2002, 2003 or 2004. The company recognized
compensation expense throughout the vesting period of the
restricted stock. Compensation expense related to this
award was $3 in 2004.

Information about stock options and related activity is
as follows:

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during
2006, 2005, and 2004 was $35, $15, and $10, respectively.
As of July 30, 2006, total remaining unearned
compensation related to unvested stock options was $19,
which will be amortized over the weighted-average
remaining service period of 1 year. The weighted-average
fair value of options granted in 2006, 2005, and 2004 was
estimated as $6.85, $4.74, and $5.73, respectively. The
fair value of each option grant at grant date is
estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The following weighted-average assumptions were used for
grants in 2006, 2005 and 2004:

The following table summarizes time-lapse restricted
stock and EPS performance restricted stock as of July 30,
2006:

The fair value of time-lapse restricted stock and EPS
performance restricted stock is determined based on the
number of shares granted and the quoted price of the
company s stock at the date of grant. Time-lapse
restricted stock granted in fiscal 2004 and

2005 is expensed on a graded-vesting basis. Time-lapse
restricted stock granted in fiscal 2006 is expensed on a
straight-line basis over the vesting period, except for
awards
issued to retirement-eligible participants, which are
expensed on an accelerated basis. EPS performance
restricted stock is expensed on a graded-vesting basis,
except for awards issued to retirement-eligible
participants, which are expensed on an accelerated basis.

As of July 30, 2006, total remaining unearned
compensation related to nonvested time-lapse restricted
stock and EPS performance restricted stock was $44,
which will be amortized over the weighted-average
remaining service period of 1.9 years. The fair value of
restricted stock vested during 2006, 2005, and 2004 was
$16, $24, and $14, respectively. The weighted-average
grant-date fair value of restricted stock granted during
2005 and 2004 was $26.32 and $26.78, respectively.

In 2006, the company granted approximately 1.7 million
shares of TSR performance restricted stock with a
grant-date fair value of $28.73. Approximately 1.6
million shares were outstanding at July 30, 2006. The
fair value of TSR performance restricted stock is
estimated at the grant date using a Monte Carlo
simulation. Expense is recognized on a straight-line
basis over the service period. As of July 30, 2006, total
remaining unearned compensation related to TSR
performance restricted stock was $34, which will be
amortized over the weighted-average remaining service
period of 2.2 years.

Employees can elect to defer all
types of restricted stock awards. These awards are
classified as liabilities because of the possibility that
they may be settled in cash. The fair value is adjusted
quarterly. The total cash paid to settle the liabilities
in 2006, 2005 and 2004 was not material. The liability
for deferred awards was $16 at July 30, 2006.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the company
presented the tax benefits of deductions resulting from
the exercise of stock options as cash flows from
operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows. SFAS No. 123R requires the cash flows from
the excess tax benefits the company realizes on
stock-based compensation to be presented as cash flows
from financing activities. The excess tax benefits on the
exercise of stock options and vested restricted stock
presented as cash flows from financing activities in 2006
were $11 and presented as cash flows from operating
activities in 2005 were $6 and in 2004 were $3. Cash
received from the exercise of stock options was $236,
$71, and $25 for 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, and
is reflected in cash flows from financing activities in
the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

Table of Contents   

PAGE 40 

For the periods presented in the Consolidated Statements
of Earnings, the calculations of basic earnings per share
and earnings per share assuming dilution vary in that the
weighted average shares outstanding assuming dilution
include the incremental effect of stock options and
restricted stock programs, except when such effect would
be antidilutive. Stock options to purchase 3 million
shares of capital stock for 2006, 10 million shares of
capital stock for 2005 and 26 million shares of capital
stock for 2004 were not included in the calculation of
diluted earnings per share because the exercise price of
the stock options exceeded the average market price of
the capital stock, and therefore, would be antidilutive.

22 Commitments and Contingencies 

On March 30, 1998, the company effected a spinoff of
several of its non-core businesses to Vlasic Foods
International Inc. (VFI). VFI and several of its
affiliates (collectively, Vlasic) commenced cases under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on January 29, 2001 in
the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of
Delaware. Vlasic s Second Amended Joint Plan of
Distribution under Chapter
11 (the Plan) was confirmed by an order of the Bankruptcy
Court dated November 16, 2001, and became effective on or
about November 29, 2001. The Plan provides for the
assignment of various causes of action allegedly
belonging to the Vlasic estates, including claims against
the company allegedly arising from the spinoff, to VFB
L.L.C., a limited liability company (VFB) whose
membership interests are to be distributed under the Plan
to Vlasic s general unsecured creditors.

On February 19, 2002, VFB commenced a lawsuit against the
company and several of its subsidiaries in the United
States District Court for the District of Delaware
alleging, among other things, fraudulent conveyance,
illegal dividends and breaches of fiduciary duty by
Vlasic directors alleged to be under the company s
control. The lawsuit seeks to hold the company liable in
an amount necessary to satisfy all unpaid claims against
Vlasic (which VFB estimates in the amended complaint to
be $200), plus unspecified exemplary and punitive
damages.

Following a trial on the merits, on September 13, 2005,
the District Court issued Post-Trial Findings of Fact and
Conclusions of Law, ruling in favor of the company and
against VFB on all claims. The Court ruled that VFB
failed to prove that the spinoff was a constructive or
actual fraudulent transfer. The Court also rejected VFB s
claim of breach of fiduciary duty, VFB s claim that

VFI was an alter ego of the company, and VFB s claim that
the spinoff should be deemed an illegal dividend. On
November 1, 2005, VFB appealed the decision to the United
States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. The
company continues to believe this action is without merit
and is defending the case vigorously.

The company is a
party to other legal proceedings and claims, tax issues
and environmental matters arising out of the normal
course of business.

Management assesses the probability of loss for all legal
proceedings and claims, tax issues and environmental
matters and has recognized liabilities for such
contingencies, as appropriate. Although the results of
these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, in
management s opinion, the final outcome of legal
proceedings and claims, tax issues and environmental
matters will not have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated results of operations or financial condition
of the company.

The company has certain operating lease commitments,
primarily related to warehouse and office facilities,
retail store space and certain equipment. Rent expense
under operating lease commitments was $82 in 2006, $84
in 2005 and $79 in 2004. Future minimum annual rental
payments under these operating leases are as follows:

The company guarantees approximately 1,500 bank loans
made to Pepperidge Farm independent sales distributors by
third party financial institutions for the purchase of
distribution routes. The maximum potential amount of
future payments the company could be required to make
under the guarantees is $122. The company s guarantees
are indirectly secured by the distribution routes. The
company does not believe it is probable that it will be
required to make guarantee payments as a result of
defaults on the bank loans guaranteed. The amounts
recognized as of July 30, 2006 and July 31, 2005 were not
material.

The company has provided certain standard
indemnifications in connection with divestitures,
contracts and other transactions. Certain
indemnifications have finite expiration dates.
Liabilities recognized based on known exposures related
to such matters were not material at July 30, 2006.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 41 

23 Statements of Cash Flows 

24 Quarterly Data (unaudited) 

1 
       
     Includes a $13 ($8 after tax or $.02 per
share) benefit from a change in inventory
accounting method (see also Note 13) and a $60
($.14 per share) benefit from the favorable
resolution of a U.S. tax contingency. (See
also Note 11.) 

2 
       
     The results of discontinued operations included
$56 of deferred tax expense due to book/ tax basis
differences and $5 of after-tax costs associated
with the sale of the businesses (aggregate impact
of $.15 per share). 

3 
       
     As of August 1, 2005, the company adopted
SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective
method. Prior periods were not restated. (See
also Note 1.) 

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 42 
  Reports of Management 

Management s Report on Financial Statements 

The accompanying financial statements have been
prepared by the company s management in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles to reflect the
financial position of the company and its operating
results. The financial information appearing throughout
this Annual Report is consistent with the financial
statements. Management is responsible for the information
and representations in such financial statements,
including the estimates and judgments required for their
preparation. The financial statements have been audited
by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which
appears herein.

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which is
composed entirely of Directors who are not officers or
employees of the company, meets regularly with the
company s worldwide internal auditing department, other
management personnel, and the independent auditors. The
independent auditors and the internal auditing department
have had, and continue to have, direct access to the
Audit Committee without the presence of other management
personnel, and have been directed to discuss the results
of their audit work and any matters they believe should
be brought to the Committee s attention. The internal
auditing department and the independent auditors report
directly to the Audit Committee.

Management s Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting 

The company s management is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control
over financial reporting. Internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States of America.

The company s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that:

pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;

provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and Directors of the company; and

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The company s management assessed the effectiveness of
the company s internal control over financial reporting
as of July 30, 2006. In making this assessment,
management used the criteria set forth by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework . Based
on this assessment using those criteria, management
concluded that the company s internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of July 30, 2006.

Management s assessment of the effectiveness of the
company s internal control over financial reporting as of
July 30, 2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as
stated in their report, which appears herein.

Douglas R. Conant  
President and Chief Executive Officer

Robert A. Schiffner  
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Anthony P. DiSilvestro  
Vice President   Controller

September 28, 2006

Table of Contents   

PAGE 43

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
To the Shareowners and Directors of Campbell Soup Company 

We have completed integrated audits of Campbell Soup Company s 2006 and 2005 consolidated
financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of July 30, 2006 and
an audit of its 2004 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are
presented below.

Consolidated financial statements 

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, of shareowners  equity and of cash flows present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Campbell Soup Company and its subsidiaries at July 30, 2006 and
July 31, 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended July 30, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our
audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 1, the company adopted a new financial accounting standard for share-based
compensation during 2006.

Internal control over financial reporting 

Also, in our opinion, management s assessment, included in the accompanying Management s Report
on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that the Company maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of July 30, 2006 based on criteria established in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria.
Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of July 30, 2006, based on criteria established in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the COSO. The Company s management is responsible

for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express
opinions on management s assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over financial
reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding
of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other
procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
September 28, 2006

Table of Contents   

PAGE 44  

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure 

None.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 

The company, under the supervision and with the participation of its management, including the
President and Chief Executive Officer and the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
has evaluated the effectiveness of the company s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term
is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(the  Exchange Act )) as of July 30, 2006 (the  Evaluation Date ). Based on such evaluation, the
President and Chief Executive Officer and the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
have concluded that, as of the Evaluation Date, the company s disclosure controls and procedures
are effective, and are reasonably designed to ensure that all material information relating to the
company (including its consolidated subsidiaries) required to be included in the company s reports
filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The annual report of management on the company s internal control over financial reporting is
provided under  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  on page 42. The attestation report of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the company s independent registered public accounting firm, regarding
the company s internal control over financial reporting is provided under  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  on page 43.

During the quarter ended July 30, 2006, except as described below,
there were no changes in the company s internal control over financial reporting that materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, such internal control over financial
reporting. During the quarter, the company implemented a new
enterprise resource planning system in
its Canadian business as part of the previously announced North American implementation of SAP. In
conjunction with this implementation, changes were made in the company s internal control over
financial reporting in order to adapt to the new system.

Item 9B. Other Information 

None.

Part III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The sections entitled  Election of Directors,   Security Ownership of Directors and Executive
Officers  and  Directors and Executive Officers Stock Ownership Reports  in the company s Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held on November 16, 2006 (the  2006 Proxy )
are incorporated herein by reference. The information presented in the section entitled  Board
Committees  in the 2006 Proxy relating to the members of the company s Audit Committee is
incorporated herein by reference. The information presented in the section entitled  Audit
Committee Report  in the 2006 Proxy relating to the Audit Committee s financial experts is
incorporated herein by reference.

Certain of the information required by this Item relating to the executive officers of the company
is set forth in the heading  Executive Officers of the Company. 

The company has adopted a Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial
Officers that applies to the company s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controller
and members of the Chief Financial Officer s financial leadership team. The Code of Ethics for the
Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers is posted on the company s website, www.campbellsoupcompany.com (under the  Governance  caption). The company intends to satisfy the
disclosure requirement regarding any amendment to, or a waiver of, a provision of the Code of
Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers by posting such information on
its website.

The company has also adopted a separate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to the Board
of Directors, the company s officers and all of the company s employees. The Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics is posted on the company s website, www.campbellsoupcompany.com (under the
 Governance  caption). The

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 45  

company s Corporate Governance Standards and the charters of the
company s four standing committees of the Board of Directors can also be found at this website.
Printed copies of the foregoing are available to any shareowner requesting a copy by writing to:
Corporate Secretary, Campbell Soup Company, 1 Campbell Place, Camden, NJ 08103.

Item 11. Executive Compensation 

The information presented in the sections entitled  Summary Compensation,   Aggregated Option
Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Option Values,   Fiscal 2006 Long-Term Incentive
Grants,   Pension Plans,   Director Compensation,   Termination of Employment and Change in Control
Arrangements  and  Compensation and Organization Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  in
the 2006 Proxy is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Shareowner Matters 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 

The information presented in the sections entitled  Security Ownership of Directors and
Executive Officers  and  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners  in the 2006 Proxy is
incorporated herein by reference.

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans 

The following table provides information about the company s stock that may be issued under the
company s equity compensation plans as of July 30, 2006:

1 
       
      Column (a) represents stock options and restricted stock units outstanding under the 2005
Long-Term Incentive Plan, the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
No additional awards can be made under the 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Future equity awards
under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan may take the form of
stock options, stock appreciation rights, performance unit awards, restricted stock, restricted
performance stock, restricted stock
units or stock awards. Column (b) represents the weighted-average exercise price of the outstanding
stock options only; the outstanding restricted stock units are not included in this calculation.
Column (c) represents the maximum aggregate number of future equity awards that can be made under
the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan as of July 30, 2006. The
maximum number of future equity awards that can be made under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan as
of July 30, 2006 is 5,980,870. The maximum number of future equity awards that can be made under
the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan as of July 30, 2006 is 9,136,582 (the  2003 Plan Limit ). Each
stock option or stock appreciation right awarded under the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan reduces
the 2003 Plan Limit by one share. Each restricted stock unit, restricted stock, restricted
performance stock or stock award under the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan reduces the 2003 Plan
Limit by four shares. In the event any award (or portion thereof) under the 1994 Long-Term
Incentive Plan lapses, expires or is otherwise terminated without the issuance of any company stock
or is settled by delivery of consideration other than company stock, the maximum number of future
equity awards that can be made under the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan automatically increases by
the number of such shares.

2 
       
      The company s Deferred Compensation Plans (the  Plans ) allow participants the opportunity to
invest in various book accounts, including a book account that tracks the performance of the
company s stock (the  Stock Account ). Upon distribution, participants may receive the amounts
invested in the Stock Account in the form of shares of company stock. Column (a) represents the
maximum number of shares that could be issued upon a complete distribution of all amounts in the
Stock Account. This calculation is based upon the amount of funds in the Stock Account as of July
30, 2006 and a $36.77 share price, which was the closing price of a share of company stock on July
28, 2006 (the last business day before July 30, 2006). 853,796 of the total number of shares that
could be issued upon a complete distribution of the Plans are fully vested, and 691,026 of the
shares are subject to restrictions.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 46  

Deferred Compensation Plans 

The Plans are unfunded and maintained for the purpose of providing the company s directors and
U.S.-based executives and key managers the opportunity to defer a portion of their earned
compensation. Participants may defer a portion of their base salaries and all or a portion of their
annual incentive compensation, long-term incentive awards, and director retainers and fees. The
Plans were not submitted for security holder approval because they do not provide additional
compensation to participants. They are vehicles for participants to defer earned compensation.

Each participant s contributions to the Plans are credited to an investment account in the
participant s name. Gains and losses in the participant s account are based on the performance of
the investment choices the participant has selected. Four investment choices are available,
including the Stock Account. In addition to the Stock Account, participants also generally have the
opportunity to invest in (i) a book account that tracks the performance of Fidelity s Spartan U.S.
Equity Index Fund, (ii) a book account that tracks the performance of Fidelity s Puritan Fund, and
(iii) a book account that credits interest at the Wall Street Journal indexed prime rate
(determined on November 1 for the subsequent calendar year).

A participant may reallocate his or her investment account at any time among the four investment
choices, except that (i) restricted stock awards must be invested in the Stock Account during the
restriction period, and (ii) reallocations of the Stock Account must be made in compliance with the
company s policies on trading company stock. Dividends on amounts invested in the Stock Account may
be reallocated among the four investment accounts. The company credits a participant s account with
an amount equal to the matching contribution that the company would have made to the participant s
401(k) Plan account if the participant had not deferred compensation under the Plan. In addition,
for those individuals whose base salary and annual incentive compensation exceed the Internal
Revenue Service indexed compensation limit for the 401(k) Plan, the company credits such
individual s account with an amount equal to the contribution the company would have made to the
401(k) Plan but for the compensation limit. These company contributions vest in 20% increments over
the participant s first five (5) years of credited service; after the participant s first five (5)
years of service, the company contributions vest immediately. Except as described above, there is
no company match on deferred compensation.

For terminations and retirements, a participant s account is generally paid out in accordance with
the last valid distribution election made by the participant. The applicable elections include: (i)
a lump sum, (ii) 5 annual installments, (iii) 10 annual installments, (iv) 15 annual installments
(not available to participants terminated prior to their 55th birthday), and (v) 20 annual
installments (not available to participants
terminated prior to their 55th birthday). For distributions upon death, if a participant s
beneficiary is his or her spouse, the account is generally paid out in accordance with the last
valid death distribution election (or, if there is no death distribution election, the regular
distribution election). If a participant s beneficiary is not his or her spouse, then the account
is generally paid out in a lump sum. The administrator of the Plans has also established procedures
for hardship withdrawals and, for amounts vested prior to January 1, 2005, unplanned withdrawals.
In the event of a change in control of the company, the Stock Account is automatically converted
into cash based upon a formula provided in the Plan.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 

The information presented in the section entitled  Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions  in the 2006 Proxy is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

The information presented in the section entitled  Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm Fees and Services  in the 2006 Proxy is incorporated herein by reference.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 47  

Part
IV

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:

1. 
       
      Financial Statements  

2. 
       
      Financial Statement Schedules  

None. 

3. 
       
      Exhibits  

3 (i) 
       
      Campbell s Restated Certificate of Incorporation as amended through February 24, 1997 was
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) with Campbell s Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended July 28, 2002, and is incorporated herein by
reference.

3 (ii) 
       
      Campbell s By-Laws, as amended through May 25, 2006, were filed with the SEC
on a Form 8-K on May 26, 2006, and are incorporated herein by
reference.

4 
       
      The company agrees to file a copy of any instrument or agreement defining the
rights of holders of long-term debt of the company upon request of
the SEC.

9 
       
      Major Stockholders  Voting Trust Agreement dated June 2, 1990, as amended, was
filed with the SEC by (i) Campbell as Exhibit 99.C to Campbell s Schedule 13E-4 filed on
September 12, 1996, and (ii) with respect to certain subsequent amendments, the Trustees
of the Major Stockholders  Voting Trust as Exhibit 99.G to Amendment No. 7 to their
Schedule 13D dated March 3, 2000, and as Exhibit 99.M to Amendment No. 8 to their
Schedule 13D dated January 26, 2001, and as Exhibit 99.P to Amendment No. 9 to their
Schedule 13D dated September 30, 2002, and is incorporated
herein by reference.

10(a) 
       
      Campbell Soup Company 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended on November 17, 2000,
was filed with the SEC with Campbell s 2000 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated herein by
reference.

10(b) 
       
      Campbell Soup Company 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan was filed with the SEC with
Campbell s 2003 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated herein by
reference.

10(c) 
       
      Campbell Soup Company 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan was filed with the SEC with
Campbell s 2005 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated herein by
reference.

10(d) 
       
      Campbell Soup Company Annual Incentive Plan, as amended on November 18, 2004, was filed
with the SEC with Campbell s 2004 Proxy Statement, and is
incorporated herein by reference.

10(e) 
       
      Campbell Soup Company Mid-Career Hire Pension Program, amended effective as of January
25, 2001, was filed with the SEC with Campbell s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 29,
2001, and is incorporated herein by reference.

10(f) 
       
      Deferred Compensation Plan, effective
November 18, 1999, was filed with the SEC with Campbell s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
July 30, 2000, and is incorporated herein by reference.

10(g) 
       
      Severance Protection Agreement dated January 8, 2001, with Douglas R. Conant, President
and Chief Executive Officer, was filed with the SEC with Campbell s Form 10-Q for the fiscal
quarter ended January 28, 2001, and is incorporated herein by reference. Agreements with the
other executive officers listed under the heading  Executive Officers of the Company  are in
all material respects the same as Mr. Conant s
agreement.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 48  

10(h) 
       
      Letter Agreement between the company and Mark A. Sarvary, effective as of February 9, 2004,
regarding severance arrangements was filed with the SEC with Campbell s Form 10-Q for the fiscal
quarter ended May 2, 2004, and is incorporated herein by
reference.

10(i) 
       
      Form of Stock Option Award Statement was filed with the SEC on a Campbell Form 8-K filed on
September 28, 2004, and is incorporated herein by
reference.

10(j) 
       
      Form of Restricted Stock Award Statement was filed with the SEC on a Campbell Form 8-K filed
on September 28, 2004, and is incorporated herein by
reference.

10(k) 
       
      Compensation arrangements relating to the company s executive officers and members of the
company s Board of Directors were described in a company Form 8-K filed on September 27, 2005, and
such description is incorporated herein by reference.

10(l) 

A special long-term incentive grant of
54,667 performance-restricted shares made to the Senior Vice President and Chief Information
Officer, in lieu of grants under the company s regular long-term incentive program, was described
in a Form 8-K filed on November 22, 2005, and such description
is incorporated herein by reference.

10(m) 
       
      Campbell Soup Company Severance Pay Plan for Salaried Employees, as amended and restated
effective January 1, 2006, was filed with the SEC with Campbell s Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
ended January 29, 2006, and is incorporated herein by
reference.

10(n) 
       
      Campbell Soup Company Supplemental Severance Pay Plan for Exempt Salaried Employees, as
amended and restated effective January 1, 2006, was filed with the SEC with Campbell s Form 10-Q
for the fiscal quarter ended January 29, 2006, and is
incorporated herein by reference.

10(o) 
       
      Board of Director compensation for calendar year 2007 was described in a Campbell Form 8-K
filed on June 27, 2006, and such description is incorporated
herein by reference.

10(p) 
       
      Agreement between Campbell s UK Limited, Campbell Soup UK Limited, Campbell Netherlands
Holdings B.V., Campbell Investment Company, Campbell Soup Company, Premier Foods Investments
Limited, HL Foods Limited and Premier Foods plc dated July 12, 2006, was filed with the SEC with a
Campbell Form 8-K filed on July 14, 2006, and is incorporated
herein by reference.

21 
       
      Subsidiaries (Direct and Indirect) of
the company.

23 
       
   Consent of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm.

24 

Power of Attorney.

31(i) 
       
      Certification of Douglas R. Conant pursuant to Rule
13a-14(a).

31(ii)  
       
      Certification of Robert A. Schiffner pursuant to Rule
13a-14(a).

32(i) 
       
      Certification of Douglas R. Conant pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section
1350.

32(ii) 
       
      Certification of Robert A. Schiffner pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350.

Table of Contents   
 
  PAGE 49  

Signatures 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
Campbell has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

Date: October 11, 2006

CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY  

By:   
     /s/ Robert A. Schiffner

Robert A. Schiffner  

Senior Vice President and
Chief
Financial Officer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of Campbell and in the capacity and on the date indicated.

Date: October 11, 2006

/s/ Robert A. Schiffner

/s/ Anthony P. DiSilvestro 

Robert A. Schiffner

Anthony P. DiSilvestro

Senior Vice President

Vice President   Controller 

and Chief Financial Officer

Harvey Golub

Chairman and Director

} 

Douglas R. Conant

President, Chief Executive

} 

Officer and Director

} 

Edmund M. Carpenter

Director

} 

Paul R. Charron

Director

} 

Bennett Dorrance

Director

} 

Kent
B. Foster  
Randall W. Larrimore

Director 
Director

} 
}

By:

/s/ Ellen Oran Kaden

Ellen Oran Kaden

Philip E. Lippincott

Director

}

Senior Vice President   

Mary Alice D. Malone

Director

}

Law and Government 

Sara Mathew

Director

}

Affairs 

David C. Patterson

Director

} 

Charles R. Perrin

Director

} 

A. Barry Rand

Director

} 

George Strawbridge, Jr.

Director

} 

Les C. Vinney

Director

} 

Charlotte C. Weber

Director

} 

INDEX OF EXHIBITS 

Document  

3 (i)

Campbell s Restated Certificate of Incorporation as amended through
February 24, 1997 was filed with the SEC with Campbell s Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended July 28, 2002, and is incorporated herein by
reference. 

3 (ii)

Campbell s By-Laws, as amended through May 25, 2006, were filed with
the SEC on a Form 8-K on May 26, 2006, and are incorporated herein by
reference. 

4

The company agrees to file a copy of any instrument or agreement
defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the company upon
request of the SEC. 

9

Major Stockholders  Voting Trust Agreement dated June 2, 1990, as
amended, was filed with the SEC by (i) Campbell as Exhibit 99.C to
Campbell s Schedule 13E-4 filed on September 12, 1996, and (ii) with
respect to certain subsequent amendments, the Trustees of the Major
Stockholders  Voting Trust as Exhibit 99.G to Amendment No. 7 to their
Schedule 13D dated March 3, 2000, and as Exhibit 99.M to Amendment No.
8 to their Schedule 13D dated January 26, 2001, and as Exhibit 99.P to
Amendment No. 9 to their Schedule 13D dated September 30, 2002, and is
incorporated herein by reference. 

10 (a)

Campbell Soup Company 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended on
November 17, 2000, was filed with the SEC with Campbell s 2000 Proxy
Statement, and is incorporated herein by reference. 

10 (b)

Campbell Soup Company 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan was filed with the
SEC with Campbell s 2003 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated herein by
reference. 

10 (c)

Campbell Soup Company 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan was filed with the
SEC with Campbell s 2005 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated herein by
reference. 

10 (d)

Campbell Soup Company Annual Incentive Plan, as amended on November 18,
2004, was filed with the SEC with Campbell s 2004 Proxy Statement, and
is incorporated herein by reference. 

10 (e)

Campbell Soup Company Mid-Career Hire Pension Program, as amended
effective as of January 25, 2001, was filed with the SEC with
Campbell s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 29, 2001, and is
incorporated herein by reference. 

10 (f)

Deferred Compensation Plan, effective November 18, 1999, was filed with
the SEC with Campbell s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 30,
2000, and is incorporated herein by reference. 

10 (g)

Severance Protection Agreement dated January 8, 2001, with Douglas R.
Conant, 

Table of Contents   

Document  

President and Chief Executive Officer, was filed with the SEC
with Campbell s Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 28,
2001, and is incorporated herein by reference. Agreements with the
other executive officers listed under the heading  Executive Officers
of the Company  are in all material respects the same as Mr. Conant s
agreement. 

10 (h)

Letter Agreement between the company and Mark A. Sarvary, effective as
of February 9, 2004, regarding severance arrangements was filed with
the SEC with Campbell s Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended May 2,
2004, and is incorporated herein by reference. 

10 (i)

Form of Stock Option Award Statement was filed with the SEC on a
Campbell Form 8-K filed on September 28, 2004, and is incorporated
herein by reference. 

10 (j)

Form of Restricted Stock Award Statement was filed with the SEC on a
Campbell Form 8-K filed on September 28, 2004, and is incorporated
herein by reference. 

10 (k)

Compensation arrangements relating to the company s executive officers
and members of the company s Board of Directors were described in a
company Form 8-K filed on September 27, 2005, and such description is
incorporated herein by reference. 

10 (l)

A special long-term incentive grant of 54,667 performance-restricted
shares made to the Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer,
in lieu of grants under the company s regular long-term incentive
program, was described in a Form 8-K filed on November 22, 2005, and
such description is incorporated herein by reference. 

10 (m)

Campbell Soup Company Severance Pay Plan for Salaried Employees, as
amended and restated effective January 1, 2006, was filed with the SEC
with Campbell s Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 29,
2006, and is incorporated herein by reference. 

10 (n)

Campbell Soup Company Supplemental Severance Pay Plan for Exempt
Salaried Employees, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2006,
was filed with the SEC with Campbell s Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
ended January 29, 2006, and is incorporated herein by reference. 

10 (o)

Board of Director compensation for calendar year 2007 was described in
a Campbell Form 8-K filed on June 27, 2006, and such description is
incorporated herein by reference. 

10 (p)

Agreement between Campbell s UK Limited, Campbell Soup UK Limited,
Campbell Netherlands Holdings B.V., Campbell Investment Company,
Campbell Soup Company, Premier Foods Investments Limited, HL Foods
Limited and Premier Foods plc dated July 12, 2006, was filed with the
SEC with a Campbell Form 8-K filed on July 14, 2006, and is
incorporated herein by reference. 

21

Subsidiaries (Direct and Indirect) of the company. 

Table of Contents   

<EX-21>
 2
 w23178exv21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES (DIRECT & INDIRECT) OF THE COMPANY

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21  

SUBSIDIARIES OF CAMPBELL 

Name of Subsidiary and Name  

Under Which It Does Business  

Jurisdiction of Incorporation  

AB Australasia Pty Ltd

Australia 

Arnott s Biscuit Company Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Arnotts Biscuits Holdings Pty Ltd

Australia 

Arnott s Biscuits Limited

Australia 

Arnott s Biscuits Holdings (PNG) Pty Limited

New Guinea 

Arnott s Biscuits (PNG) Pty Limited

New Guinea 

Arnotts Ltd

Australia 

Arnott s New Zealand Limited

New Zealand 

Arnott s Philippines Inc

Philippines 

Arnott s Sales Pty Limited

Australia 

Arnott s SBAH Pty Ltd

Australia 

Arnott s SBH Pty Ltd

Australia 

Arnott s SBF Pty Ltd

Australia 

Arnott s SBI Pty Ltd

Australia 

Arnott s Snackfoods

Australia 

Aulsebrooks Limited

New Zealand 

CAH Corporation

Delaware 

Campbell Australasia Pty Ltd

Australia 

Campbell Canada Holdings Ltd.

Canada 

Campbell Canada Limited Partnership

Canada 

Campbell Cheong Chan Malaysia Sdn Bhd

Malaysia 

Campbell Company of Canada

Canada 

Campbell Coordination Center n.v./s.a.

Belgium 

Campbell EU Investment Company

Delaware 

Campbell EU Investment 2 Company

Delaware 

Name of Subsidiary and Name  

Under Which It Does Business  

Jurisdiction of Incorporation  

Campbell Finance Corp.

Delaware 

Campbell Finance 2 Corp.

Delaware 

Campbell Foods Belgium n.v./s.a.

Belgium 

Campbell Foodservice Company

Pennsylvania 

Campbell France Holding S.A.S.

France 

Campbell France S.A.S.

France 

Campbell France Sauces S.A.S.

France 

Campbell Generale Condimentaire S.A.S.

France 

Campbell Grocery Products Limited * 

United Kingdom 

Campbell International Holdings Inc.

Delaware 

Campbell Investment (Australia) Pty Ltd

Australia 

Campbell Investment Company

Delaware 

Campbell Investment Company of Canada

Canada 

Campbell Japan Inc.

Japan 

Campbell MFG 1 Company

Delaware 

Campbell Netherlands Holding B.V.

Netherlands 

Campbell Sales Company

New Jersey 

Campbell Soup Asia Ltd

Hong Kong 

Campbell Soup Ireland Limited * 

Ireland 

Campbell Soup Sweden AB

Sweden 

Campbell Soup Supply Company L.L.C.

Delaware 

Campbell Soup Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.

China 

Campbell Soup UK Limited

United Kingdom 

Campbell Southeast Asia Sdn Bhd

Malaysia 

Campbell s de Mexico S.A. de C. V.

Mexico 

Campbell s Germany GmbH

Germany 

Campbell s Netherlands B.V.

Netherlands 

Campbell s O.O.O.

Russia 

Name of Subsidiary and Name  

Under Which It Does Business  

Jurisdiction of Incorporation  

Campbell s U.K. Limited

United Kingdom 

CANEB LLC

Delaware 

CanFin Holdings Inc.

Delaware 

Continental Foods S.A.

France 

CSC Brands LP

Delaware 

CSC Standards, Inc.

New Jersey 

CSC U.K. Limited

United Kingdom 

Erin Foods Limited * 

Ireland 

Erin Foods Manufacturing Limited * 

Ireland 

Eugen Lacroix Grundstuecksverwaltungsgesellschaft  
mbH

Germany 

Eugen Lacroix GmbH

Germany 

Godiva Brands, Inc.

Delaware 

Godiva Belgium n.v./s.a.

Belgium 

Godiva Chocolatier (Asia) Ltd

Hong Kong 

Godiva Chocolatier, Inc.

New Jersey 

Godiva Chocolatier of Canada Ltd.

Canada 

Godiva France S.A.

France 

Godiva Japan Inc.

Japan 

Godiva U.K. Limited

United Kingdom 

Immobiliaria Campbell s de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Joseph Campbell Company

New Jersey 

Pepperidge Farm, Incorporated

Connecticut 

PF Brands, Inc.

Delaware 

Players Biscuits Pty Ltd

Australia 

Players Group Limited

Australia 

PT Arnott s Indonesia

Indonesia 

Royco Voedingsmiddelenfabrieken B.V.

Netherlands 

Name of Subsidiary and Name  

Under Which It Does Business  

Jurisdiction of Incorporation  

Sinalopasta S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Snack Foods Limited

Australia 

Stockpot Inc.

Washington 

*  
       
     Divested on August 15, 2006. 

The foregoing does not constitute a complete list of all subsidiaries of the registrant. The
subsidiaries that have been omitted do not, if considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary,
constitute a  Significant Subsidiary  as defined by the SEC. 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 3
 w23178exv23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23 

EXHIBIT 23   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form
S-3 (No. 333-90036) and Forms S-8 (Nos. 333-134675, 333-112319, 333-38520, 333-22803,
333-00729, 33-59797 and 33-56899) of Campbell Soup Company of our report dated September
28, 2006 relating to the financial statements, management s assessment of the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting, which appears in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

October 10, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 4
 w23178exv24.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

exv24 

EXHIBIT 24  

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT FOR FISCAL 2006 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and
appoints Ellen O. Kaden and John J. Furey, each of them, until December 31, 2006, their true and
lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and revocation, for them and
in their name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign Campbell Soup Company s Form
10-K Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission for the fiscal year ended July 30,
2006, and any amendments thereto, and to file the same with all exhibits thereto, and other
documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and
thing requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might
or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents
may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY  

Signature  
       
      Dated as of September 28, 2006  

/s/ Edmund M. Carpenter

/s/ Mary Alice D. Malone 

Edmund M. Carpenter

Mary Alice D. Malone 

/s/ Paul R. Charron

/s/ Sara Mathew 

Paul R. Charron

Sara Mathew 

/s/ Douglas R. Conant

/s/ David C. Patterson 

Douglas R. Conant

David C. Patterson 

/s/ Bennett Dorrance

/s/ Charles R. Perrin 

Bennett Dorrance

Charles R. Perrin 

/s/ Kent B. Foster

/s/ A. Barry Rand 

Kent B. Foster

A. Barry Rand 

/s/ Harvey Golub

/s/ George Strawbridge, Jr. 

Harvey Golub

George Strawbridge, Jr. 

/s/ Randall W. Larrimore

/s/ Les C. Vinney 

Randall W. Larrimore

Les C. Vinney 

/s/ Philip E. Lippincott

/s/ Charlotte C. Weber 

Philip E. Lippincott

Charlotte C. Weber 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.(I)>
 5
 w23178exv31wxiy.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF DOUGLAS R. CONANT

exv31wxiy 

Exhibit 31(i) 
Certification Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) 

I, Douglas R. Conant, certify that:

1. 
       
      I have reviewed this Annual Report on
Form 10-K of Campbell Soup Company;

2. 
       
      Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. 
       
      Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;

4. 
       
      The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) 
       
      designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) 
       
      designed such internal control
over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) 
       
      evaluated the effectiveness of
the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and

d) 
       
      disclosed in this report
any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the
case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and

5. 
       
      The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):

a) 
       
      all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and

b) 
       
      any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting.

Date: October 11, 2006

By:   
                                                                   /s/ Douglas R. Conant

Name:   
     Douglas R. Conant  

Title:   
     President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.(I)>

<EX-31.(II)>
 6
 w23178exv31wxiiy.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF ROBERT A. SCHIFFNER

exv31wxiiy 

Exhibit 31(ii) 
Certification Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) 

I, Robert A. Schiffner, certify that:

1. 
       
      I have reviewed this Annual Report on
Form 10-K of Campbell Soup Company;

2. 
       
      Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. 
       
      Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;

4. 
       
      The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) 
       
      designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) 
       
      designed such internal control
over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) 
       
      evaluated the effectiveness of
the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) 
       
      disclosed in this report
any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the
case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5. 
       
      The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):

a) 
       
      all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) 
       
      any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: October 11, 2006

By:   
           /s/ Robert A. Schiffner

Name:   
     Robert A. Schiffner  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.(II)>

<EX-32.(I)>
 7
 w23178exv32wxiy.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

exv32wxiy 

Exhibit 32(i) 

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 

In connection with the Annual Report of Campbell Soup Company (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended July 30, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ), I, Douglas R. Conant, President and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company, hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:

(1) The Report fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934; and

 (2) The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of the Company.

Date: October 11, 2006

By:   
                                                                   /s/ Douglas R. Conant

Name:   
     Douglas R. Conant  

Title:   
     President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-32.(I)>

<EX-32.(II)>
 8
 w23178exv32wxiiy.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

exv32wxiiy 

Exhibit 32(ii) 
Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 

In connection with the Annual Report of Campbell Soup Company (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended July 30, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ), I, Robert A. Schiffner, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of the Company, hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my
knowledge:

 (1) The Report fully complies
with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and

 (2) The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of the Company.

Date: October 11, 2006

By:   
                                                                   /s/ Robert A. Schiffner

Name:   
     Robert A. Schiffner  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-32.(II)>

