<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061214_10-K_edgar_data_353567_0000353567-06-000067_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2943401</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>285166</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>163485</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2010817</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>63</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000353567-06-000067.hdr.sgml : 20061214
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061214091105
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000353567-06-000067
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		13
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061214
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061214

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ICO INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000353567
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC [3089]
		IRS NUMBER:				760566682
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			TX
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08327
		FILM NUMBER:		061275706

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1811 BERING DRIVE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 200
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77057
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7133514100

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1811 BERING DRIVE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 200
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77057

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Nc+n2U1hAz/uhiTefpMY4/QKm1fX8bJ1SxBpPz/bbPA4swljYzp5eOOVvTzmUGXA
 4/PA6du9E+WZ1E2wOjtaSA==

 0000353567-06-000067.txt : 20061214

10-K
 1
 form10k-body.htm
 FY2006 FORM 10-K

FY2006 Form 10-K

UNITED
      STATES  

      SECURITIES
      AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

      WASHINGTON,
      D.C. 20549 

FORM
      10-K  

For
      the
      transition period from   to

Commission
      file number 0 -10068  

        ICO,
      INC.   

      (Exact
      name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant's
      telephone number (713) 351-4100  

       Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: Common Stock, no par
      value.  

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: Preferred Stock, no par
      value.  

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
      in
      Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes
      ___ No       

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
      Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.    Yes
      ___ No       

Indicate
      by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
      be
      filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
      the
      preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
      the
      past 90 days.    Yes
                No
      ___  

Indicate
      by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
      Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
      of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
      incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
      this
      Form 10-K. [  ] 

Indicate
      by checkmark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
      filer, or non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer  and
 large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 

          Large
      accelerated filer  o         Accelerated
      filer    
       Non-accelerated
      filer  o   

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
      12b-2 of the Act).  

       Yes
      ____ No      

The
      aggregate market value of common equity held by non-affiliates of the
      Registrant 

      as
      of
      March 31, 2006 was $119,720,000. 

The
      number of shares outstanding of the registrant's Common Stock 

      as
      of
      December 1, 2006: Common Stock, no par value- 25,824,258 

DOCUMENTS
      INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions
                of the definitive proxy statement for the Registrant s 2007 Annual Meeting
                of Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III of this
                Form
                10-K. Such definitive proxy statement or the information to be so
                incorporated will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
                not
                later than 120 days subsequent to September 30,
                2006. 

Table
          of Contents  

ICO,
      INC.  

2006
      FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT  

        T ABLE
      OF CONTENTS  

Page 

PART
                I   

Item
                1.  

Business  

3  

Item
                1A.  

Risk
                Factors   

7  

Item
                1B.  

Unresolved
                Staff Comments   

10  

Item
                2.  

Properties  

11  

Item
                3.  

Legal
                Proceedings  

12  

Item
                4.  

Submission
                of Matters to a Vote of Security
                Holders  

13  

PART
                II   

Item
                5.  

Market
                for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related
                Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
                Securities  

14  

Item
                6.  

Selected
                Financial Data  

15  

Item
                7.  

Management s
                Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
                and  

Results
                of Operations  

17  

Item
                7A.  

Quantitative
                and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
                Risk  

35  

Item
                8.  

Financial
                Statements and Supplementary
                Data  

36  

Item
                9.  

Changes
                in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
                and  

Financial
                Disclosure  

36  

Item
                9A.  

Controls
                and Procedures  

36  

Item
                9B.  

Other
                Information  

37  

PART
                III   

Item
                10.  

Directors
                and Executive Officers of the
                Registrant  

38  

Item
                11.  

Executive
                Compensation  

38  

Item
                12.  

Security
                Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
                Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

38  

Item
                13.  

Certain
                Relationships and Related
                Transactions  

38  

Item
                14.  

Principal
                Accounting Fees and Services  

38  

PART
                IV   

Item
                15.  

Exhibits
                and Financial Statement
                Schedules  

39  

Table
          of Contents  

P
      A R T    I   

Item
      1. Business   

General  

ICO,
      Inc.
      (together with its subsidiaries  the Company ) was incorporated in 1978 under
      the laws of the state of Texas. The Company manufactures specialty resins and
      concentrates and provides specialized polymers processing services. The
      specialty resins manufactured by the Company are typically produced into a
      powder form. Concentrates produced by the Company generally are mixed by
      customers with base polymer film resins to give plastic films desired
      characteristics, and to reduce customers  raw material costs.   Concentrates
      are polymers loaded with high levels of chemical and organic additives that
      are
      melt blended into base resins to give plastic films and other finished products
      desired physical properties.   The
      Company also provides toll processing services including ambient grinding,
      jet
      milling, compounding and ancillary services for polymer resins produced in
      pellet form as well as other material. These products and services are provided
      through our 18 operating facilities located in 9 countries in North America,
      Europe, Australasia and South America. The Company s customers include major
      chemical companies, polymer production affiliates of major oil exploration
      and
      production companies, and manufacturers of plastic products. 

Manufacturing
      Capabilities  

The
      Company s manufacturing capabilities include size reduction, compounding and
      related services. These services are an intermediate step between the production
      of polymer resins and the manufacture of a wide variety of products such as
      toys, water tanks, paint, garbage bags, plastic film or other polymer products.
      The Company s manufacturing processes are used to produce powders for sale by
      the Company, for toll processing services and to manufacture
      concentrates. 

Size
      reduction.   
      Size
      reduction is a grinding process whereby polymer resins produced by chemical
      manufacturers in pellet form are reduced to a powder form. The majority of
      the
      Company s size reduction services involve ambient grinding, a mechanical
      attrition milling process suitable for products which do not require ultrafine
      particle size and are not highly heat sensitive. The Company also provides
      jet
      milling services used for products requiring very fine particle size such as
      additives for printing ink, adhesives, waxes and cosmetics. Jet milling uses
      high velocity compressed air to reduce materials to sizes between 0.5 and 150
      microns. For materials with special thermal characteristics (such as heat
      sensitive materials), the Company provides cryogenic milling services, which
      use
      liquid nitrogen to chill materials to extremely low temperatures. 

The
      Company primarily processes polyethylene. Other materials processed include
      polyester, polypropylene, nylon, fluorocarbons, cellulose acetates, vinyls,
      phenolics, polyurethane, acrylics, epoxies, and waxes. 

Compounding.
         Compounding
      is an extrusion process whereby plastics and other additives are melt blended
      together to form an alloy resin.      Often
      times the Company compounds material in conjunction with providing size
      reduction services (typically using an ambient grinding process). For example,
      the Company serves many customers by purchasing natural colored resin,
      compounding certain additives into the resin, and then grinding the resulting
      pellet into a powder form. The additives compounded into the base resins are
      determined by the end products to be manufactured by the customer. Compounding
      is performed within substantially all of the Company s facilities. 

Manufacturing
      concentrates is a specialized form of compounding. Bayshore Industrial, the
      Company s largest concentrate manufacturing operation, is located in La Porte,
      Texas. Bayshore produces concentrates for the plastic film industry. The Company
      also has a smaller concentrate manufacturing operation, located in Oyonnax,
      France, which provides high quality color matching and color compounding
      services for the injection molding industry. The Company s concentrate
      manufacturing operations involve the formulation and production of highly
      concentrated compounds of additives that are then combined (by the Company
      or by
      others) with polymer resins to produce materials having specifically desired
      characteristics, such as anti-blocking (to prevent plastic film or sheets from
      sticking together), flame-retardance, color, ultraviolet stabilization, impact
      and tear resistance, or adhesion. The Company's concentrates are produced to
      the
      detailed specifications of customers. These customers are typically resin
      producers or companies that produce plastic films. The concentrate manufacturing
      process requires the combination of up to 25 different additives or fillers
      in
      precise proportions. To be approved as the manufacturer of such concentrates,
      the Company must satisfy rigorous qualification procedures imposed by customers
      on a product-by-product basis. The Company works closely with its concentrate
      customers to research, develop and test the formulations necessary to create
      the
      desired characteristics  

3 

Table
          of Contents  

of
      the
      concentrates to be produced. Such concentrates are produced in batches which
      may
      range from as little as five pounds for a lab sample to as large as four million
      pounds. 

Other
      Manufacturing Services.    The
      Company also offers its customers ancillary polymer processing services in
      connection with size reduction and compounding services. These ancillary
      services include dry blending and mixing of plastics and other additives,
      granulating, packaging and warehousing. 

Facilities.   
      The
      Company operates seven facilities in the United States, six in Europe (located
      in The Netherlands, England, Italy, and France), four in Australasia (located
      in
      New Zealand, Australia and Malaysia) and one in Brazil. Almost all of these
      operations provide toll processing services, sell products into their markets
      and are able to compound materials.  

During
      the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company entered into a lease agreement
      for
      a production facility in Dubai, UAE. This facility will provide size reduction
      and compounding services to the rotational molding industry in the
      region. 

Products
      and Services  

Product
      Sales.        The
      powders produced by the Company in its manufacturing operations are most often
      used to manufacture household items (such as toys, household furniture and
      trash
      receptacles), automobile parts, agricultural products (such as fertilizer and
      water tanks), paint and metal and fabric coatings. Currently, the largest powder
      sales markets of the Company include Western Europe, Australia, New Zealand,
      Malaysia, the United States and Brazil. The Company also exports its powders
      into Africa, the Middle East, and Asia. The Company generally procures the
      raw
      materials for its own account and adds value using its own formulations and
      processes to produce powders. The Company usually performs both size reduction
      and compounding to produce its finished products. 

The
      Company s concentrate products are primarily used by third parties to produce
      plastic films. These products are mostly sold throughout North America. The
      Company s small operation in Oyonnax, France provides high quality color
      concentrates to the injection molding industry in France. 

Toll
      Processing Services.           Toll
      processing services involve processing customer-owned raw materials, rather
      than
      Company-owned raw materials. These toll processing services include size
      reduction, compounding and related services such as granulating and blending
      on
      a service fee basis. 

Customers
      and Pricing  

The
      primary customers of the Company's polymers processing business are large
      producers of polymers (which include major chemical companies and polymers
      production affiliates of major oil production companies) and end users such
      as
      rotational molders. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of worldwide
      sales during fiscal years 2006, 2005 or 2004. The Company has long-term contract
      arrangements with many polymers processing customers whereby it has agreed
      to
      process or manufacture certain polymer products for a single or multi-year
      term
      at an agreed-upon fee structure. 

The
      rotational molding industry is one of the Company s more important target
      markets. The Company provides a significant portion of its size reduction toll
      processing services to customers that are either rotational molders or that
      supply the rotational molding industry. Additionally, many of the polymer
      powders manufactured by the Company are supplied to the rotational molding
      industry. Rotational molding produces plastic products by melting pre-measured
      plastic powder in molds which are heated in an oven while being rotated. The
      melting resin adheres to the hot mold and evenly coats the mold s surface. This
      process offers design advantages over other molding processes, such as injection
      molding, because assembly of multiple parts is unnecessary, consistent wall
      thickness in the finished product can be maintained, tooling is less expensive,
      and molds do not need to be designed to withstand the high pressures inherent
      in
      other forms of molding. Examples of end products which are rotationally molded
      include agricultural tanks, toys and small recreational watercraft. 

Other
      target markets include producers of automotive carpet backing, paint, waxes,
      and
      metal and fabric coatings. 

The
      Company is also a major supplier of concentrates to the plastic film industry
      in
      North America. The concentrates manufactured by the Company are melt-blended
      into base resins to produce plastic film having the desired characteristics.
      The
      Company sells concentrates to both resin producers and to businesses that
      manufacture plastic films. 

4 

Table
          of Contents  

The
      Company provides value-added polymer processing services to customers. The
      Company often purchases and takes into inventory the raw materials necessary
      to
      manufacture products sold to customers. The Company seeks to minimize the risk
      of price fluctuations in raw materials and other supplies by maintaining
      relatively short order cycles; however, maintaining raw materials and finished
      goods inventory exposes the Company to an increased risk of price fluctuations
      (see "Raw Materials").  

Sales
      and Marketing  

The
      Company markets its products and services through a sales force of employees.
      These sales people are responsible for in-depth customer contact and are
      required to be technically knowledgeable and have an understanding of the
      markets they serve. 

Competition  

The
      specialty polymers processing business is highly competitive. Competition is
      based principally on price, quality of service, manufacturing technology,
      proximity to markets, timely delivery and customer service and support. The
      Company's size reduction and toll services competitors are generally smaller
      than the Company and have fewer locations and a more regional emphasis. The
      Company s competitors in the polymer powder sales business tend to be mid-sized
      to large companies. Several companies also maintain significant in-house size
      reduction facilities for their own use. The Company believes that it has been
      able to compete effectively in its markets based on competitive pricing, its
      network of plants, its technical expertise and equipment manufacturing
      capabilities and its range of services, such as flexible storage, packaging
      facilities, and product development. The Company also believes that its
      knowledge of the rotational molding industry, through activities such as
      participation in the Association of Rotational Molders, enhances its competitive
      position with this key customer group. The Company's competitors in the
      concentrates industry include a number of large enterprises, as well as small
      and mid-sized regional companies. The Company believes its technical expertise,
      processing efficiency, high quality product, customer support and pricing have
      enabled it to compete successfully in this market. 

The
      ambient size reduction tolling business lacks substantial barriers to entry,
      but
      cryogenic grinding and jet milling require a more significant investment and
      greater technical expertise. The compounding business, including concentrates
      manufacturing, requires a substantial investment in equipment, as well as
      extensive technical and mechanical expertise. In general, many of the Company's
      customers could perform the specialized polymers processing services provided
      by
      the Company for themselves if they chose to do so, and new competitors may
      enter
      the market from time to time. A number of the Company's competitors and
      potential competitors in this segment have substantially greater financial
      and
      other resources than the Company. 

Business
      Divestitures  

On
      September 6, 2002, the Company completed the sale of substantially all of the
      Company s oilfield services ( Oilfield Services ) business to National Oilwell
      Varco, Inc., formerly Varco International, Inc. ( NOV ). On July 31, 2003, the
      Company sold its remaining Oilfield Services business to Permian Enterprises,
      Ltd. Between May 2003 and March 2004, NOV asserted approximately 30 claims
      for
      contractual indemnity against the Company in connection with the September
      2002
      sale of substantially all of the Company's Oilfield Services business with
      a
      loss range between $16.4 million and $22.0 million. These claims primarily
      related to environmental conditions as defined in the purchase agreement
      pursuant to which the Company sold its Oilfield Services business to NOV. On
      November 21, 2006, the Company settled these claims with NOV for $7.5 million
      consisting of: a cash payment of $1.1 million; release to NOV of the $5.4
      million held in escrow; and a $1.0 million note payable in one year. See  Item
      3. Legal Proceedings  and  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of
      Financial Condition and Results of Operations  for more
      information. 

Environmental
      Regulation  

The
      Company is subject to numerous and changing local, state, federal and foreign
      laws and regulations concerning the use, storage, treatment, disposal and
      general handling of materials, some of which may be considered to be hazardous
      substances and wastes, and restrictions concerning the release of pollutants
      and
      contaminants into the environment. These laws and regulations may require the
      Company to obtain and maintain certain permits and other authorizations
      mandating procedures under which the Company must operate and restrict emissions
      and discharges. Many of these laws and regulations provide for strict joint
      and
      several liabilities for the costs of cleaning up contamination resulting from
      releases of regulated materials, substances and wastes into the environment.
      Violation of these laws and regulations as well as terms and conditions of
      operating permits issued to the Company may result in the imposition of
      administrative, civil, and criminal penalties and fines, remedial actions or,
      in
      more serious situations, shutdowns or revocation of permits or authorizations.
      The Company believes that future compliance by its operating  

5 

Table
          of Contents  

businesses
      with existing laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect
      on
      the Company and that future capital expenditures for environmental remediation
      will not be material. 

The
      Company regularly monitors and reviews its operations, procedures and policies
      for compliance with environmental laws and regulations and the Company's
      operating permits. There can be no assurance that a review of the Company's
      past, present or future operations by courts or federal, state, local or foreign
      regulatory authorities will not result in determinations that could have a
      material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the revocation of any
      of
      the Company's material operating permits, the denial of any material permit
      application or the failure to renew any interim permit, could have a material
      adverse effect on the Company. In addition, compliance with more stringent
      environmental laws and regulations, more vigorous enforcement policies, or
      stricter interpretations of current laws and regulations, or the occurrence
      of
      an industrial accident, could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
      Also, see the discussion concerning environmental remediation issues, including
      those related to the sale of its former Oilfield Services business, in  Item 3.
      Legal Proceedings.  

Insurance
      and Risk  

Except
      for warranties implied by law, the Company does not generally expressly warrant
      the products and services it provides. Nonetheless, if the Company were found
      to
      have been negligent, or to have breached its obligations to its customers,
      or if
      warranties are implied as a matter-of-law (notwithstanding any disclaimer of
      warranty), the Company could be exposed to significant liabilities and its
      reputation could be adversely affected. Likewise, the Company's activities
      as a
      vendor of specialty  

      polymers
      products may result in liability on account of defective products. While the
      Company has an insurance program in effect to address some of these risks,
      the
      insurance coverage is subject to applicable deductibles, exclusions, limitations
      on coverage and policy limits. The occurrence of a significant adverse event,
      the risks of which are not fully covered by insurance, could have a material
      adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations
      or
      net cash flows. Moreover, no assurance can be given that the Company will be
      able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers
      reasonable. See  Item 3. Legal Proceedings.  

Raw
      Materials  

The
      Company purchases and takes into inventory the resins, additives and other
      materials used in its concentrates manufacturing and a portion of its specialty
      polymers distribution business. These materials are subject to fluctuating
      availability and prices. The Company believes that these and other materials
      used in its operations are available from numerous sources and are available
      to
      meet its needs. In addition, the Company believes its relationships with its
      suppliers are good. 

Patents,
      Trademarks and Licenses  

The
      Company holds one United States patent, one United Kingdom patent, one
      Australian patent, and one New Zealand patent covering proprietary technology
      utilized in certain of its services. The Company believes that its patents
      are
      valid and that the duration of its existing patents is satisfactory; however,
      the Company does not believe any single patent is essential to the overall
      successful operation of the Company's business, and the Company's polymers
      processing operations are not materially dependent upon any patents, trademarks,
      or licenses. However, no assurance can be given that one or more of the
      Company's competitors may not be able to develop or produce processes or
      products of comparable or greater quality to those developed or produced by
      the
      Company; that the Company s patents will not be modified, revoked, or found to
      be invalid; or that others will not claim that the Company s products or
      processes infringe upon or use the intellectual property of others.

Employees  

As
      of
      November 30, 2006, the Company employed approximately 831 full-time, part-time
      and temporary employees, 405 of which are located in the United States. Certain
      employees working in Italy, France, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Australia,
      and
      Brazil are parties to collective bargaining agreements. None of the other
      employees are represented by a union. The Company has experienced no significant
      strikes or work stoppages during the past fiscal year and considers its
      relations with its employees to be satisfactory. 

6 

Table
          of Contents  

Financial
      Information About Geographic Areas  

The
      Company's management structure and reportable segments are organized into five
      business segments defined as ICO Polymers North America, ICO Brazil, Bayshore
      Industrial, ICO Europe and ICO Courtenay - Australasia. This organization is
      consistent with the way information is reviewed and decisions are made by
      executive management. Financial information about the Company s segments is
      found in Note 20 to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Available
      Information  

The
      Company s Internet website is http://www.icopolymers.com. Information contained
      on the Company s website is not part of this report or any other report filed
      with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company makes available free
      of
      charge, through its Internet website, the Company s annual reports on Form 10-K,
      quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, as well as its
      other SEC filings, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing
      such materials with or furnishing them to the SEC. In addition, the Company
      makes available through its Internet website the Company s Code of Business
      Ethics and the written charters of the Audit, Compensation and Nominating
      Committees of its Board of Directors, all of which are available in print to
      any
      stockholder who requests them by contacting the Company s Corporate Secretary at
      1811 Bering Drive, Suite 200, Houston, Texas, 77057. 

Item
      1A. Risk Factors   

The
      Company s indebtedness subjects it to restrictive covenants and may limit its
      ability to borrow additional funds and efficiently operate the
      business.   

The
      Company s domestic credit facility ( Credit Facility ) in place as of October
      27, 2006 contains a number of covenants including, among others, limitations
      on
      the ability of the Company and its restricted U.S. subsidiaries to (i) incur
      additional indebtedness, (ii) pay dividends or redeem any common stock, (iii)
      incur liens or other encumbrances on their assets, (iv) enter into transactions
      with affiliates, (v) merge with or into any other entity or (vi) sell any of
      their assets. In addition, any  change of control  of the Company or its
      restricted subsidiaries will constitute a default under the Credit Facility.
      -
 Change of control,  as defined in the credit agreement ( Credit Agreement )
      establishing the Credit Facility, is summarized as follows: (i) the acquisition
      of, or, if earlier, the shareholder or director approval of the acquisition
      of,
      ownership or voting control, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record,
      by any person, entity or group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the SEC
      under the 1934 Act, as then in effect), of shares representing more than 50%
      of
      the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding
      common stock of the Company; (ii) the occupation of a majority of the seats
      (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Company by
      individuals who were neither (A) nominated by the Company s board of directors
      nor (B) appointed by directors so nominated; (iii) the occurrence of a change
      in
      control, or other similar provision, under or with respect to any  Material
      Indebtedness Agreement  (as defined in the Credit Agreement); or (iv) the
      failure of the Company to own directly or indirectly, all of the outstanding
      equity interests of the Company s Bayshore Industrial L.P. and ICO Polymers
      North America, Inc. subsidiaries.  

Changes
      in the cost and availability of polymers could adversely affect the
      Company.   

Polymers
      (i.e., resins) are a key ingredient of the Company s products, and changes in
      the cost and availability of resins (generally produced by the major chemical
      companies) are outside of the Company s control. If resin costs increase,
      whether because of higher oil and gas prices or because of lower supplies,
      the
      Company may be forced to increase the prices at which it sells its products
      to
      our customers. An increase in our prices may result in lower customer demand
      for
      our products and could have a material adverse effect on the Company s results
      of operations. Additionally, higher resin prices will lead to higher working
      capital requirements which could result in higher debt and associated interest
      expense. On the other hand, a perception that resin costs will be declining
      in
      the near future may, in the short term, result in a decrease in customer demand
      for our products as customers wait for lower resin prices to be reflected in
      the
      price of our products, which could also have a material adverse effect on the
      Company s results of operations. 

Changes
      in economic activity could adversely affect the
      Company.   

The
      Company s business cycles are affected by changes in the level of economic
      activity in the various regions in which the Company operates. The Company s
      business cycles are generally volatile and relatively unpredictable. In
      addition, the Company is affected by cycles in the petroleum and oil and gas
      industries. The length of these business cycles is outside of the Company s
      control, and can have a material adverse effect on the Company s results of
      operations and cash flow. 

7 

Table
          of Contents  

The
      Company s success is partly dependent upon the Company s ability to develop
      superior proprietary technology, know-how and trade
      secrets.   

The
      operations of the Company s business are dependent to a certain degree upon
      proprietary technology, know-how and trade secrets developed by the
      Company.  In many cases, these or equivalent processes or technologies are
      available to the Company s competitors, customers and others.  In addition,
      there can be no assurance that such persons will not develop substantially
      equivalent or superior proprietary processes and technologies, or that the
      Company s trade secrets will not lose their proprietary status. The availability
      to, or development by others of equivalent or superior information, processes
      or
      technologies, or the failure to maintain the trade secret status of the
      Company s proprietary technologies and information, could have a material
      adverse effect on the Company. 

The
      failure to properly manage inventories could expose the Company to material
      financial losses.   

The
      Company s product sales business, including the Company s concentrate
      manufacturing operations, requires the Company to buy inventories of supplies
      and products and to manage the risk of ownership of commodity inventories having
      fluctuating market values. The maintenance of excessive inventories in these
      businesses could expose the Company to losses from drops in market prices for
      its products, while maintenance of insufficient inventories may result in lost
      sales to the Company. 

International
      events may hurt the Company s operations.   

A
      majority of the Company s current operations is conducted in international
      markets, particularly the Company s ICO Europe, ICO Brazil, and ICO Courtenay-
      Australasia business segments. The Company expects to continue to seek to expand
      its international operations, primarily through internal growth. The Company s
      international operations are subject to certain political, economic and other
      uncertainties normally associated with international operations, including
      among
      others, risks of government policies regarding private property, taxation
      policies, foreign exchange restrictions and currency fluctuations and other
      restrictions arising out of foreign governmental sovereignty over areas in
      which
      the Company conducts business that may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the
      movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights, and,
      possibly, civil disturbance or other forms of conflict. Losses from the factors
      above could be material in those countries where the Company now has or may
      in
      the future have a concentration of assets. 

Due
      to the Company s lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in its
      industry could materially adversely impact the Company s
      operations.   

The
      Company relies primarily on the revenues generated in the polymer processing
      industry. Due to its lack of asset diversification, an adverse development
      in
      this industry would likely have a significantly greater impact on the Company s
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than if it maintained
      more diverse assets. 

The
      Company s success depends on attracting and maintaining key personnel; the
      failure to do so could disrupt the Company s business
      operations.   

The
      Company s success depends upon our ability to retain and attract experienced and
      knowledgeable management and other professional staff. The Company s results of
      operations depend to a large extent on the efforts, technical expertise and
      continued employment of key personnel and members of our management team. If
      we
      are unable to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable personnel or
      a
      significant number of our existing key personnel resign or become unable to
      continue in their present role without adequate replacements, our business
      operations could be adversely affected. 

8 

Table
            of Contents  

Goodwill
      impairment could occur in the future.   

If
      our
      goodwill becomes impaired the Company may be required to record a significant
      charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill
      is
      required to be tested for impairment at least annually. We may be required
      to
      record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during
      a
      period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. 

The
      Company is prohibited from paying dividends on its Common Stock or redeeming
      or
      repurchasing any of its Common Stock until dividends in arrears on the Preferred
      Stock are paid.   

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, the Company owed an aggregate of $8.2 million of dividends
      in arrears to the holders of the Company s $6.75 Convertible Exchangeable
      Preferred Stock (the  Preferred Stock ). Subsequent to September 30, 2006, the
      Company repurchased 84.8% of the outstanding Preferred Stock, thereby reducing
      the dividends in arrears to $1.2 million. Such undeclared or unpaid Preferred
      Stock dividends will need to be declared and paid before the Company can pay
      a
      dividend on its Common Stock or redeem or repurchase any of its common
      stock.    Payment
      of any dividends in arrears will depend on the financial condition,
      results of operations and capital requirements of the Company, as well as other
      factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors  ,
      and
      there can be no assurance that the Board of Directors will declare dividends
      on
      the Preferred Stock in the future. 

The
      Company may have additional tax liabilities.   

The
      Company is subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous
      foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our
      worldwide provision for income taxes. Although the Company believes its tax
      estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related
      litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in
      historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on the results of an audit
      or litigation, a material adverse effect on the Company s income tax provision,
      net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination
      is made could result.  

Operational
      risks such as personal injury, property damages, pollution and environmental
      damages could adversely affect the Company s
      business.   

The
      operations of the Company involve many risks, which, even through a combination
      of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation, may not be overcome. These
      risks include equipment or product failures or work related accidents which
      could also result in personal injury, property damages, pollution and other
      environmental risks. The Company may not be fully insured against possible
      losses pursuant to such risks. Such losses could have a material adverse impact
      on the Company. In addition, from time to time, the Company is involved in
      various litigation matters arising in the ordinary course of its business and
      is
      currently involved in numerous legal proceedings in connection with its
      operations and those of its acquired and disposed of companies. There can be
      no
      assurance that the Company will not incur substantial liability as a result
      of
      these or other proceedings. The Company is subject to numerous and changing
      local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations concerning the use,
      storage, treatment, disposal and general handling of hazardous materials, some
      of which may be considered to be hazardous wastes, and restricting releases
      of
      pollutants and contaminants into the environment. These laws and regulations
      may
      require the Company to obtain and maintain certain permits and other
      authorizations mandating procedures under which the Company will operate and
      restricting emissions. Many of these laws and regulations provide for strict
      joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up   contamination
      resulting from releases of regulated materials into the environment. Violations
      of mandatory procedures under operating permits may result in fines, remedial
      actions or, in more serious instances, shutdowns or revocation of permits or
      authorizations. There can be no assurance that a review of the Company s past,
      present or future operations by courts or federal, state, local or foreign
      regulatory authorities will not result in determinations that could have a
      material adverse effect on the Company s financial condition, results of
      operations or cash flows. In addition, the revocation of any of the Company s
      material operating permits, the denial of any material permit application or
      the
      failure to renew any material interim permit could have a material adverse
      effect on the Company. The Company cannot predict what environmental laws and
      regulations will be enacted or adopted in the future or how such future law
      or
      regulation will be administered or interpreted. To date, the Company has
      incurred   compliance
      and clean-up costs in connection with environmental laws and regulations and
      there can be no assurance as to future costs. In particular, compliance with
      more stringent environmental laws and regulations, more vigorous enforcement
      policies, or stricter interpretations of current laws and regulations, or the
      occurrence of an industrial accident, could have a material adverse effect
      on
      the Company. 

9 

Table
          of Contents  

Future
      environmental, personal injury, and other claims relating to the Company s
      former Oilfield Services business could adversely affect the Company s financial
      condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.   

In
      2002  ,
      the
      Company completed the sale of substantially all of the Company s oilfield
      services ( Oilfield Services ) business to National Oilwell Varco, Inc.,
      formerly Varco International, Inc. ( NOV ). In 2003, the Company sold its
      remaining Oilfield Services business to Permian Enterprises, Ltd. ( Permian ).
      NOV and Permian purchased the assets and business of the Company s Oilfield
      Services business, but only acquired limited responsibility for liabilities
      of
      the Company s former Oilfield Services business relating to events occurring
      prior to the closing of the referenced divestitures.  Among the pre-closing
      liabilities retained by the Company are potential environmental claims
      including, without limitation, Superfund claims relating to off-site disposal
      of
      hazardous materials prior to the Closing, potential claims by employees,
      contractors, and others for occupational injuries, as well as other types of
      claims. There are currently no Superfund claims or other environmental claims
      pending against the Company that are expected to have a material adverse effect
      on the Company s business  ,
      except
      as described under the   heading
       Environmental Claims  in  Item 3. Legal Proceedings  below. There are currently
      no silicosis or other occupational injury claims pending that are expected
      to
      have a material adverse effect on the Company s business  .
      However, since the late 1990 s the Company has settled claims of approximately
      thirty-five former employees of the Company s former Oilfield Services business
      who allegedly sustained personal injuries and/death as a result of occupational
      exposure to silica, and in the past the Company has been a party to and settled
      other environmental and occupational injury claims related to the Company s
      former Oilfield Services business. There can be no assurance that in the future
      there will not be new environmental claims, occupational injury claims, or
      other
      claims, including resulting from activities or conditions involving the
      Company s former Oilfield Services business and occurring prior to the sale of
      the Oilfield Services business, having a material adverse effect on the
      Company's financial condition, results of operations and/or cash
      flows. 

Competition
      in our industry is intense, and we are smaller and have a more limited operating
      history than some of our competitors     .  

The
      industry in which the Company operates is highly competitive. Some competitors
      or potential competitors of the Company have substantially greater financial
      or
      other resources than the Company. L  arger
      competitors may be able to absorb the burden of any changes in federal, state
      and local laws and regulations or rising costs of raw materials more easily
      than
      we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position.   The
      inability of the Company to effectively compete in its markets would have a
      material adverse effect on the Company. 

Certain
      litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial
      condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.   

The
      Company is party to various legal proceedings. There can be no assurance that
      adverse results in such matters will not have a material adverse effect on
      the
      Company. See  Item 3. Legal Proceedings   .   

Item
      1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   

None. 

10 

Table
          of Contents  

Item
      2. Properties   

The
      location and approximate acreage of the Company's operating facilities at
      November 30, 2006, together with an indication of the services performed at
      such
      facilities are set forth below. Other than the Company s corporate headquarters
      in Houston, Texas, all properties consist of polymers processing facilities
      with
      adjacent offices. The  Services  column below describes the services either
      performed for customers at the location or performed on Company-owned materials
      to produce the Company s products. 

The
      Company s Bayshore Industrial segment owns and operates the La Porte, Texas
      location; all other U.S. locations (other than the corporate headquarters)
      are
      operated by the Company s ICO Polymers North America segment. The Australian,
      New Zealand, Malaysian and Dubai locations are operated by the Company s
      ICO-Courtenay Australasian segment. The six European locations are operated
      by
      the Company s ICO Europe segment, and the property leased in Brazil is the sole
      location of the Company s ICO Brazil segment. 

N/A
      = Not
      applicable 

The
      leased properties listed above have various expiration dates through 2016.
      The
      Company is currently operating most of its facilities (with the exception of
      its
      Bayshore Industrial, La Porte, Texas location) below full capacity which allows
      the Company to increase its level of volumes utilizing existing facilities.
      Most
      of the polymers processing facilities are operating 24 hours per day, five
      days
      per week. 

11 

Table
          of Contents  

Item
      3. Legal Proceedings   

Varco
      Indemnification Claims.   
      Between
      May 2003 and March 2004, approximately 30 claims for contractual indemnity
      were
      asserted against the Company by Varco International, Inc. (n/k/a National
      Oilwell Varco, Inc., hereinafter  NOV ) in connection with the September 2002
      sale of substantially all of the Company's oilfield services ("Oilfield
      Services") business to NOV. NOV s indemnity demands were based on its contention
      that the Company breached a number of representations and warranties in the
      purchase agreement dated July 2, 2002 pursuant to which the Company sold the
      Oilfield Services business to NOV (the  Purchase Agreement ) and that certain
      expenses or damages that NOV has incurred or may incur in the future constitute
      "excluded liabilities" as defined in the Purchase Agreement. NOV alleged that
      the expected loss range for its indemnity claims was between $16.4 million
      and
      $22.0 million. A portion of those indemnity demands (representing aggregate
      losses of approximately $0.4 million) related to product liability claims.
      The
      balance of the indemnity demands related to alleged historical contamination
      or
      alleged non-compliance with environmental rules at approximately 26 former
      Company properties located in both the United States and Canada.  

The
      Company s contractual indemnification obligation to NOV was subject to certain
      limitations, including the obligation of NOV to bear 50% of any losses
      relating to environmental matters in excess of the $1.0 million threshold,
      up to
      a maximum aggregate loss borne by NOV in respect of such environmental matters
      of $4.0 million (in addition to the $1.0 million threshold). At the time of
      the
      sale in September 2002, the Company had placed $5.0 million of the sale proceeds
      in escrow to be used to pay for indemnification obligations, should they arise.
      The $5.0 million in proceeds was included in the gain on the sale of the
      Oilfield Services business recognized in fiscal year 2002. In the third quarter
      of fiscal 2004 the Company deemed the $5.0 million receivable of the escrowed
      sales proceeds to be a doubtful collection, due to the continued inability
      of
      the parties to reach an agreement regarding the size of NOV s indemnifiable
      loss. The $5.0 million reserve, net of income taxes, was recorded in the
      Consolidated Statement of Operations as a component of loss from discontinued
      operations. 

On
      November 21, 2006, the Company entered into an agreement settling all of the
      pending indemnity claims asserted by NOV. In exchange for a complete release
      of
      claims and indemnity agreement, the Company agreed to a $7.5 million payment
      consisting of: a cash payment of approximately $1.1 million; release to NOV
      of
      the approximately $5.4 million currently held in escrow (consisting of the
      $5.0
      million of sales proceeds placed in escrow for potential indemnity obligations
      plus interest); and a $1.0 million note payable in one year. As a result of
      the
      settlement, the Company recognized a pre-tax charge through discontinued
      operations of $2.1 million ($1.4 million after taxes) during its fiscal fourth
      quarter ended September 30, 2006. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, the
      Company is absolved of and shall be indemnified for NOV s indemnity claims
      previously asserted, as well as specified future environmental liabilities
      relating to the properties transferred to NOV and its affiliates; however,
      except as set forth in the settlement agreement, the Company continues to be
      responsible for  excluded liabilities  as defined in the Purchase
      Agreement. 

Thibodaux
      Litigation   .
      Since
      September 2004, the Company has been a defendant in litigation pending in
      District Court in the Parish of Orleans, Louisiana (the  Thibodaux Lawsuit )
      filed by C.M. Thibodaux Company ( Thibodaux ). Other defendants in the case
      include Intracoastal Tubular Services, Inc. ( ITCO ), thirty different oil
      companies (the  Oil Company Defendants ), several insurance companies and four
      trucking companies. Thibodaux, the owner of industrial property located in
      Amelia, Louisiana that has historically been leased to tenants conducting
      oilfield services businesses, contends that the property has been contaminated
      with naturally occurring radioactive material ( NORM ). NORM is found naturally
      occurring in the earth, and when pipe is removed from the ground it is not
      uncommon for the corroded rust on the pipe to contain very small amounts of
      NORM. The Company s former Oilfield Services business leased a portion of the
      subject property from Thibodaux. Thibodaux contends that the subject property
      was contaminated with NORM generated during the servicing of oilfield equipment
      by the Company and other tenants, and further alleges that the Oil Company
      Defendants (customers of Thibodaux s tenants) and trucking companies (which
      delivered tubular goods and other oilfield equipment to the subject property)
      allowed or caused the uncontrolled dispersal of NORM on Thibodaux s property.
      Thibodaux seeks recovery from the Defendants for clean-up costs, diminution
      or
      complete loss of property values, and other damages. Discovery in the Thibodaux
      Lawsuit is ongoing, and the Company intends to assert a vigorous defense in
      this
      litigation. An adverse judgment against the Company in the lawsuit could
  have
      a
      material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of
      operations and/or cash flows. 

Environmental
      Remediation.   
      The
      Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as
      amended ( CERCLA ), also known as  Superfund,  and comparable state laws impose
      liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on
      certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release
      of a  hazardous substance  into the environment. These persons include the owner
      or operator of the disposal site or the site where the release occurred, and
      companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances
      at the site where the release occurred. Under CERCLA, such persons may be
      subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the
      hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages
      to natural resources, and for the costs of certain health studies, and it is
      not

12 

Table
          of Contents  

uncommon
      for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal
      injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous
      substances into the environment. The Company, through acquisitions that it has
      made, is identified as one of many potentially responsible parties ( PRPs )
      under CERCLA in four claims relating to the following sites: (i) the French
      Limited site northeast of Houston, Texas; (ii) the Sheridan Disposal Services
      site near Hempstead, Texas; (iii) the Combe Fill South Landfill site in Morris
      County, New Jersey; and (iv) the Malone Service Company (MSC) Superfund site
      in
      Texas City, Texas. 

Active
      remediation of the French Limited site was concluded in 1996. If the Company
      is
      required to contribute to the costs of additional remediation at that site,
      it
      is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company. With regard
      to
      the three remaining Superfund sites, the Company believes it remains responsible
      for only    de
      minimus   
      levels
      of wastes contributed to those sites, and that there are numerous other PRPs
      identified at each of these sites that contributed significantly larger volumes
      of wastes to the sites. The Company expects that its share of any allocated
      liability for cleanup of the Sheridan Disposal Services site, and the Combe
      Fill
      South Landfill site will not be significant, and based on the Company s current
      understanding of the remedial status of each of these sites, together with
      its
      relative position in comparison to the many other PRPs at those sites, the
      Company does not expect its future environmental liability with respect to
      those
      sites to have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial condition,
      results of operation, and/or cash flows. The Company has been involved in
      settlement discussions relating to the MSC site, and does not expect its
      liability with respect to this site to have a material adverse effect on the
      Company s financial condition. 

Tank
      Failure Claim   .
      In
      September 2003, the Company's U.K. subsidiary was served by one of its former
      customers in a lawsuit filed in the High Court of Justice, Queen's Bench
      Division, Salford Court Registry Division in the U.K.  The customer claims
      that above-ground oil storage tanks that it manufactured with colored resin
      purchased from the Company between 1997 and 2001 have failed or are
      expected to fail, and that such failure is the result of the unsatisfactory
      quality and/or unfitness for purpose of the Company's resin.  In pleadings
      filed with the Court the customer seeks recovery from the Company for the
      customer's costs incurred in replacing failed tanks, lost profits, pre-judgment
      interest, legal expenses, and other unspecified damages.  The customer is
      seeking recovery for 1,022 failed tanks as of November 30, 2005, and the
      customer s forensic accountants contend that the customer s replacement costs
      and other losses incurred to date by the customer relating to the failed tanks
      (excluding interest and legal expenses) are approximately $0.8 million. The
      Company denies that it is liable to the customer, and attributes the alleged
      defects to tank design flaws, inconsistent and uncontrolled manufacturing
      processes and procedures, insufficient recordkeeping, and failure to perform
      routine quality control testing, none of which are the responsibility of the
      Company.  Furthermore, the Company s forensic accountants believe that the
      customer s forensic accountants  estimate of the customer s costs associated
      with failed tanks incurred to date is significantly inflated. It is difficult
      to
      estimate the number of additional tanks manufactured with the resin at issue
      that might prematurely fail and for which the customer may seek recovery, based
      in part on the customer's failure to produce production records and proper
      evidence of material traceability, and the wide variation in failure rates
      by
      tank model as reported by the customer. The failure patterns (including the
      customer's acknowledgement that certain tank models have extremely high failure
      rates, while other models manufactured during the same time frame with the
      same
      resin have negligible failure rates) strongly support the Company's opinion
      that
      the failures are attributed to design defects. 

In
      the
      event that the Company's colored resin is found to have caused or contributed
      to
      the failures, the Company shall be entitled to indemnity for fifty percent
      (50%)
      of its damages from the supplier of the base resin used by the Company to
      manufacture the colored resin. The Company will also be entitled to partial
      indemnity from its insurance carriers in the event that it is found to have
      any
      liability in this case. Both of the Company s insurers have reimbursed a portion
      of the Company s defense costs, and additional defense cost reimbursements are
      forthcoming. The case has been scheduled for trial commencing in February 2007.
      The Company believes that the customer's claims are without merit, and will
      continue to vigorously defend its position in this case.  However, if
      an adverse judgment is obtained against the Company which is ultimately
      determined not to be covered by insurance it may have a material adverse effect
      on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and/or cash
      flows. 

Other
      Legal Proceedings.   
      The
      Company is also named as a defendant in certain other lawsuits arising in the
      ordinary course of business. The outcome of these lawsuits cannot be predicted
      with certainty, but the Company does not believe they will have a material
      adverse effect on the Company s financial condition, results of operations, or
      cash flows. 

Item
      4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
      Holders   

None. 

13 

Table
          of Contents  

P
      A R T    I I   

Item
      5.  Market for the Registrant s Common Equity and Related
      Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
      Securities  

The
      Company s Common Stock trades on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol ICOC.
      There were 409 shareholders of record of the Company s Common Stock at November
      20, 2006.  

The
      Company has not declared or paid Common Stock dividends during 2006, 2005,
      and
      2004, respectively. The Company currently has no plans to declare a Common
      Stock
      dividend. 

The
      Company s former domestic credit facility with Wachovia Bank National
      Association, which was terminated on October 27, 2006, restricted the Company s
      ability to pay dividends on Common Stock. The Company s new domestic credit
      facility also requires that the Company must not be in default under the
      facility and must be in compliance with the financial covenants contained in
      the
      credit agreement in order to pay common stock dividends (see Item 7-
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources  and Note 10 to the Company s
      Consolidated Financial Statements). 

The
      Company is prohibited from paying Common Stock dividends   until
      all
      dividends in arrears are paid to the holders of the depositary shares
      representing the Company s $6.75 Convertible Exchangeable Preferred Stock (the
 Preferred Stock ).   Quarterly
      dividends (which would have been in an aggregate amount of $544,000 per quarter
      prior to the reduction in outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock following
      the repurchase of a portion of the Preferred Stock described in the next
      paragraph and any subsequent repurchases) have not been paid or declared on
      the
      Preferred Stock since January 1, 2003, and   dividends
      in arrears as of September 30, 2006 aggregated $8.2 million.  
      After
      the Company failed to declare and pay a dividend on the Preferred Stock for
      six
      consecutive quarters through June 30, 2004, the   holders
      of the Preferred Stock elected two additional directors to the Company s Board
      of Directors in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. However, after the conclusion
      of the 2006 fiscal year, the Company repurchased a portion of its Preferred
      Stock as described below, and it is possible that additional repurchases may
      occur.   Any
      undeclared or unpaid Preferred Stock dividends on shares of Preferred Stock
      that
      remain in arrears will need to be declared and paid before the Company can
      pay a
      dividend on its Common Stock or redeem or repurchase any of its Common Stock.
      The Board of Directors must determine that payment of dividends is in the best
      interests of the Company prior to declaring dividends, and there can be no
      assurance that the Board of Directors will declare dividends on the Preferred
      Stock in the future. 

On
      October 3, 2006, the holders of approximately 80.9% of the voting power of
      the
      Preferred Stock proposed and approved amendments to the Company s Statement of
      Designations for its Preferred Stock, which became effective November 13, 2006.
        The
      amendments authorize the Company to repurchase shares of Preferred Stock while
      dividends on shares of Preferred Stock are in arrears. The amendments also
        terminate  
      the
  right
      of
      holders of Preferred Stock to elect up to two directors while dividends payable
      to holders of Preferred Stock are in arrears, when there are fewer than 80,000
      shares of Preferred Stock outstanding (or 320,000  Depositary Shares,  each
      representing 1/4 of a share of Preferred Stock). Through December 11, 2006,
      the
      Company repurchased 273,538 shares of Preferred Stock (represented by
  1,094,153
      Depositary Shares), or 84.8% of the authorized and outstanding Preferred Stock
      for $26.00 per Depositary Share for total consideration of $28.4 million. The
      dividends that were in arrears on these 1,094,153 Depositary Shares were
      extinguished by the repurchase. Therefore, dividends in arrears as of December
      11, 2006 aggregate only $1.2 million rather than the $8.2 million in arrears
      as
      of September 30, 2006.  
      This
      repurchase also leaves fewer than 80,000 shares of Preferred Stock (represented
      by fewer than 320,000 Depositary Shares) outstanding, and thus, terminated
      the
      right of the holders of the Preferred Stock to elect special directors. Except
      as described in the preceding sentences, the referenced amendments to the
      Statement of Designations for the Preferred Stock do not effect the rights
      of
      the holders of Preferred Stock and Common Stock. The number of authorized shares
      of Preferred Stock and Common Stock are not affected by the foregoing; however,
      the Company plans to retire the Preferred Stock that has been repurchased and
      that may be repurchased in future transactions. 

14 

Table
          of Contents  

The
      following table sets forth the high and low trading prices for the Company s
      Common Stock as reported on the Nasdaq Global Market. 

Item
      6.  Selected Financial Data  

The
      following table sets forth selected financial data of the Company that has
      been
      derived from audited consolidated financial statements. The selected financial
      data should be read in conjunction with the Company s Consolidated Financial
      Statements and Notes thereto, included elsewhere in this report. 

During
      fiscal 2006, an error was discovered in how the Company s previously reported
      earnings per share were calculated. The Company did not deduct undeclared and
      unpaid Preferred Stock dividends of $544,000 per quarter and $2,176,000 per
      year, beginning with the quarter ended March 31, 2003, that accrue to the
      liquidation preference of the Company s outstanding Preferred Stock from net
      income (loss) in calculating earnings per share. The Company has restated its
      earnings per share for each of the years in the three-year period ended
      September 30, 2005. The restatement does not impact previously reported
      revenues, cash flow, net income (loss) or balance sheet components. 

15 

Table
          of Contents  

(1)    
             
                The
                Company has presented the measurement gross profit that is not calculated
                in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ), but
                is derived from relevant items in the Company s GAAP financials. The
                Company presents this measurement because the Company uses this
                measurement as an indicator of the income the Company generates from
                its
                revenues. The material limitation of this Non-GAAP measurement is
                that it
                excludes depreciation expense. The Company mitigates this limitation
                by
                the provision of the specific detailed computation of the measure
                and
                ensuring that this Non-GAAP measure is no more prominent in the Company s
                filings than GAAP measures of
                profitability. 

Table
          of Contents  

Item
      7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results of Operations  

Introduction  

The
      Company s revenues are primarily derived from (1) product sales and (2) toll
      services in the polymers processing industry. Product sales entail the Company
      purchasing resin (primarily   polyethylene  )
      and
      other raw materials which are further processed within the Company s operating
      facilities. The further processing of the material may involve size reduction
      services and/or compounding services. Compounding services involve melt blending
      various resins and additives to produce a homogeneous material. Compounding
      services include the manufacture and sale of concentrates. Concentrates are
      polymers loaded with high levels of chemical and organic additives that are
      melt
      blended into base resins to give plastic films and other finished products
      desired physical properties. After processing, the Company sells the finished
      products to customers. Toll services involve both size reduction and compounding
      services whereby these services are performed on customer owned
      material. 

The
      Company s management structure and reportable segments are organized into five
      business segments defined as ICO Polymers North America, ICO Brazil, Bayshore
      Industrial, ICO Europe and ICO Courtenay - Australasia.  This organization
      is consistent with the way information is reviewed and decisions are made by
      executive management. 

17 

Table
          of Contents  

ICO
      Polymers North America, ICO Brazil, ICO Europe and ICO Courtenay - Australasia
      primarily produce competitively priced polymer powders for the rotational
      molding industry as well as other specialty markets for powdered polymers,
      including masterbatch and concentrate producers, users of polymer-based metal
      coatings, and non-woven textile markets. Masterbatches are concentrates that
      incorporate all additives a customer needs into a single package for a
      particular product manufacturing process, as opposed to requiring numerous
      packages. Additionally, these segments provide specialty size reduction services
      on a tolling basis.  Tolling  refers to processing customer owned material for a
      service fee. The Bayshore Industrial segment designs and produces proprietary
      concentrates, masterbatches and specialty compounds, primarily for the plastic
      film industry, in North America and in selected export markets. The Company s
      ICO Europe segment includes operations in France, Holland, Italy and the
      U.K.  The Company s ICO Courtenay - Australasia segment includes operations
      in Australia, Malaysia and New Zealand. 

Cost
      of
      sales and services is primarily comprised of purchased raw materials (resins
      and
      various additives), compensation and benefits to non-administrative employees,
      electricity, repair and maintenance, occupancy costs and supplies. Selling,
      general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and
      related benefits paid to the sales and marketing, executive management,
      information technology, accounting, legal, human resources and other
      administrative employees of the Company, other sales and marketing expenses,
      communications costs, systems costs, insurance costs, consulting costs and
      legal
      and professional accounting fees. 

Demand
      for the Company s products and services tend to be driven by overall economic
      factors and, particularly, consumer spending. The trend of applicable resin
      prices also impacts customer demand. As resin prices are falling, customers
      tend
      to reduce their inventories and, therefore, reduce their need for the Company s
      products and services as customers choose to purchase resin upon demand rather
      than building large levels of inventory. Conversely, as resin prices are rising,
      customers often increase their inventories and accelerate their purchases of
      products and services from the Company to help control their raw material costs.
      Additionally, demand for the Company s products and services tends to be
      seasonal, with customer demand historically being weakest during the Company s
      first fiscal quarter due to the holiday season and also due to property taxes
      levied in the U.S. on customers  inventories on January 1. The Company s fourth
      fiscal quarter also tends to be softer compared to the Company s second and
      third fiscal quarters, in terms of customer demand, due to vacation periods
      in
      the Company s European markets. However, demand during the Company s fourth
      fiscal quarter of 2006 and 2005 was the strongest demand of all quarters within
      fiscal years 2006 and 2005 in part due to rising resin prices. 

Critical
      Accounting Policies  

The
      Company s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of
      operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have
      been
      prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
      United States of America. The consolidated financial statements are impacted
      by
      the accounting policies used and the estimates and assumptions made by
      management during their preparation. Management believes the following critical
      accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used
      in
      the preparation of the Company s consolidated financial statements. 

Use
      of Estimates -         The
      preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
      accounting principles in the United States requires management to make estimates
      and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities
      and
      disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, if any, at the date of the
      financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
      the reporting period. The more significant areas requiring use of estimates
      relate to employee benefit liabilities, valuation allowances for deferred tax
      assets, workers compensation, inventory reserves, allowance for doubtful
      accounts related to accounts receivable and commitments and
      contingencies. 

Estimates
      surrounding employee benefit liabilities are related to the Company maintaining
      a partially self-insured medical plan in the United States (with stop loss
      insurance coverage limiting the Company s expense to $0.1 million per covered
      person per year). Estimates are required in evaluating the Company s medical
      expense incurred, but not paid due to the timing difference between when an
      employee receives medical care and the time the claim is processed and paid
      by
      the Company (typically a two to three month timing difference). The valuation
      of
      deferred tax assets is based upon estimates of future pretax income in
      determining the ability to realize the deferred tax assets in each taxing
      jurisdiction. Estimates for workers  compensation liabilities are due to the
      Company being partially self-insured in the United States (with the exception
      of
      fiscal year 2004) with stop loss insurance coverage limiting the Company s
      expense to $0.2 million per claim in fiscal year 2006, a decrease from $0.3
      million in fiscal year 2005. Estimates are made for ultimate costs associated
      with open workers  compensation claims as well as for claims not yet reported.
      Inventory reserves are estimated based upon the Company s review of its
      inventory. This review requires the Company to estimate the fair market value
      of
      certain inventory that has become old or obsolete. Determining the amount of
      the
      allowance for doubtful accounts involves estimating the collectibility of
      customer accounts receivable balances. Estimates surrounding commitments and
      contingencies are related primarily to litigation claims for which the Company
      evaluates the circumstances  

18 

Table
          of Contents  

surrounding
      the claims to determine how much expense, if any, the Company should record.
      Actual results could differ from the estimates discussed above. Management
      believes that its estimates are reasonable. 

Revenue
      and Related Cost Recognition -    The
      Company s accounting policy regarding revenue recognition is to recognize
      revenue when all of the following criteria are met: 

Persuasive
                evidence of an arrangement exists: The Company has received an order
                from
                a customer. 

Delivery
                has occurred or services have been rendered: For product sales, revenue
                recognition occurs when title and risk of ownership have passed to
                the
                customer. For service revenue, revenue recognition occurs upon the
                completion of service. 

Seller s
                price to the buyer is fixed or determinable: Sales prices are agreed
                with
                the customer before delivery has occurred or the services have been
                rendered. 

Collectibility
                is reasonably assured: The Company has a customer credit policy to
                ensure
                collectibility is reasonably
                assured. 

Impairment
      of Property, Plant and Equipment -    Property,
      plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever an event or change
      in
      circumstances indicates the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets
      may
      not be recoverable. The impairment review includes comparison of undiscounted
      future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or group of assets
      with
      the associated assets  carrying value. If the carrying value of the asset or
      group of assets exceeds the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without
      interest charges), an impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the
      carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. 

Goodwill
      -    The
      Company tests annually for impairment (and in interim periods if certain events
      occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill and/or indefinite-lived
      intangible assets may be impaired) using the discounted cash flow method in
      accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible
      Assets.  The Company s goodwill is recorded in Bayshore Industrial, Inc. and ICO
      Courtenay-Australasia. The Company completed its annual impairment testing
      and
      did not have impairment losses of goodwill in fiscal years 2006, 2005 or
      2004. 

Stock
      Options -   
      Effective October 1, 2005, SFAS No. 123R,    Share-Based
      Payment   ,
      became
      effective for the Company. This standard requires, among other things, a Company
      to expense share-based payment transactions using the grant-date fair value
      based method. The Company prospectively adopted the fair value recognition
      provisions of SFAS No. 123 on October 1, 2002, thus the revised standard does
      not have a material impact on the Company s financial statements. Outstanding
      awards under the Company s plans vest over periods ranging from immediate
      vesting to four years. The Company expenses the fair value of stock option
      grants that vest over a vesting period over the applicable vesting
      period. 

Income
      Taxes    
      -   
      The
      provision for income taxes includes federal, state, and foreign income taxes
      currently payable and deferred based on currently enacted tax laws. Deferred
      income taxes are provided for the tax consequences of differences between the
      financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities. The Company reduces
      deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance when, based on its estimates,
      it is
      more likely than not that a portion of those assets will not be realized in
      a
      future period. 

Liquidity
      and Capital Resources  

The
      following are considered by management as key measures of liquidity applicable
      to the Company: 

Cash
      and
      cash equivalents increased $14.2 million and working capital increased $16.1
      million during fiscal year 2006 due to the factors described below. 

19 

Table
          of Contents  

Cash
      Flows  

Cash
      Flows From Operating Activities  

Net
      cash
      provided by operating activities by continuing operations during the fiscal
      year
      ended September 30, 2006 improved $8.6 million compared to the fiscal year
      ended
      September 30, 2005. Most of the $8.6 million increase was due to an improvement
      in income from continuing operations of $8.5 million, offset partially by
      changes in certain working capital accounts. An increase in accounts payable
      and
      income tax payable were sources of cash during the year. The increase in
      accounts payable was due to higher purchasing levels to support higher sales
      levels in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. The increase in income
      taxes
      payable was due to not being required to make U.S. estimated tax deposits during
      fiscal year 2006 as a result of the minimal U.S. taxable income in fiscal year
      2005. The Company will make its required fiscal year 2006 U.S. tax payment
      of
      approximately $3.4 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. These
      sources of cash were offset by the use of cash in accounts receivable and
      inventory. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to an increase
      in revenues of $16.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2006
      compared to the three months ended September 30, 2005. The increase in inventory
      was due to higher average raw material prices. 

For
      the
      years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, cash provided by operating activities
      by continuing operations was $4.8 million. Cash used for accounts receivable
      decreased to $4.0 million from cash used of $9.5 million in the prior year
      due
      to a larger increase in accounts receivable in the prior year due to the growth
      in revenues in fiscal year 2004. Cash used for inventory decreased to $2.6
      million from cash used of $7.1 million in the prior year due to a larger
      increase in inventory in the prior year due to the growth in sales volumes
      in
      fiscal year 2004. Cash used relating to a decline in accounts payable was $0.5
      million during fiscal year 2005, compared to cash generated of $8.5 million
      in
      the prior year, due to the timing of inventory purchases within the Company s
      ICO Europe business segment. 

Cash
      used
      for discontinued operations during fiscal year 2006 declined from $0.8 million
      to $0.4 million due primarily to lower legal expenses related to discontinued
      operations. 

Cash
      used
      for discontinued operations for the year ended September 30, 2005 improved
      to
      cash used of $0.8 million compared to cash used of $1.4 million for the year
      ended September 30, 2004. This improvement was due to higher payments in the
      previous year related to Oilfield Services business liabilities retained. The
      cash used of $0.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2005 was primarily
      related to legal expenses and payments for Oilfield Services business
      liabilities retained. 

The
      Company expects that its working capital, over time, will continue to grow
      due
      to an increase in sales revenues which requires the Company to purchase raw
      materials and maintain inventory, and therefore increases the Company s accounts
      receivables and inventory. In addition, rising resin prices would also have
      the
      effect of increasing working capital. 

Cash
      Flows Used for Investing Activities  

Capital
      expenditures totaled $8.1 million during the fiscal year ended September 30,
      2006 and were related primarily to expanding the Company s production capacity.
      Approximately 45% of the $8.1 million of capital expenditures was spent at
      the
      Company s Bayshore subsidiary to add a production line that increased the
      facility s capacity by approximately 10%. The Company spent approximately $1.3
      million to upgrade existing equipment and to maintain existing production
      capacity. 

Capital
      expenditures totaled $5.0 million during the year ended September 30, 2005
      and
      were related primarily to upgrading the Company s production facilities.
      Approximately 67% of the $5.0 million of capital expenditures was spent in
      the
      Company s ICO Polymers North America and ICO Europe business segments. The
      Company spent approximately $2.3 million to upgrade existing equipment and
      to
      maintain existing production capacity. 

20 

Table
          of Contents  

During
      the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company completed the sale of vacant
      land
      for net proceeds of $0.9 million and recorded a pre-tax gain of
      $65,000. 

Cash
      Flows Provided (Used For) Financing Activities  

Cash
      provided by financing activities increased during the fiscal year ended
      September 30, 2006 to $9.0 million compared to $1.5 million during the fiscal
      year ended September 30, 2005. The change was primarily the result of completing
      several financing arrangements within the Company s U.S. and European
      subsidiaries. 

Cash
      provided by (used for) financing activities during the year ended September
      30,
      2005 was cash provided of $1.5 million compared to cash used of $(1.4) million
      during the year ended September 30, 2004. The change was primarily the result
      of
      completing several financing arrangements within the Company s U.S. and European
      subsidiaries which totaled approximately $12.0 million during fiscal 2005.
      Term
      debt repayments increased $6.8 million compared to the prior year primarily
      due
      to the early retirement of $7.1 million of the Company s 10 3/8% Series B Senior
      Notes during fiscal 2005, at par value. 

Financing
      Arrangements  

The
      Company maintains several lines of credit. Total credit availability net of
      outstanding borrowings, letters of credit and applicable foreign currency
      contracts increased $6.6 million to $41.1 million at September 30, 2006 from
      $34.5 million at September 30, 2005. The facilities are collateralized by
      certain assets of the Company. Borrowings under these agreements totaled $18.0
      million and $10.0 million at September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005,
      respectively. 

During
      fiscal year 2006, the Company closed on numerous refinancings in order to
      increase the Company s liquidity and lower the Company s cost of debt. In total,
      the Company obtained new term loans of $11.9 million, within the Company s U.S.
      and European subsidiaries and expanded certain credit facilities. The Company
      repaid $11.0 million of long-term debt, including the redemption of the
      remaining $3.0 million 10 3/8% Series B Senior Notes at par value. 

During
      the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company repatriated foreign earnings
      in the amount of $6.4 million from two of the Company s European subsidiaries to
      take advantage of the special one-time tax rate of 5.25% as provided for under
      the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 in part by incurring additional
      indebtedness in two of the Company s European subsidiaries. 

There
      were $0.8 million and $1.0 million of outstanding borrowings under the Company s
      domestic credit facility with Wachovia Bank as of September 30, 2006 and
      September 30, 2005, respectively. The amount of available borrowings under
      the
      Company s domestic credit facility with Wachovia Bank was $20.8 million and
      $19.7 million based on the credit facility limits, current levels of accounts
      receivables, inventory, outstanding letters of credit and borrowings as of
      September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively.  

On
      October 27, 2006, the Company entered into a five-year Credit Agreement (the
       Credit Agreement ) with KeyBank National Association and Wells Fargo Bank
      National Association (collectively referred to herein as  KeyBank ),
      establishing a $45.0 million domestic credit facility (the  Credit Facility )
      and terminated its existing $25.0 million senior credit facility with Wachovia
      Bank, National Association ( Wachovia Bank ). The borrowing capacity available
      to the Company under the KeyBank Credit Facility consists of a five-year $15.0
      million term loan and a five-year $30.0 million revolving credit facility.
      The
      KeyBank Credit Facility was utilized to replace commitments and outstanding
      borrowings under the Company s $25.0 million credit facility with Wachovia Bank.
      Proceeds of the KeyBank Credit Facility are being or may be used for working
      capital and for general corporate purposes, and have been used to fund
      repurchases of the Company s Preferred Stock. The $45.0 million KeyBank Credit
      Facility contains a variable interest rate equal to either (at the Company s
      option depending on borrowing levels) zero percent (0%) or one quarter percent
      ( %) per annum in excess of the prime rate or one and one quarter percent (1 %),
      one and one half percent (1 %) or two percent (2%) per annum in excess of the
      adjusted Eurodollar rate, and is based upon the Company s leverage ratio, as
      defined in the Credit Agreement. The borrowing capacity varies based upon the
      levels of domestic cash, receivables and inventory. Under the new Credit
      Facility from KeyBank, the amount of available borrowings based on the credit
      facility limits, outstanding letters of credit and borrowings as of November
      30,
      2006 was approximately $25.6 million, including the $15.0 million term loan
      the
      Company has not drawn down as of November 30, 2006. 

The
      KeyBank Credit Agreement establishing the new Credit Facility contains financial
      covenants including minimum tangible net worth, leverage ratio, fixed charge
      coverage ratio, and a required level of profitability. In addition, the Credit
      Agreement contains a number of limitations on the ability of the Company and
      its
      restricted U.S. subsidiaries to (i) incur additional indebtedness, (ii) pay
      dividends or redeem any Common Stock, (iii) incur liens or other encumbrances
      on
      their assets, (iv) enter into transactions with affiliates, (v) merge with
      or
      into any other entity or (vi) sell any of their assets. 

21 

Table
          of Contents  

In
      addition, any  change of control  of the Company or its restricted U.S.
      subsidiaries will constitute a default under the Credit Agreement.  Change of
      Control,  as defined in the Credit Agreement, is summarized as follows: (i) the
      acquisition of, or, if earlier, the shareholder or director approval of the
      acquisition of, ownership or voting control, directly or indirectly,
      beneficially or of record, by any person, entity, or group (within the meaning
      of Rule 13d-3 of the SEC under the 1934 Act, as then in effect), of shares
      representing more than 50% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented
      by
      the issued and outstanding Common Stock of the Company; (ii) the occupation
      of a
      majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of
      the
      Company by individuals who were neither (A) nominated by the Company s board of
      directors nor (B) appointed by directors so nominated; (iii) the occurrence
      of a
      change in control, or other similar provision, under or with respect to any
       Material Indebtedness Agreement  (as defined in the Credit Agreement); or (iv)
      the failure of the Company to own directly or indirectly, all of the outstanding
      equity interests of the Company s Bayshore Industrial L.P. and ICO Polymers
      North America, Inc. subsidiaries. 

The
      Company has various foreign credit facilities in eight foreign countries. The
      available credit under these facilities varies based on the levels of accounts
      receivable within the foreign subsidiary, or is a fixed amount. The foreign
      credit facilities are collateralized by assets owned by the foreign subsidiaries
      and also carry various financial covenants. There were $17.2 million and $9.0
      million of outstanding borrowings under these foreign credit facilities as
      of
      September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively. The aggregate amount
      of
      available borrowings under the foreign credit facilities was $20.3 million
      (of
      which $1.0 million relates to the Company s Australian subsidiary, which
      obtained a waiver from National Australia Bank Limited regarding a violation
      of
      a financial covenant contained in the governing loan agreement) and $14.8
      million based on the credit facility limits, current levels of accounts
      receivables, outstanding letters of credit and borrowings as of September 30,
      2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively. 

The
      weighted average interest rate charged on borrowings under the Company s various
      credit facilities at September 30, 2006 and 2005 was 6.0% and 6.7%,
      respectively. 

Future
      Cash Requirements  

On
      October 10, 2006, the Company s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of
      up to 1,160,000 out of 1,290,000 outstanding Depositary Shares each representing
      1/4 share of the Company s $6.75 Convertible Exchangeable Preferred Stock.
      Through December 11, 2006, the Company repurchased 1,094,153 Depositary Shares
      (representing 273,538 shares of Preferred Stock) for total consideration of
      $28.4 million. The repurchase was funded using cash on hand plus borrowings
      under the Company s domestic Credit Agreement. 

Capital
      expenditures for fiscal year 2007 are currently estimated to be approximately
      $12.0 million. 

The
      following summarizes our contractual obligations and commercial commitments
      as
      of September 30, 2006. The long-term debt and capital leases listed below
      includes both the scheduled principal repayments and interest that will accrue
      on the outstanding principal balance. Interest on variable rate indebtedness
      was
      computed using the interest rate in effect for each loan at September 30,
      2006. 

The
      Company anticipates that the existing cash balance as of September 30, 2006
      of
      $17.4 million, additional borrowing capacity of approximately $41.1 million
      under various foreign and domestic credit arrangements, new borrowings under
      new
      credit facilities and cash flow from operations will provide adequate liquidity
      for fiscal year 2007 to pay for all current obligations, including capital
      expenditures, debt service, lease obligations, repurchases of Preferred Stock
      and working capital requirements.   There
      can
      be no assurance, however, that the Company will be successful in obtaining
      sources of capital that will be sufficient to support the Company s requirements
      in the long-term. 

22 

Table
          of Contents  

Off-Balance
      Sheet Arrangements.        The
      Company does not have any financial instruments classified as off-balance sheet
      (other than operating leases) as of September 30, 2006 and September 30,
      2005. 

Results
      of Operations  

The
      following discussion regarding the Company s financial performance during the
      past three fiscal years should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
      financial statements and the notes to the consolidated financial
      statements. 

Executive
      Summary  

Fiscal
      year 2006 revenues, operating income and volumes grew substantially compared
      to
      the prior year. Customer demand for new and existing products and services
      increased, primarily in the Company s U.S. business segments. Gross margins
      (calculated as the difference between revenues and cost of sales and services
      excluding depreciation, divided by revenues) and gross profit (defined as total
      revenues minus cost of sales and services excluding depreciation - see  Item 6.
      Selected Financial Data  for a discussion of gross profit) improved due in large
      part to the benefits of operating leverage (i.e., due to the fixed nature of
      many of the Company s expenses, revenues grew at a higher rate than expenses,
      yielding higher profitability) on the increased volume. Selling, general and
      administrative expenses declined 7% during fiscal 2006 which also contributed
      to
      the improved operating income. 

The
      Company s U.S. segments (Bayshore Industrial and ICO Polymers North America)
      performed very well during fiscal year 2006 with a combined operating income
      increase of $10.2 million, or just over 100%. The Company plans to continue
      to
      expand capacity in its U.S. facilities at a measured pace. During September
      2006, the expansion at Bayshore Industrial was completed, which increased
      capacity at Bayshore by approximately 10%. During fiscal year 2007, the Company
      plans to open an operating facility in Dubai, UAE that will provide size
      reduction and compounding services primarily to the rotational molding industry.
      Also during fiscal year 2007, the Company will expand its operations in Malaysia
      to introduce new product lines. 

Year
      Ended September 30, 2006 Compared to the Year Ended September 30,
      2005  

Revenues.          Total
      revenues increased $27.7 million or 9% to $324.3 million during fiscal year
      2006
      compared to fiscal year 2005. The increase in revenues is a result of the
      changes in volumes sold by the Company ( volume ), changes in selling prices and
      mix of finished products sold or services performed ( price/product mix ) and,
      finally, the impact from changes in foreign currencies relative to the U.S.
      Dollar ( translation effect ). 

23 

Table
          of Contents  

The
      components of the $27.7 million and 9% increase in revenues are: 

The
      Company s revenues are impacted by product sales mix as well as the change in
      the Company s raw material prices ( resin prices ). As the price of resin
      increases or decreases, market prices for the Company s products will generally
      also increase or decrease. Typically, this will lead to higher or lower average
      selling prices. During fiscal year 2006, resin prices were 15% - 22% higher
      (depending upon the region and type of raw material) than fiscal 2005. A change
      in the Company s overall product mix caused by the increase in sales at Bayshore
      Industrial offset a portion of the impact on revenue from higher average prices.
      These two factors combined led to a net increase of $14.3 million on revenues
      as
      a result of changes in price/product mix for fiscal 2006. Although the Company
      participates in numerous markets and purchases numerous grades of resin, the
      graph below illustrates the trend in resin prices typically purchased by the
      Company. 

Total
      volumes sold increased 27,000 metric tons, or 9%, during fiscal year 2006 to
      321,000 metric tons. This increase in volumes sold led to an increase in
      revenues of $17.2 million. The volume increase was most notable at the Company s
      Bayshore Industrial location due to an increase in customer demand from existing
      customers plus the addition of new customers during the year as a result of
      a
      more specialized product mix. The translation effect of changes in foreign
      currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar caused a reduction in revenues of $3.8
      million for fiscal year 2006 compared to fiscal year 2005. This revenue change
      was primarily due to a stronger U.S. Dollar compared to the
      Euro. 

24 

Table
          of Contents  

Revenues
      by segment for the year ended September 30, 2006 compared to the year ended
      September 30, 2005  

2006
      Revenues by
      Segment                                                           
2005 Revenues by Segment  

ICO
      Europe s revenues increased $2.4 million or 2% primarily due to higher average
      selling prices, compared to average selling prices of the prior year prompted
      by
      higher resin costs, which caused a revenue increase of $11.4 million. Lower
      volumes sold of 7% as a result of lower customer demand (primarily lower tolling
      volumes) reduced revenues by $5.1 million. The translation effect of a stronger
      U.S. Dollar compared to the relevant European currencies caused a revenue
      decline of $3.9 million. 

Bayshore
      Industrial s revenues increased $19.9 million or 27% primarily caused by an
      increase in volumes sold of 32% due to an increase in customer demand from
      existing customers plus the addition of new customers during the year as a
      result of a more specialized product mix. 

ICO
      Courtenay-Australasia s revenues increased $0.1 million as a result of higher
      average selling prices ($1.3 million impact to revenues) partially offset by
      the
      translation effect of a stronger U.S. Dollar compared to the relevant
      Australasian currencies of $1.2 million. 

ICO
      Polymers North America revenues increased $4.2 million or 10% as a result of
      higher tolling revenues of $3.4 million due in part to an increase in specialty
      grinding. As a result of higher average selling prices, partially offset by
      lower volumes, product sales revenues increased $0.8 million. 

ICO
      Brazil s revenues increased $1.0 million or 12%, primarily due to the
      translation effect of a stronger Brazil Real compared to the U.S. Dollar, which
      increased Brazil s revenues by $1.3 million. 

Gross
      Margins.   
      Consolidated gross margins (calculated as the difference between revenues and
      cost of sales and services, excluding depreciation, divided by revenues)
      improved to 19.5% for fiscal year 2006 compared to 18.0% for fiscal year 2005.
      This improvement was primarily due to the benefits of operating leverage driven
      by the growth in total volumes sold. The Company takes advantage of operating
      leverage when volumes increase because cost of goods sold expenses such as
      labor
      and other plant expenses increase (or decrease) in a lower proportion relative
      to the increase in volumes. Additionally, despite higher raw material prices,
      the  

25 

Table
          of Contents  

Company
      improved its feedstock margins (the difference between product sales revenues
      and related cost of raw materials sold) as a result of the ability to pass
      along
      the higher raw material prices in the form of higher selling
      prices. 

Selling,
      General and Administrative   .
      Selling, general and administrative expenses (including stock option
      compensation expense) ( SG A ) declined $2.7 million or 7% during fiscal
      year 2006 compared to fiscal year 2005. 

The
      decline in SG A was due to lower legal fees of $0.9 million, lower third
      party Sarbanes-Oxley implementation costs of $0.9 million, lower severance
      expenses of $0.6 million, and lower employee medical claims expense of $0.4
      million. Additionally, a stronger U.S. Dollar compared to relevant foreign
      currencies reduced SG A by $0.3 million. As a percentage of revenues,
      SG A declined to 10.6% as a result of the growth in revenues and the
      reduction in SG A. 

Impairment,
      restructuring and other costs   .
      Impairment, restructuring and other costs decreased $0.4 million or 76% in
      fiscal 2006. This decline was a result of lower expenses as compared to fiscal
      2005 from damage caused by Hurricane Rita of $55,000, lower European technical
      center relocation costs of $0.2 million and costs recognized in fiscal year
      2005
      of $0.1 million related to the closure of the Company s Swedish plant in fiscal
      year 2004. 

Operating
      income.    Consolidated
      operating income was $21.3 million for fiscal year 2006, an increase of $13.1
      million or 160% from fiscal year 2005. This increase was caused primarily by
      the
      increase in gross profit (caused primarily by the volume increase) and a
      reduction in SG A. 

Operating
      income (loss) by segment and discussion of significant segment changes
      follows. 

Operating
      income (loss) by segment for the year ended September 30, 2006 compared to
      the
      year ended September 30, 2005  

ICO
      Europe s operating income increased $1.8 million or 43% primarily due to
      improved feedstock margins and lower operating costs. These benefits were
      partially offset by the reduction in volumes sold. The improved feedstock
      margins were a result of improved management of product selling prices and
      resin
      procurement. Lower depreciation expense of $0.5 million due to low levels of
      capital expenditures in recent years also contributed to the operating income
      improvement 

Bayshore
      Industrial s operating income improved $6.0 million or 67% due to a 32% growth
      in total sales volumes. Although operating costs such as electricity and payroll
      increased due to the volume increase, this operation benefited from operating
      leverage of the business. 

26 

Table
          of Contents  

ICO
      Courtenay-Australasia s operating income decreased $0.5 million or 17% due to a
      reduction in gross margin caused by pricing pressures in New Zealand and
      Australia resulting from a challenging market environment which had the effect
      of reducing feedstock margins. The Australian market environment began to
      improve in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006. 

ICO
      Polymers North America s operating income improved $4.3 million to $5.0 million
      caused by an increase in tolling revenues of $3.4 million or 19%. A reduction
      in
      medical claims expense of $1.7 million also contributed to the improved
      operating income. 

ICO
      Brazil s operating loss decreased $0.5 million to a loss of $0.5 million. This
      improvement was a result of improved margins on product sales due to improved
      management of product selling prices and raw material procurement. 

General
      corporate expenses declined $1.3 million or 18% due primarily to lower severance
      costs of $0.5 million, lower third party Sarbanes-Oxley implementation costs
      of
      $0.4 million (83%) and lower third-party professional accounting and legal
      expenses of $0.2 million (24%). 

Interest
      expense, net.    Interest
      expense, net of interest income, declined $0.7 million in fiscal year 2006
      compared to the prior year. This decline was primarily caused by lower overall
      average net borrowings and the refinancings that occurred during fiscal years
      2006 and 2005 which had the effect of lowering borrowing rates, including the
      repayment of the Company s 10 3/8% Senior Notes. 

Income
      Taxes   .
      The
      Company s effective income tax rate for continuing operations was an expense of
      30% during fiscal 2006, compared to an expense of 4% during fiscal 2005. The
      change was primarily due to the increase in pretax income from domestic
      operations. In addition, in fiscal year 2005 the Company utilized previously
      reserved net operating losses in its Italian and Swedish subsidiaries which
      reduced the fiscal 2005 tax rate. 

Income
      from continuing operations     .
          Income
      from continuing operations improved from $5.0 million in fiscal 2005 to $13.5
      million in fiscal 2006 due to the factors discussed above. 

Loss
      From Discontinued Operations   .
        On
      November 21, 2006, the Company entered into an agreement settling all of the
      pending indemnity claims asserted by National Oilwell Varco, Inc., formerly
      Varco International, Inc. ( NOV ) relating to NOV s purchase of substantially
      all of the Company s Oilfield Services business on September 6, 2002. In
      exchange for a complete release of claims and indemnity agreement, the Company
      agreed to a $7.5 million payment consisting of: a cash payment of $1.1 million;
      release to NOV of the $5.4 million held in escrow; and a $1.0 million note
      payable in one year. The funds in escrow were set aside on September 6, 2002,
      and consisted of $5.0 million of the sale proceeds plus interest. The escrowed
      funds were deemed to be a doubtful collection and a reserve recorded against
      the
      $5.0 million during fiscal year 2004 through discontinued operations. As a
      result of the settlement, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge through
      discontinued operations of $2.1 million ($1.4 million after taxes) during its
      fiscal fourth quarter ended September 30, 2006.     The
      loss
      from discontinued operations during fiscal year 2005 related to legal fees
      and
      other expenses incurred by the Company associated with discontinued
      operations. 

Net
      Income.    Net
      Income improved from $4.5 million in fiscal 2005 to $12.0 million in fiscal
      2006
      due to the factors discussed above. 

Foreign
      Currency Translation   .
        The
      fluctuations of the U.S Dollar against the Euro, British Pound, New Zealand
      Dollar, Brazilian Real, Malaysian Ringgit and the Australian Dollar have
      impacted the translation of revenues and expenses of the Company s international
      operations. The table below summarizes the impact of changing exchange rates
      for
      the above currencies between fiscal 2006 and 2005. 

Revenues 

$(3.8)
                million 

Operating
                income 

(0.3)
                million 

Income
                from continuing operations before income taxes 

(0.2)
                million 

Net
                income 

(0.2)
                million 

27 

Table
          of Contents  

Year
      Ended September 30, 2005 Compared to the Year Ended September 30,
      2004  

Revenues.          Total
      revenues increased $39.1 million or 15% to $296.6 million during fiscal year
      2005. 

The
      components of the $39.1 million and 15% increase in revenues are: 

(1)
                   Price/product
                mix refers to the impact on revenues due to changes in selling prices
                and
                the impact on revenues due to a change in the mix of finished products
                sold or services performed. 

(2)
                   Translation
                effect refers to the impact on revenues from the changes in foreign
                currencies relative to the U.S.
                Dollar. 

The
      Company s revenues are impacted by the change in the Company s raw material
      prices ( resin  prices). As the price of resin increases, market prices for the
      Company s products will generally also increase. This will typically lead to
      higher average selling prices. During fiscal year 2005, resin prices rose
      dramatically and increased the Company s revenues by approximately $38.3
      million. 

Lower
      volumes sold of 12,000 metric tons, or 4%, resulted in lower revenues of $7.6
      million during fiscal year 2005. Lower volumes were primarily due to a decline
      in customer demand. The translation effect of stronger foreign currencies
      relative to the U.S. Dollar increased revenues by $8.4 million during fiscal
      year 2005. 

28 

Table
          of Contents  

Revenues
      by segment for the year ended September 30, 2005 compared to the year ended
      September 30, 2004  

2005
      Revenues by
      Segment                                                                         
2004 Revenues by Segment  

ICO
      Europe s revenues increased $14.4 million or 13% caused by the translation
      effect of stronger European currencies compared to the U.S. Dollar of $4.9
      million and an increase of $17.2 million due to an increase in average selling
      prices prompted by higher resin prices. A decline in volumes sold of 9% caused
      by a reduction in customer demand resulted in a decrease in revenues of $7.7
      million. 

Bayshore
      Industrial s revenues increased $12.8 million or 21% as a result of higher
      average selling prices due to higher raw material prices ($8.7 million impact)
      as well as an increase in volumes sold of 7% ($4.1 million impact). The volume
      increase was due to gaining new customers and an increase in customer demand.

ICO
      Courtenay - Australasia s revenues increased $7.0 million or 17% primarily as a
      result of higher average selling prices prompted by higher resin costs ($6.4
      million impact) as well as the translation effect of stronger Australian and
      New
      Zealand dollar currencies compared to the U.S. Dollar of $2.4 million, offset
      by
      reduced volumes sold of 4% ($1.7 million impact) due to lower customer demand
      in
      New Zealand. 

ICO
      Polymers North America revenues increased $3.8 million or 10% due to higher
      average selling prices ($4.4 million) and product sales volumes ($0.5 million
      impact), offset by lower tolling revenues of $1.1 million primarily caused
      by a
      decline in volumes. The decline in volumes was primarily due to a reduction
      in
      customer demand. 

ICO
      Brazil s revenues increased $1.0 million or 14% during fiscal 2005 due to the
      stronger Brazilian Real compared to the U.S. Dollar ($1.1 million impact) and
      higher selling prices ($0.8 million impact) offset by the effect of lower
      customer demand which reduced revenues by $0.9 million. 

Gross
      Margins.   
      Consolidated gross margins (calculated as the difference between revenues and
      cost of sales and services, divided by revenues) were 18.0% in fiscal year
      2005
      compared to 18.6% during fiscal year 2004. The reduction in gross margin was
      caused by lower service and product sales volumes and an increase in product
      sales prices and hence higher sales revenues which increased primarily due
      to
      rising resin prices. Higher resin prices have historically resulted in an
      increase in the market price of the  

29 

Table
          of Contents  

Company s
      products and, thus, higher selling prices, which may cause a reduction in gross
      margin. Partially offsetting this decline was an improvement in the Company s
      feedstock margin per ton (feedstock margin is equal to product sales revenues
      less raw material costs). Although resin prices increased, the Company was
      able
      to maintain feedstock margin by passing along the higher resin costs in the
      form
      of higher selling prices. Additionally, the Company successfully managed the
      timing of raw material purchases which also benefited gross
      margins. 

Selling,
      General and Administrative   .
      Selling, general and administrative expenses (including stock option
      compensation expense of $0.7 million in fiscal 2005 and $0.7 million in fiscal
      2004) ( SG A ) increased $3.2 million or 10% during 2005. SG A increased
      in fiscal year 2005 as a result of higher compensation and benefits cost
      (including employee medical costs) of $0.8 million, stronger foreign currencies
      compared to the U.S. Dollar (an impact of approximately $1.0 million) and an
      increase in severance costs of $0.6 million. In addition, the Company incurred
      $1.0 million of Sarbanes-Oxley implementation costs during fiscal year 2005
      compared to $55,000 in fiscal year 2004. Professional accounting fees also
      increased $1.1 million primarily as a result of the higher audit costs for
      fiscal 2005 due to Sarbanes-Oxley. These increases were partially offset by
      lower profit sharing expenses of $0.5 million. As a percentage of revenues,
      SG A (including stock option compensation expense) declined to 12.5% of
      revenue during fiscal year 2005 compared to 13.1% for fiscal year
      2004. 

Included
      in SG A are the following expenses: 

Impairment,
      restructuring and other costs   .
      Impairment, restructuring and other costs decreased $0.4 million or 43% in
      fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 due to events discussed below. 

The
      Company s China, Texas plant located near Beaumont suffered minor damage from
      Hurricane Rita in September 2005. As a result of the hurricane, the Company
      incurred $110,000 of costs in September 2005 associated with employee hardship
      expenses and temporary plant expenses to get the facility operational again.
      During fiscal 2005, the Company relocated its European technical center to
      a new
      location in the U.K. and recognized $0.2 million of costs. The Company also
      incurred $135,000 of additional costs associated with the closure of its Swedish
      manufacturing operation. 

In
      connection with the closure of the Company s Swedish manufacturing operation
      during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company recognized $0.6 million
      of
      costs for severance, contract termination expenses and other related costs
      in
      fiscal year 2004.   In
      addition, the Company incurred net severance costs of $160,000 during fiscal
      2004 related to the termination of certain employees in North America and
      Europe. In fiscal year 2004, the Company also incurred $55,000 of other costs
      associated with the closure of a rotational mold fabrication business in the
      UK. 

Operating
      income.    Consolidated
      operating income improved $3.0 million or 57% during fiscal year 2005. The
      increase was primarily due to the increase in gross profit offset by higher
      SG A. Gross profit increased despite lower gross margins due to improved
      feedstock margins exceeding the gross profit impact from lower sales and service
      volumes. 

Operating
      income (loss) by segment and discussion of significant segment changes
      follows. 

30 

Table
          of Contents  

Operating
      income (loss) by segment for the year ended September 30, 2005 compared to
      the
      year ended September 30, 2004  

ICO
      Europe s operating income improved $1.8 million or 75%. This improvement was
      primarily a result of an increase in feedstock margin per metric ton due to
      improved product sales pricing management (approximately $3.3 million positive
      impact) and a reduction in manufacturing costs of $1.7 million due primarily
      to
      the closure and consolidation of the Company s Swedish plant. These improvements
      were partially offset by the impact of lower customer demand, which reduced
      volumes sold by 9%, and third-party Sarbanes-Oxley implementation costs of
      $0.3
      million. 

Bayshore
      Industrial s operating income improved $3.4 million or 61% due to an increase in
      feedstock margin per metric ton sold and growth in volumes. Bayshore was able
      to
      gain operating leverage as a result of the increase in volumes. 

ICO
      Courtenay - Australasia s operating income declined $1.1 million or 27%
      primarily as a result of a reduction in volumes sold and an increase in SG A
      of $1.6 million. The increase in SG A was caused by an increase in payroll
      costs of $0.5 million, a stronger Australian Dollar and New Zealand Dollar
      compared to the U.S. Dollar ($0.3 million impact), higher bad debt expense
      of
      $0.2 million, an increase in legal fees of $0.3 million and third party
      Sarbanes-Oxley implementation costs of $0.1 million. 

ICO
      Polymers North America s operating income declined $0.7 million or 47% to $0.8
      million primarily caused by higher employee medical expenses of $1.2 million
      and
      lower tolling revenues caused mostly by reduced customer demand. These items
      were partially offset by an improvement in feedstock margin per metric ton
      due
      to rising resin prices and better inventory management, which increased
      operating income by $0.9 million, lower manufacturing costs (excluding medical
      expenses) of $0.6 million and lower SG A (excluding medical expenses) of
      $0.3 million.  

ICO
      Brazil s operating income (loss) declined $1.1 million to a loss of $1.0
      million. The lower profitability was primarily due to a reduction in feedstock
      margins of $0.3 million and higher bad debt expense of $0.3 million related
      primarily to certain slow paying customers. The Brazilian market has been under
      pressure due to higher resin prices and a weak U.S. Dollar which reduced
      customer demand. In addition, an extended drought in Southern Brazil has reduced
      customer demand within the agriculture segment of the market. 

General
      corporate expenses declined $0.6 million or 8% due to lower expenses related
      to
      lower payroll costs of $0.4 million, a reduction in profit sharing expense
      of
      $0.5 million, a reduction in external legal fees of $0.2 million and lower
      employee placement costs of $0.2 million. These reductions were partially offset
      by higher severance costs of $0.5 million and higher external accounting fees
      of
      $0.4 million due primarily to the audit for Sarbanes-Oxley. 

31 

Table
          of Contents  

Net
      Interest Expense   .
      Net
      interest expense increased $0.2 million or 6% compared to fiscal 2004 due to
      an
      increase in average debt during the year and higher interest rates. 

Income
      Taxes   .
      The
      Company s effective income tax rate for continuing operations was an expense of
      4% during fiscal 2005, compared to a benefit of 54% during fiscal 2004. The
      change was partially due to the relation between pretax income or loss to
      nondeductible items and other permanent differences and the mix of pretax income
      or loss generated by the Company s operations in various taxing jurisdictions.
      In addition, during both fiscal years, the Company generated taxable income
      in
      certain European subsidiaries that enabled those subsidiaries to utilize tax
      assets that were previously reserved of $1.0 million and $2.1 million in fiscal
      years 2005 and 2004, respectively. 

Income
      from continuing operations     .
          Income
      from continuing operations improved from $3.9 million in fiscal 2004 to $5.0
      million in fiscal 2005 due to the factors discussed above. 

Loss
      From Discontinued Operations, net of income taxes.   
      Loss
      from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, decreased from a loss of
      $3.6
      million to a loss of $0.5 million. This improvement is primarily caused by
      a
      $5.0 million pre tax reserve placed against the receivable of escrowed sales
      proceeds during fiscal 2004 relating to the sale of the Company s Oilfield
      Services business to NOV in 2002. The $0.5 million of loss during fiscal year
      2005 relates primarily to legal and other expenses incurred related to
      discontinued operations. 

Net
      Income.    Net
      Income improved $4.2 million from $0.3 million in fiscal 2004 to $4.5 million
      in
      fiscal 2005 due to the factors discussed above. 

Foreign
      Currency Translation   .
        The
      fluctuations of the U.S Dollar against the Euro, Swedish Krona, British Pound,
      New Zealand Dollar, Brazilian Real, Malaysian Ringgit and the Australian Dollar
      have impacted the translation of revenues and expenses of the Company s
      international operations. The table below summarizes the impact of changing
      exchange rates for the above currencies between fiscal 2005 and
      2004. 

Revenues 

$8.4
                million 

Operating
                income 

0.2
                million 

Income
                from continuing operations before income taxes 

0.1
                million 

Net
                income 

0.1
                million 

Off-Balance
      Sheet Arrangements  

The
      Company does not have any financial instruments classified as off-balance sheet
      (other than operating leases) as of September 30, 2006 and 2005. 

Forward-Looking
      Statements  

The
      statements contained in all parts of this document, including, but not limited
      to, timing of new services or facilities, ability to compete, future capital
      expenditures, effects of compliance with laws, fluctuation of the U.S. Dollar
      against foreign currencies, matters relating to operating facilities, effect
      and
      cost of litigation and remediation, future liquidity, future acquisitions,
      future market conditions, reductions in expenses, derivative transactions,
      net
      operating losses, tax credits, tax refunds, demand for the Company s products
      and services, future growth plans, financial results and any other statements
      which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning
      of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934 that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. When
      words such as  anticipate,   believe,   estimate,   intend,   expect,   plan 
and similar expressions are used, they are intended to identify the statements
      as forward-looking. Actual results, performance or achievements can differ
      materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements due to
      a
      number of factors, including results of operations, the Company s financial
      condition, results of litigation, capital expenditures and other spending
      requirements, demand for the Company s products and services and those described
      below and elsewhere in this document and those described in the Company s other
      filings with the SEC. 

You
      should carefully consider the factors in "Item 1A. Risk Factors  and other
      information contained in this report. The risks and uncertainties
      described are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties
      not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are
      similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in
      general,  

32 

Table
          of Contents  

may
      also
      impair our business operations. If any of the risk factors actually
      occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
      could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price
      of
      our Common Stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your
      investment. 

Recently
      Issued Accounting Pronouncements  

In
      May
      2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Statement of
      Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 154,    Accounting
      Changes and Error Corrections - a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB
      Statement No. 3   .
      SFAS
      No. 154 changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a
      change in accounting principle. Previously, most voluntary changes in accounting
      principles required recognition via a cumulative effect adjustment within net
      income of the period of the change. SFAS No. 154 requires retrospective
      application to prior periods  financial statements, unless it is impracticable
      to determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of
      a
      change in accounting principle. SFAS 154 also requires that retrospective
      application of a change in accounting principle be limited to the direct effects
      of the change. Indirect effects of a change in accounting principle should
      be
      recognized in the period of the accounting change. SFAS 154 further requires
      a
      change in depreciation, amortization or depletion method for long-lived,
      non-financial assets to be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate
      effected by a change in accounting principle. SFAS No.154 is effective for
      accounting changes made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005;
      however, the Statement does not change the transition provisions of any existing
      accounting pronouncements. The Company will adopt this statement effective
      October 1, 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 154 is not expected to have a material
      effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, results of operations
      or cash flows. 

In
      July
      2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB Interpretation No.
      48,    Accounting
      for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - An Interpretation of FASB Statement No.
      109   
      ( FIN
      48 ), which clarifies the accounting and disclosure for uncertain tax positions,
      as defined. FIN 48 seeks to reduce the diversity in practice associated with
      certain aspects of the recognition and measurement related to accounting for
      income taxes. FIN 48 requires the use of a two-step approach for recognizing
      and
      measuring tax benefits taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and
      disclosures regarding uncertainties in income tax positions. The Company is
      required to adopt FIN 48 effective October 1, 2007. The cumulative effect of
      initially adopting FIN 48 will be recorded as an adjustment to opening retained
      earnings in the year of adoption and will be presented separately. Only tax
      positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold at the
      effective date may be recognized on adoption of FIN 48. The Company is currently
      evaluating the impact this new standard will have on its future results of
      operations and financial position. 

In
      September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,   
      Employer s Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
      Plans an amendment of SFAS Nos. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)    ( SFAS
      No. 158 ). SFAS No. 158 contains a number of amendments to current accounting
      for defined benefit plans; however, the primary change is the requirement to
      recognize in the balance sheet the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined
      benefit plan measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets
      and the projected benefit obligation. Stockholders  equity will also be
      increased or decreased (through  other comprehensive income ) for the overfunded
      or underfunded status. SFAS No. 158 does not change the determination of pension
      plan liabilities or assets, or the income statement recognition of periodic
      pension expense. The recognition and disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 158
      are
      effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006. The Company will
      adopt these provisions of the standard as of September 30, 2007. The Company
      has
      a defined benefit plan in its Holland and France subsidiaries. At September
      30,
      2006, the projected benefit obligations of the Company s plans exceeded plan
      assets by approximately $1.7 million. Had the Company adopted the provisions
      of
      SFAS No. 158 as of September 30, 2006, Other Current Liabilities would have
      been
      increased by approximately $0.8 million, Deferred Income Taxes would have been
      reduced by approximately $0.2 million and Stockholders  Equity would have been
      reduced by approximately $0.6 million. 

In
      September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,   
      Fair
      Value Measurements   
      ( SFAS
      No. 157 ). SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for
      measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands
      disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 does not require any
      new
      fair value measurements, rather, its application will be made pursuant to other
      accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. SFAS
      No. 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning
      after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those years. This standard
      will be effective for the Company starting with our interim period ending
      December 31, 2008. The provisions of SFAS No. 157 are to be applied
      prospectively upon adoption, except for limited specified exceptions. The
      Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157 to have a material impact
      on our financial position or results of operations. 

33 

Table
          of Contents  

In
      September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) staff issued
      Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,   
      Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying
      Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements   
      ( SAB
      No. 108 ). SAB No. 108 was issued in order to eliminate the diversity of
      practice surrounding how public companies quantify financial statement
      misstatements. The SEC staff, in SAB No. 108, established an approach that
      requires quantification of financial statement misstatements based on the
      effects of the misstatements on each of a company s financial statements and the
      related financial statement disclosures. SAB No. 108 permits existing public
      companies to initially apply its provisions either by (i) restating prior
      financial statements as if SAB No. 108 had always been used or (ii) recording
      the cumulative effect of initially applying SAB No. 108. The Company will
      initially apply the provisions of SAB No. 108 in connection with the preparation
      of its annual financial statements for the year ending September 30, 2007.
      The
      Company does not expect the initial application of SAB No. 108 to result in
      a
      restatement of prior financial statements or the recording by the Company of
      a
      cumulative adjustment. 

34 

Table
          of Contents  

Item
      7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
      Risk  

The
      Company s primary market risk exposures include debt obligations carry variable
      interest rates, foreign currency exchange risk and resin price risk. As of
      September 30, 2006, the Company had $45.8 million of net investment in foreign
      wholly-owned subsidiaries. The Company does not hedge the foreign exchange
      rate
      risk inherent with this non-U.S. Dollar denominated investment. The Company
      does
      enter into forward currency exchange contracts related to future purchase
      obligations denominated in a nonfunctional currency. These forward currency
      exchange contracts qualify as cash flow hedging instruments and are highly
      effective. The Company recognizes the amount of hedge ineffectiveness in the
      Consolidated Statement of Operations. The hedge ineffectiveness was not a
      significant amount for the twelve months ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and
      2004, respectively. The Company s principle foreign currency exposures relate to
      the Euro, British Pound, Australian Dollar, New Zealand Dollar, Malaysian
      Ringgit and Brazilian Real. The following table includes the total foreign
      exchange contracts outstanding on September 30, 2006 and September 30,
      2005: 

The
      Company s revenues and profitability are impacted by the change in resin prices.
      The Company uses various resins (primarily polyethylene) to make its products.
      As the price of resin increases or decreases, market prices for the Company s
      products will generally also increase or decrease. This will typically lead
      to
      higher or lower average selling prices and will impact the Company s operating
      income and operating margin. The impact on operating income is due to a lag
      in
      matching the change in raw material cost of goods sold and the change in product
      sales prices. As of September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, the Company
      had
      $21.7 million and $20.3 million of raw material inventory and $19.3 million
      and
      $13.8 million of finished goods inventory, respectively. The Company attempts
      to
      minimize its exposure to resin price changes by monitoring and carefully
      managing the quantity of its inventory on hand and product sales prices.

The
      Company s variable interest rates subject the Company to the risks of increased
      interest costs associated with any upward movements in market interest rates.
      As
      of September 30, 2006, the Company had $20.5 million of variable interest rate
      debt. The Company s variable interest rates are tied to various bank rates. At
      September 30, 2006, based on our current level of borrowings, a 1% increase
      in
      interest rates would increase interest expense annually by approximately $0.2
      million. 

Foreign
      Currency Intercompany Accounts and Notes Receivable   .
      From
      time-to-time, the Company s U.S. subsidiaries provide capital to foreign
      subsidiaries of the Company through U.S. dollar denominated interest bearing
      promissory notes. In addition, certain of the Company s foreign subsidiaries
      also provide access to capital to other foreign subsidiaries of the Company
      through foreign currency denominated interest bearing promissory notes. Such
      funds are generally used by the Company s foreign subsidiaries to purchase
      capital assets and/or for general working capital needs. In addition, the
      Company s U.S. subsidiaries sell products to the Company s foreign subsidiaries
      in U.S. dollars on trade credit terms.  The Company s foreign subsidiaries
      also sell products to other foreign subsidiaries of the Company denominated
      in
      foreign currencies that may not be the functional currency of the foreign
      subsidiaries. Because these intercompany debts are accounted for in the local
      functional currency of the foreign subsidiary, any appreciation or depreciation
      of the foreign currencies the transactions are denominated in will result in
      a
      gain or loss, respectively, to the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
 These intercompany loans are eliminated in the Company s Consolidated
      Balance Sheet. At September 30, 2006, the Company had the following significant
      outstanding intercompany amounts as described above: 

Country
                of subsidiary with  

                 intercompany
                receivable  

Country
                of subsidiary with  

                 intercompany
                payable  

Amount
                in US$ as of  

                 September
                30, 2006  

Currency
                denomination of receivable  

New
                Zealand 

Australia 

$1.6
                million 

New
                Zealand Dollar 

New
                Zealand  

Malaysia 

$1.2
                million 

New
                Zealand Dollar 

U.S. 

Italy 

$1.1
                million 

U.S.
                Dollar 

35 

Table
          of Contents  

Item
      8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary
      Data  

The
      response to this Item is submitted as a separate section of this report. See
      index to this information on Page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form
      10-K. 

Item
      9 .       Changes
      in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure  

None. 

Item
      9A.        Controls
      and Procedures  

Disclosure
      Controls and Procedures  

The
      Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures, as defined under
      Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
      amended, that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed
      in the Company s reports under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
      summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission s
      rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to
      the
      Company s management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
      Officer, as appropriate, to allow for timely decisions regarding required
      disclosure. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures,
      management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well
      designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the
      desired control objectives, and management is required to apply its judgment
      in
      evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.

The
      Company carried out an assessment, under the supervision and with the
      participation of the Company s management, including the Company s Chief
      Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to evaluate the effectiveness
      of
      the design and operation of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures, as
      of September 30, 2006. The Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
      Officer concluded, based on the material weakness described below, that the
      Company s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at a reasonable
      level of assurance as of September 30, 2006. 

In
      light
      of the material weakness described below, management performed additional
      analysis and other procedures to ensure that the Company's consolidated
      financial statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted
      accounting principles. Accordingly, management believes that the financial
      statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly present in all
      material respects the Company's financial condition, results of operations
      and
      cash flows for the periods presented. 

Management s
      Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

Management
      is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
      financial reporting, as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). The
      Company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
      and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
      with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

Because
      of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may
      not
      prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
      effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
      inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
      with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

Under
      the
      supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief
      Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the Company conducted an
      evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
      reporting based on the framework in     Internal
      Control - Integrated Framework    
issued
      by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
      ("COSO").  

A
      material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control
      deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material
      misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented
      or detected. As of September 30, 2006, the Company did not maintain effective
      controls over the accounting for cumulative preferred stock in the earnings
      per
      share calculation. Specifically, the Company did not maintain effective controls
      over the accounting for cumulative preferred stock in the calculation of the
      Company's basic and diluted earnings per share. This control deficiency resulted
      in the restatement of the consolidated financial statements for the periods
      ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 and for each of the quarters ended December
      31, 2005 and 2004, March 31, 2006 and 2005, June 30, 2006 and 2005 and September
      30, 2005, and resulted in an audit adjustment to the  

36 

Table
          of Contents  

consolidated
      financial statements for the period ended September 30, 2006. Additionally,
      this
      control deficiency could result in misstatements of the earnings per share
      amounts that would result in a material misstatement of the annual or interim
      consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected.
      Accordingly, management has concluded that this control deficiency constitutes
      a
      material weakness. 

As
      a
      result of the material weakness described above, management has concluded that
      the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of September 30,
      2006
      is not effective based on criteria established in    Internal
      Control - Integrated Framework   
      issued
      by the COSO. 

Management s
      assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
      reporting as of September 30, 2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report
      included herein.  

Remediation
      of the Material Weakness in Internal Control Over Financial
      Reporting  

Management
      has determined that, as of the date of this filing, the material weakness in
      the
      Company's internal control over financial reporting with respect to accounting
      for cumulative preferred stock in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings
      per share in accordance with SFAS No. 128 has been remediated. Management's
      remediation efforts resulted   in
      the
      inclusion of enhanced procedures in management's review of disclosures in the
      financial statements designed to ensure the appropriate accounting for the
      effects of cumulative preferred stock in the  
      Company's earnings per share calculation. 

Changes
      In Internal Control and Financial Reporting  

There
      were no changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting
      during the fourth quarter of 2006 that materially affected, or were reasonably
      likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial
      reporting.  

Item
      9B.  Other Information  

None. 

37 

Table
          of Contents  

P
      A R T I I I   

Item
      10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the
      Registrant  

The
      information required by this item is incorporated by reference to information
      under the caption  Proposal 1 - Election of Directors  and to the information
      under the caption  Section 16(a)  in the Company s definitive Proxy Statement
      (the  Proxy Statement ) for its 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The Proxy
      Statement or the information to be so incorporated will be filed with the
      Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ) not later than 120 days
      subsequent to September 30, 2006. 

The
      Company has adopted a Code of Business Ethics that applies to, among others,
      its
      Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer.
      The Company s Code of Business Ethics is available upon request by contacting
      the Company s General Counsel at (713) 351-4100 or on our website at
      www.icopolymers.com. If we make any substantive amendments to the Code of
      Business Ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from a
      provision of the Code of Business Ethics applicable to our Chief Executive
      Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer, we will make
      a
      public disclosure of the nature of such amendment or waiver. 

Item
      11.  Executive Compensation  

The
      information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the
      Proxy Statement for the Company s 2007 Annual Meeting of
      Shareholders. 

Item
      12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
      Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

The
      information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the
      Proxy Statement for the Company s 2007 Annual Meeting of
      Shareholders. 

Item
      13.  Certain Relationships and Related
      Transactions  

The
      information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the
      Proxy Statement for the Company s 2007 Annual Meeting of
      Shareholders. 

Item
      14.  Principal Accounting Fees and
      Services  

The
      information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the
      Proxy Statement for the Company s 2007 Annual Meeting of
      Shareholders. 

38 

Table
          of Contents  

P
      A R T I V   

Item
      15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement
      Schedules  

(a)(1)
                and (a)(2) 

The
                response to this portion of Item 15 is submitted as a separate section
                of
                this report on page F-1. 

(b) 

Exhibits
                required by Item 601 of S-K: 

The
      following instruments and documents are included as Exhibits to this Form 10-K.
      Exhibits incorporated by reference are so indicated by parenthetical
      information. 

39 

Table
          of Contents  

______________________ 

      *Filed
      herewith 

40 

Table
          of Contents  

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
      by
      the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

ICO,
                Inc. 

By: 

/s/
                A. John Knapp, Jr. 

A.
                John Knapp, Jr. 

President,
                Chief Executive Officer, and 

Director
                (Principal Executive Officer) 

Date: 

December
                13, 2006 

Pursuant
      to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
      been
      signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
      capacities and on the dates indicated. 

Name  

Title  

Date  

/s/
                  Gregory
                T. Barmore 

Chairman
                of the Board 

December
                13, 2006 

Gregory
                T. Barmore 

/s/
                  A.
                John Knapp, Jr. 

President,
                Chief Executive Officer, and 

December
                13, 2006 

A.
                John Knapp, Jr. 

Director
                (Principal Executive Officer) 

/s/
                  Jon
                C. Biro 

Chief
                Financial Officer, Treasurer, and Director 

December
                13, 2006 

Jon
                C. Biro 

(Principal
                Financial Officer) 

/s/
                Eric O. English 

Director 

December
                13, 2006 

Eric
                O. English 

/s/
                  David
                E.K. Frischkorn, Jr. 

Director 

December
                13, 2006 

David
                E.K. Frischkorn, Jr. 

/s/
                Daniel R. Gaubert 

Director 

December
                13, 2006 

Daniel
                R. Gaubert 

/s/
                John F. Gibson 

Director 

December
                13, 2006 

John
                F. Gibson 

/s/
                  Charles
                T. McCord, III 

Director 

December
                13, 2006 

Charles
                T. McCord, III 

/s/
                Warren W. Wilder 

Director 

December
                13, 2006 

Warren
                W. Wilder 

41 

Table
          of Contents  

ICO,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

FORM
      10-K  

INDEX
      OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The
      following financial statements of ICO, Inc. and subsidiaries are required to
      be
      included by Item 15: 

Financial
                Statements:  

Page  

Report
                of Independent Registered Public
                Accounting Firm     

F-2  

Consolidated
                Balance Sheet at September 30, 2006 and 2005     

F-4  

Consolidated
                Statement of Operations for the three years ended September 30,
                2006     

F-5  

Consolidated
                Statement of Cash Flows for the three years ended September 30,
                2006     

F-6  

Consolidated
                Statement of Stockholders  Equity
                and Accumulated Other Comprehensive  

Income
                (Loss) for the three years ended September 30, 2006     

F-7  

Notes
                to Consolidated Financial Statements     

F-8  

Financial
                Statement Schedules:  

Schedule
                I - Condensed Financial Information of ICO,
                Inc. (Parent Company Only)     

F-33  

Schedule
                II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts     

F-37  

All
      other
      schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations
      of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related
      instructions or are inapplicable and therefore have been omitted or the
      information is presented in the consolidated financial statements or related
      notes. 

F-1 

Table
          of Contents  

R EPORT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
      ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To
      the
      Board of Directors and Stockholders of ICO, Inc.: 

We
      have
      completed integrated audits of ICO, Inc. s 2006 and 2005 consolidated financial
      statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of September
      30, 2006 and an audit of its 2004 consolidated financial statements in
      accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
      (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented
      below. 

Consolidated
      financial statements and financial statement schedules  

In
      our
      opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index
      present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of ICO, Inc.
      and its subsidiaries at September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their
      operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
      September 30, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
      in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial
      statement schedules listed in the accompanying index presents fairly, in all
      material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
      with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial statements
      and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company s
      management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
      statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits. We conducted
      our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public
      Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
      that
      we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
      the
      financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial
      statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
      and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
      used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
      financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
      reasonable basis for our opinion. 

As
      discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
      restated its consolidated financial statements for the years ended September
      30,
      2005 and 2004. 

Internal
      control over financial reporting  

Also,
      we
      have audited management's assessment, included in Management's Report on
      Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that the
      Company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting
      as
      of September 30, 2006, because of the effect of a material weakness related
      to
      ineffective controls over the accounting for cumulative preferred stock in
      the
      earnings per share calculation, based on criteria established in    Internal
      Control   Integrated Framework   
      issued
      by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
      The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
      control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
      of
      internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express
      opinions on management's assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company's
      internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 

We
      conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance
      with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
      States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
      reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial
      reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control
      over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control
      over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and
      evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and
      performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances.
      We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A
      company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
      and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
      with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control
      over
      financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain
      to
      the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
      reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii)
      provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
      permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
      accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
      being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
      of
      the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
      timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
      company's 

F-2 

Table
          of Contents  

assets
      that could have a material effect on the
      financial statements.  

Because
      of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may
      not
      prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
      effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
      inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
      with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

A
      material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control
      deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material
      misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented
      or detected. As of September 30, 2006, the following material weakness has
      been
      identified and included in management's assessment:  

The
      Company did not maintain effective controls over the accounting for cumulative
      preferred stock in the earnings per share calculation. Specifically, the Company
      did not maintain effective controls over the accounting for cumulative preferred
      stock in the calculation of the Company's basic and diluted earnings per share.
      This control deficiency resulted in the restatement of the consolidated
      financial statements for the periods ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 and
      for
      each of the quarters ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, March 31, 2006 and 2005,
      June 30, 2006 and 2005 and September 30, 2005, and resulted in an audit
      adjustment to the consolidated financial statements for the period ended
      September 30, 2006. Additionally, this control deficiency could result in
      misstatements of the earnings per share amounts that would result in a material
      misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that
      would not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, management has concluded that
      this control deficiency constitutes a material weakness. This material weakness
      was considered in determining the nature, timing and extent of audit tests
      applied in our audit of the 2006 consolidated financial statements, and our
      opinion regarding the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over
      financial reporting does not affect our opinion on those consolidated financial
      statements. 

In
      our
      opinion, management's assessment that ICO, Inc. did not maintain effective
      internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, is fairly
      stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in    Internal
      Control - Integrated Framework   
      issued
      by the COSO. Also, in our opinion, because of the effect of the material
      weakness described above on the achievement of the objectives of the control
      criteria, ICO, Inc. has not maintained effective internal control over financial
      reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria established in
   Internal
      Control - Integrated Framework   
      issued
      by the COSO. 

F-3 

Table
          of Contents  

ICO,
      INC.  

        C ONSOLIDATED
      BALANCE SHEET  

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
      statements. 

F-4 

Table
          of Contents  

ICO,
      INC.  

        C ONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS  

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
      statements  . 

F-5 

Table
          of Contents  

ICO,
      INC.  

        C ONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
      statements. 

F-6 

Table
          of Contents  

ICO,
      INC.  

        C ONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS 
EQUITY  

       AND
      ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)  

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
      statements. 

F-7 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

N ote
      1 - Summary of Significant Accounting
      Policies  

ICO,
      Inc.
      and its subsidiaries ( the Company ) manufacture specialty resins and
      concentrates and provide specialized polymers processing services. The specialty
      resins manufactured by the Company are typically produced into a powder form.
      Concentrates produced by the Company generally are mixed by customers with
      polymer filler resins to give plastic films desired characteristics and to
      reduce customer s raw material costs. Concentrates are polymers loaded with high
      levels of chemical and organic additives that are melt-blended into base resins
      to give plastic films and other finished products desired physical properties.
      The Company also provides toll processing services including ambient grinding,
      jet milling, compounding and ancillary services for polymer resins produced
      in
      pellet form as well as other material. These products and services are provided
      through the Company s 18 operating facilities located in 9 countries in North
      America, Europe, Australasia and South America. The Company s customers include
      major chemical companies, polymer production affiliates of major oil exploration
      and production companies, and manufacturers of plastic products. 

The
      Company was incorporated in 1978 under the laws of the state of Texas.
  During
      fiscal years 2003 and 2002, the Company completed the sale of its oilfield
      services business ( Oilfield Services ).   References
      to the  Company  include ICO, Inc., its subsidiaries and predecessors unless the
      context indicates otherwise. 

Principles
      of consolidation    -
      The
      accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ICO,
      Inc.
      and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and
      transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 

Use
      of Estimates     -        The
      preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
      accounting principles in the United States requires management to make estimates
      and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities
      and
      disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, if any, at the date of the
      financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
      the reporting period. The more significant areas requiring use of estimates
      relate to employee benefit liabilities, valuation allowances for deferred tax
      assets, workers compensation, inventory reserves, allowance for doubtful
      accounts related to accounts receivable and commitments and
      contingencies. 

Estimates
      surrounding employee benefit liabilities are related to the Company maintaining
      a partially self-insured medical plan in the United States (with stop loss
      insurance coverage limiting the Company s expense to $0.1 million per covered
      person per year). Estimates are required in evaluating the Company s medical
      expense incurred, but not paid due to the timing difference between when an
      employee receives medical care and the time the claim is processed and paid
      by
      the Company (typically a two to three month timing difference). The valuation
      of
      deferred tax assets is based upon estimates of future pretax income in
      determining the ability to realize the deferred tax assets in each taxing
      jurisdiction. Estimates for workers  compensation liabilities are due to the
      Company being partially self-insured in the United States (with the exception
      of
      fiscal year 2004) with stop loss insurance coverage limiting the Company s
      expense to $0.2 million per claim in fiscal year 2006, a decline from $0.3
      million in fiscal year 2005. Estimates are made for ultimate costs associated
      with open workers  compensation claims as well as for claims not yet reported.
      Inventory reserves are estimated based upon the Company s review of its
      inventory. This review requires the Company to estimate the fair market value
      of
      certain inventory that has become old or obsolete. Determining the amount of
      the
      allowance for doubtful accounts involves estimating the collectibility of
      customer accounts receivable balances. Estimates surrounding commitments and
      contingencies are related primarily to litigation claims for which the Company
      evaluates the circumstances surrounding the claims to determine how much
      expense, if any, the Company should record. Actual results could differ from
      the
      estimates discussed above. Management believes that its estimates are
      reasonable. 

F-8 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Revenue
      and Related Cost Recognition     -
         The
      Company s accounting policy regarding revenue recognition is to recognize
      revenue when all of the following criteria are met: 

Persuasive
                evidence of an arrangement exists: The Company has received an order
                from
                a customer. 

Delivery
                has occurred or services have been rendered: For product sales, revenue
                recognition occurs when title and risk of ownership have passed to
                the
                customer. For service revenue, revenue recognition occurs upon the
                completion of service. 

Seller s
                price to the buyer is fixed or determinable: Sales prices are agreed
                with
                the customer before delivery has occurred or the services have been
                rendered. 

Collectibility
                is reasonably assured: The Company has a customer credit policy to
                ensure
                collectibility is reasonably
                assured. 

Revenues
      billed to customers related to shipping and handling are included in revenues
      while the associated shipping and handling costs to the Company are included
      in
      cost of sales and services. 

Cash
      and cash equivalents   
      - The
      Company considers all highly-liquid debt securities with a maturity of three
      months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. Those securities are
      readily convertible to known amounts of cash and bear insignificant risk of
      changes in value due to their short maturity period. 

Trade
      Receivables -    Trade
      receivables are recorded at the invoiced amount and typically do not bear
      interest. The allowance for doubtful accounts is the Company s best estimate of
      the amount of probable credit losses in the Company s existing accounts
      receivable. The allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed quarterly. Past
      due
      balances are reviewed individually for collectibility. Account balances are
      charged off against the allowance when it is probable the receivable will not
      be
      recovered. The Company does not have any off -balance sheet credit exposure
      related to customers. 

Inventories   
      -
      Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, cost being determined
      by
      the first-in, first-out method. 

Property,
      plant and equipment   
      - The
      costs of property, plant and equipment, including renewals and improvements
      which extend the life of existing properties, are capitalized and depreciated
      using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the various
      classes of assets as follows: 

Leasehold
      improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the lesser of the
      economic life of the asset or the lease term. Expenditures for maintenance
      and
      repairs are expensed as incurred. The cost of property, plant and equipment
      sold
      or otherwise retired and the related accumulated depreciation are removed from
      the accounts and any resultant gain or loss is included in other income
      (expense). 

Impairment
      of Property, Plant and Equipment -    Property,
      plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever an event or change
      in
      circumstances indicates the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets
      may
      not be recoverable. The impairment review includes comparison of undiscounted
      future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or group of assets
      with
      the associated assets  carrying value. If the carrying value of the asset or
      group of assets exceeds the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without
      interest charges), an impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the
      carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. 

F-9 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Goodwill
         -
      The
      Company does not amortize goodwill. However, the Company tests annually for
      impairment (and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that
      the
      carrying value of goodwill and/or indefinite-lived intangible assets may be
      impaired) using the discounted cash flow method. The Company s goodwill is
      recorded in Bayshore Industrial, Inc. and ICO Courtenay-Australasia. The Company
      completed its annual impairment testing on September 30, 2006 which resulted
      in
      no impairment loss being recognized. 

Currency
      Translation -   
      Amounts
      in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars. When local functional
      currency is translated to U.S. dollars, the effects are recorded as a separate
      component of Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). Exchange gains and losses
      resulting from foreign currency transactions are recognized in earnings. Net
      foreign currency transaction gains (losses) were not significant in fiscal
      years
      2006, 2005 and 2004. 

The
      fluctuations of the U.S Dollar against the Euro, Swedish Krona, British Pound,
      New Zealand Dollar, Brazilian Real, Malaysian Ringgit and the Australian Dollar
      have impacted the translation of revenues and expenses of the Company s
      international operations. The table below summarizes the impact of changing
      exchange rates for the above currencies for fiscal years 2006 and
      2005. 

Stock
      Options     -   
      Effective October 1, 2005, SFAS No. 123R,    Share-Based
      Payment   ,
      became
      effective for the Company. This standard requires, among other things, the
      Company to expense share-based payment transactions using the grant-date fair
      value based method. The Company prospectively adopted the fair value recognition
      provisions of SFAS No. 123 on October 1, 2002, thus the adoption of the revised
      standard did not have a material impact on the Company s financial statements.
      Outstanding awards under the Company s plans vest over periods ranging from
      immediate vesting to four years. The Company expenses the fair value of stock
      option grants over the vesting period, where applicable. In stock option grants
      with a graded vesting schedule, the Company recognizes the fair value of the
      stock option grant over the requisite service period for the entire award and
      ensures that the amount recognized at any date at least equals the portion
      of
      the grant-date value of the stock option award that has vested. 

Environmental
      -   
      Environmental expenditures that relate to current operations are expensed as
      incurred. Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past
      operations and which do not contribute to generating current or future revenue,
      are also expensed. Liabilities are recorded when environmental assessments
      and/or remedial efforts are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated.
      Generally, the timing of these accruals coincides with the earlier of completion
      of a feasibility study or the Company's commitment to a formal plan of action.
      Also, see Note 16 -  Commitments and Contingencies.  

Income
      taxes -   
      The
      provision for income taxes includes federal, state, and foreign income taxes
      currently payable and deferred based on currently enacted tax laws. Deferred
      income taxes are provided for the tax consequences of differences between the
      financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities. The Company reduces
      deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance when, based on its estimates,
      it is
      more likely than not that a portion of those assets will not be realized in
      a
      future period. 

The
      Company does not provide for U.S. income taxes on foreign subsidiaries 
undistributed earnings intended to be permanently reinvested in foreign
      operations. The Company has unremitted earnings from foreign subsidiaries of
      approximately $7.9 million. 

F-10 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Forward
      Exchange Agreements -    All
      derivative financial instruments that qualify for hedge accounting, are
      recognized in the financial statements and measured at fair value. Changes
      in
      the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognized in
      stockholders  equity (as a component of comprehensive income (loss)). The
      Company recognizes the amount of hedge ineffectiveness in the Consolidated
      Statement of Operations. The hedge ineffectiveness was not a significant amount
      for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Cash flows from
      the derivative financial instruments which are classified as cash flow hedges
      have been classified in the same category as the item being hedged in the
      Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 

The
      Company s primary market risk exposures include resin price risk, debt
      obligations carrying variable interest rates and forward currency exchange
      contracts intended to hedge accounts payable obligations denominated in
      currencies other than a given operation s functional currency. Forward currency
      exchange contracts are used by the Company as a method to establish a fixed
      functional currency cost for certain raw material purchases denominated in
      non-functional currency (typically the U.S. dollar). 

Sales
      Taxes   
      - The
      Company presents its revenues in the Statement of Operations net of any sales
      taxes (excluded from revenues). 

Reclassifications
      -    Certain
      reclassifications have been made to the prior year amounts in order to conform
      to the current year classifications including separately showing  Income taxes
      payable  in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and separately showing  Increase in
      short-term borrowings under credit facilities, net  in the Consolidated
      Statement of Cash Flows. 

Recently
      Issued Accounting Pronouncements  

In
      May
      2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Statement of
      Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 154,    Accounting
      Changes and Error Corrections - a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB
      Statement No. 3   .
      SFAS
      No. 154 changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a
      change in accounting principle. Previously, most voluntary changes in accounting
      principles required recognition via a cumulative effect adjustment within net
      income of the period of the change. SFAS No. 154 requires retrospective
      application to prior periods  financial statements, unless it is impracticable
      to determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of
      a
      change in accounting principle. SFAS 154 also requires that retrospective
      application of a change in accounting principle be limited to the direct effects
      of the change. Indirect effects of a change in accounting principle should
      be
      recognized in the period of the accounting change. SFAS 154 further requires
      a
      change in depreciation, amortization or depletion method for long-lived,
      non-financial assets to be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate
      effected by a change in accounting principle. SFAS No.154 is effective for
      accounting changes made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005;
      however, the Statement does not change the transition provisions of any existing
      accounting pronouncements. The Company will adopt this statement effective
      October 1, 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 154 is not expected to have a material
      effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, results of operations
      or cash flows. 

In
      July
      2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB Interpretation No.
      48,    Accounting
      for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - An Interpretation of FASB Statement No.
      109   
      ( FIN
      48 ), which clarifies the accounting and disclosure for uncertain tax positions,
      as defined. FIN 48 seeks to reduce the diversity in practice associated with
      certain aspects of the recognition and measurement related to accounting for
      income taxes. FIN 48 requires the use of a two-step approach for recognizing
      and
      measuring tax benefits taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and
      disclosures regarding uncertainties in income tax positions. The Company is
      required to adopt FIN 48 effective October 1, 2007. The cumulative effect of
      initially adopting FIN 48 will be recorded as an adjustment to opening retained
      earnings in the year of adoption and will be presented separately. Only tax
      positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold at the
      effective date may be recognized on adoption of FIN 48. The Company is currently
      evaluating the impact this new standard will have on its future results of
      operations and financial position. 

In
      September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,   
      Employer s Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
      Plans an amendment of SFAS Nos. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)    ( SFAS
      No. 158 ). SFAS No. 158 contains a number of amendments to current accounting
      for defined benefit plans; however, the primary change is the requirement to
      recognize in the balance sheet the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined
      benefit plan measured as the difference between  

F-11 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

the
      fair
      value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation. Stockholders  equity
      will also be increased or decreased (through  other comprehensive income ) for
      the overfunded or underfunded status. SFAS No. 158 does not change the
      determination of pension plan liabilities or assets, or the income statement
      recognition of periodic pension expense. The recognition and disclosure
      provisions of SFAS No. 158 are effective for fiscal years ending after December
      15, 2006. The Company will adopt these provisions of the standard as of
      September 30, 2007. The Company has a defined benefit plan in its Holland and
      France subsidiaries. At September 30, 2006, the projected benefit obligations
      of
      the Company s plans exceeded plan assets by approximately $1.7 million. Had the
      Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 as of September 30, 2006, Other
      Current Liabilities would have been increased by approximately $0.8 million,
      Deferred Income Taxes would have been reduced by approximately $0.2 million
      and
      Stockholders  Equity would have been reduced by approximately $0.6
      million. 

In
      September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,   
      Fair
      Value Measurements   
      ( SFAS
      No. 157 ). SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for
      measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands
      disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 does not require any
      new
      fair value measurements, rather, its application will be made pursuant to other
      accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. SFAS
      No. 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning
      after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those years. This standard
      will be effective for the Company starting with our interim period ending
      December 31, 2008. The provisions of SFAS No. 157 are to be applied
      prospectively upon adoption, except for limited specified exceptions. The
      Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157 to have a material impact
      on our financial position or results of operations. 

In
      September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) staff issued
      Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,   
      Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying
      Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements   
      ( SAB
      No. 108 ). SAB No. 108 was issued in order to eliminate the diversity of
      practice surrounding how public companies quantify financial statement
      misstatements. The SEC staff, in SAB No. 108, established an approach that
      requires quantification of financial statement misstatements based on the
      effects of the misstatements on each of a company s financial statements and the
      related financial statement disclosures. SAB No. 108 permits existing public
      companies to initially apply its provisions either by (i) restating prior
      financial statements as if SAB No. 108 had always been used or (ii) recording
      the cumulative effect of initially applying SAB No. 108. The Company will
      initially apply the provisions of SAB No. 108 in connection with the preparation
      of its annual financial statements for the year ending September30, 2007. The
      Company does not expect the initial application of SAB No. 108 to result in
      a
      restatement of prior financial statements or the recording by the Company of
      a
      cumulative adjustment. 

Note
      2 - Restatement of Previously Reported Earnings Per Share  

During
      fiscal 2006, an error was discovered in how the Company s previously reported
      earnings per share were calculated. The Company did not deduct undeclared and
      unpaid Preferred Stock dividends, beginning with the quarter ended March 31,
      2003, that accrue to the liquidation preference of the Company s outstanding
      Preferred Stock from net income (loss) in calculating earnings per share. The
      restatement does not impact previously reported revenues, cash flow, net income
      (loss) or balance sheet components. The Company has restated its earnings per
      share for the years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 and for each of the
      quarters ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, March 31, 2006 and 2005, June 30,
      2006 and 2005, and September 30, 2005. 

The
      following tables present selected Consolidated Statement of Operations data
      for
      the years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004. The Company previously reported
      basic earnings per share erroneously by not deducting the unpaid and undeclared
      Preferred Stock dividends of $544,000 per quarter and $2,176,000 per year from
      net income (loss) in deriving basic earnings per share. In computing diluted
      earnings per share, the Company erroneously did not deduct the unpaid and
      undeclared Preferred Stock dividends from net income (loss), and incorrectly
      assumed the conversion of the Preferred Stock by including the resultant common
      equivalent shares in the diluted earnings per share
      computation. 

F-12 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Selected
      Consolidated Statement of Operations data: 

See
      Note
      21  Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)  for the effect of the
      restatement upon quarterly unaudited data. 

Note
      3 - Concentration of Credit Risk  

The
      primary customers of the Company's polymers processing business segment are
      large producers of polymers (which include major chemical companies and polymers
      production affiliates of major oil production companies), and end users such
      as
      rotational molders. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of revenues
      during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004. The Company has long-term contract
      arrangements with many polymers processing customers whereby it has agreed
      to
      process or manufacture certain polymers products for a single or multi-year
      term
      at an agreed-upon fee structure. 

Financial
      instruments, which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit
      risk, consist primarily of trade receivables. The Company provides allowances
      for potential credit losses when collection becomes doubtful. Accordingly,
      management considers such credit risk to be limited. 

Note
      4 - Fair Value of Financial Instruments  

The
      Company s financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, trade
      receivables, accounts payable, long-term debt and foreign currency derivative
      contracts. The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables,
      accounts payable and short term debt approximate fair value due to the highly
      liquid nature of these short-term instruments. Based on borrowing rates
      currently available to the Company for loans with similar terms, the carrying
      value of long-term debt approximates fair value. 

F-13 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The
      Company does enter into forward currency exchange contracts related to future
      purchase obligations denominated in a non-functional currency. These forward
      currency exchange contracts qualify as cash flow hedging instruments and are
      highly effective. The following table includes the total foreign exchange
      contracts outstanding on September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005: 

Note
      5 - Goodwill  

The
      changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended September 30,
      2006 and 2005 are as follows: 

Note
      6 - Impairment, Restructuring and Other Costs  

During
      fiscal year 2006, the Company incurred costs of $55,000 as a result of Hurricane
      Rita (caused minor damage to the Company s China, Texas location) and lease
      cancellation costs of $63,000 associated with the former location of its
      European technical center, which was relocated in fiscal 2005. 

The
      Company incurred costs in fiscal year 2005 as a result of Hurricane Rita
      ($110,000), the relocation of its European technical center ($0.2 million),
      and
      the 2004 closure of its Swedish manufacturing operation ($135,000). 

During
      fiscal year 2004, the Company recognized costs associated with the closure
      of
      the Company s Swedish operation ($0.6 million) during fiscal year 2004,
  severance
      costs related to the termination of certain employees in North America and
      Europe ($0.2 million) and costs associated with the closure of a rotational
      mold
      fabrication business in the UK ($55,000). 

All
      impairment, restructuring and other costs have been paid as of September 30,
      2006. 

Note
      7 - Inventories  

Inventories
      at September 30 consisted of the following: 

F-14 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Note
      8 - Property, Plant and Equipment  

Property,
      plant and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following at September
      30: 

F-15 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Note
      9 - Long-term Debt  

Long-term
      debt at September 30, 2006 and 2005 consisted of the following. Obligations
      denominated in a foreign currency have been translated using year-end exchange
      rates. 

September
                30, 2006  

September
                30, 2005  

(Dollars
                in Thousands)  

Term
                loan of the Company s Italian subsidiary, collateralized by a mortgage
                over the subsidiary s real estate. Principal and interest paid quarterly
                with a fixed interest rate of 5.2% through June 2016. 

$ 

6,222 

$ 

- 

Term
                loans of two of the Company s U.S. subsidiaries, collateralized by a
                mortgage over the subsidiaries  real estate. Principal and interest paid
                monthly with a fixed interest rate of 6.0% through April
                2020. 

4,146 

4,338 

Term
                loans of one of the Company s U.S. subsidiaries, collateralized by a
                mortgage over the subsidiary s real estate. Principal and interest paid
                monthly with a fixed interest rate of 6.0% through May
                2021. 

3,274 

- 

Term
                loan of the Company s U.K. subsidiary, collateralized by property, plant
                and equipment of the subsidiary. Interest paid monthly with a fixed
                interest rate (due to an interest rate swap with same terms as the
                debt)
                of 7.2% through March 2015. Principal repayments made
                monthly. 

2,068 

2,185 

Term
                loan of the Company s French subsidiary. Principal and interest paid
                quarterly with a variable interest rate through September 2010. Interest
                rate as of September 30, 2006 was 3.8%. 

1,903 

- 

Term
                loan of the Company s Dutch subsidiary, collateralized by property, plant
                and equipment of the subsidiary. Principal and interest paid quarterly
                with a fixed interest rate of 5.4% through October 2014. 

1,681 

1,688 

Term
                loan of the Company s Australian subsidiary, collateralized by a mortgage
                over the subsidiary s assets. Interest rates as of September 30, 2006 and
                September 30, 2005 were 8.2%. Interest rate is adjusted quarterly
                and
                limited to a minimum rate of 7.7% and a maximum rate of 9.0% through
                April
                2007. Interest and principal payments are made quarterly. 

1,574 

2,377 

Term
                loan of the Company s U.K. subsidiary, collateralized by property, plant
                and equipment of the subsidiary. Principal and interest paid monthly
                with
                a fixed interest rate of 6.7% through March 2010. 

1,241 

1,460 

Term
                loan of the Company s Dutch subsidiary, collateralized by property, plant
                and equipment of the subsidiary. Principal and interest paid monthly
                with
                a fixed interest rate of 5.0% through January 2010. 

880 

1,062 

Term
                loan of one of the Company s U.S. subsidiaries, collateralized by certain
                machinery and equipment of the subsidiary. Principal and interest
                paid
                monthly with a variable interest rate through June 2012. Interest
                rates as
                of September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005 were 7.3% and 5.9%,
                respectively. 

821 

964 

Term
                loans of the Company s Italian subsidiary collateralized by certain
                property, plant and equipment of the subsidiary. Interest rate as
                of
                September 30, 2005 was 5.9%. 

- 

4,155 

10
                3/8% Series B Senior Notes 

- 

3,000 

Various
                others loans and capital leases collateralized by mortgages on certain
                land and buildings and other assets of the Company. As of September
                30,
                2006, interest rates range between 3.0% and 10.25% with maturity
                dates
                between October 2006 and February 2027. The interest and principal
                payments are made monthly, quarterly or semi-annually. 

2,445 

3,421 

Total 

26,255 

24,650 

Less
                current maturities of long-term debt 

4,696 

5,657 

Long-term
                debt less current maturities 

$ 

21,559 

$ 

18,993 

During
      fiscal year 2006, the Company closed on numerous refinancings in order to
      increase the Company s liquidity and lower the Company s cost of debt. In total,
      the Company obtained new term loans of $11.9 million within the Company s U.S.
      and European subsidiaries. The Company repaid $11.0 million of long-term debt,
      including the redemption of the remaining $3.0 million of the Company s 10 3/8%
      Series B Senior Notes at par value. 

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, the Company s Australian subsidiary was in violation of a
      financial debt covenant related to $1.6 million of term debt and $3.4 million
      of
      short-term borrowings under credit facilities. The Company has received a letter
      of waiver from National Australia Bank Limited in relation to the violation
      of
      this debt covenant and an extension on the maturity of the facility to April
      2007. These debt amounts are classified as current liabilities in the Company s
      Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

F-16 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The
      Company s total carrying amount of assets pledged as collateral on its long term
      loans and credit arrangements is approximately $134.2 million, comprised mainly
      of certain property, plant and equipment, accounts receivable and
      inventory. 

The
      Company s foreign debt obligations contain various financial covenants and
      restrictions. Approximately 36% of the Company s net assets are restricted from
      being distributed to the parent Company without approval from certain foreign
      lenders. 

Aggregate
      maturities of the Company s debt including capital lease obligations are as
      follows: 

Note
      10 - Credit Arrangements  

The
      Company maintains several lines of credit. Total credit availability net of
      outstanding borrowings, letters of credit and applicable foreign currency
      contracts totaled $41.1 million and $34.5 million at September 30, 2006 and
      September 30, 2005, respectively. The facilities are collateralized by certain
      assets of the Company. Borrowings under these agreements totaled $18.0 million
      and $10.0 million at September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005,
      respectively. 

There
      was
      $0.8 million and $1.0 million of outstanding borrowings under the Company s
      domestic credit facility with Wachovia Bank as of September 30, 2006 and
      September 30, 2005, respectively. The amount of available borrowings under
      the
      Company s domestic credit facility with Wachovia Bank, National Association
      ( Wachovia Bank ) was $20.8 million and $19.7 million based on the credit
      facility limits, current levels of accounts receivables, inventory, outstanding
      letters of credit and borrowings as of September 30, 2006 and September 30,
      2005, respectively. 

The
      Company has various foreign credit facilities in eight foreign countries. The
      available credit under these facilities varies based on the levels of accounts
      receivable within the foreign subsidiary, or is a fixed amount. The foreign
      credit facilities are collateralized by assets owned by the foreign subsidiaries
      and also carry various financial covenants. There were $17.2 million and $9.0
      million of outstanding borrowings under these foreign credit facilities as
      of
      September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively. The aggregate amount
      of
      available borrowings under the foreign credit facilities was $20.3 million
      (of
      which $1.0 million relates to the Company s Australian subsidiary, which
      obtained a waiver from National Australia Bank Limited regarding a violation
      of
      a financial covenant contained in the governing loan agreement) and $14.8
      million based on the credit facility limits, current levels of accounts
      receivables, outstanding letters of credit and borrowings as of September 30,
      2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively. 

The
      weighted average interest rate charged on short-term borrowings under the
      Company s various credit facilities at September 30, 2006 and 2005 was 6.0% and
      6.7%, respectively. 

On
      October 27, 2006, the Company entered into a five-year Credit Agreement (the
       Credit Agreement ) with KeyBank National Association and Wells Fargo Bank
      National Association (collectively referred to herein as  KeyBank ),
      establishing a $45.0 million domestic credit facility (the  Credit Facility )
      and terminated its existing $25.0 million senior credit facility with Wachovia
      Bank, National Association ( Wachovia Bank ). The borrowing capacity available
      to the Company under the KeyBank Credit Facility consists of a five-year $15.0
      million term loan and a five-year $30.0 million revolving credit facility.
      The
      KeyBank Credit Facility was utilized to replace commitments and outstanding
      borrowings under the Company s $25.0 million credit facility with Wachovia Bank.
      Proceeds of the KeyBank Credit Facility are being or may be used for working
      capital and for general corporate purposes, and have been used to fund
      repurchases of the Company s Preferred Stock. The $45.0 million KeyBank Credit
      Facility contains a variable interest rate equal to either (at the Company s
      option depending on borrowing levels) zero percent (0%) or one quarter percent
      ( %) per annum in excess of the prime rate or one and one quarter percent (1 %),
      one and one half percent (1 %) or two percent (2%) per annum in excess of the
      adjusted Eurodollar rate, and is based upon the Company s leverage ratio, as
      defined in the Credit Agreement. The borrowing capacity varies based upon the
      levels of domestic cash,  

F-17 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

receivables
      and inventory. Under the new KeyBank Credit Facility, the amount of available
      borrowings based on the Credit Facility limits, outstanding letters of credit
      and borrowings as of November 30, 2006 was approximately $25.6 million,
      including the $15.0 million term loan the Company has not drawn down as of
      November 30, 2006. 

The
      Credit Agreement establishing the new KeyBank Credit Facility contains financial
      covenants including minimum tangible net worth, leverage ratio, fixed charge
      coverage ratio, and a required level of profitability. In addition, the Credit
      Agreement contains a number of limitations on the ability of the Company and
      its
      restricted U.S. subsidiaries to (i) incur additional indebtedness, (ii) pay
      dividends or redeem any Common Stock, (iii) incur liens or other encumbrances
      on
      their assets, (iv) enter into transactions with affiliates, (v) merge with
      or
      into any other entity or (vi) sell any of their assets. 

In
      addition, any  change of control  of the Company or its restricted U.S.
      subsidiaries will constitute a default under the Credit Agreement.  Change of
      Control,  as defined in the Credit Agreement, is summarized as follows: (i) the
      acquisition of, or, if earlier, the shareholder or director approval of the
      acquisition of, ownership or voting control, directly or indirectly,
      beneficially or of record, by any person, entity, or group (within the meaning
      of Rule 13d-3 of the SEC under the 1934 Act, as then in effect), of shares
      representing more than 50% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented
      by
      the issued and outstanding Common Stock of the Company; (ii) the occupation
      of a
      majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of
      the
      Company by individuals who were neither (A) nominated by the Company s board of
      directors nor (B) appointed by directors so nominated; (iii) the occurrence
      of a
      change in control, or other similar provision, under or with respect to any
       Material Indebtedness Agreement  (as defined in the Credit Agreement); or (iv)
      the failure of the Company to own directly or indirectly, all of the outstanding
      equity interests of the Company s Bayshore Industrial L.P. and ICO Polymers
      North America, Inc. subsidiaries. 

Note
      11 - Earnings (Loss) Per Share ( EPS )  

The
      Company presents both basic and diluted EPS amounts. Basic EPS is computed
      by
      dividing income available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number
      of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS assumes the conversion
      of all dilutive securities. 

Basic
      and
      diluted earnings per share for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005
      and 2004 are presented below: 

See
      Note
      2  Restatement of Previously Reported Earnings per Share  for discussion of the
      restatement of previously reported earnings per share for fiscal years 2005
      and
      2004. 

The
      difference between basic and diluted weighted-average common shares results
      from
      the assumed exercise of outstanding stock options calculated using the treasury
      stock method. The following presents the number of incremental weighted-average
      shares used in computing diluted per share amounts: 

F-18 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The
      total
      amount of anti-dilutive securities for the years ended September 30, 2006,
      2005,
      and 2004 were 5,080,600, 4,714,600 and 5,362,600 shares,
      respectively. 

The
      following presents the computation of adjusted net income (loss) used in
      computing earnings per share: 

Note
      - 12     Stockholders 
      Equity  

During
      November 1993, the Company completed its initial offering of the $6.75
      Convertible Exchangeable Preferred Stock (the  Preferred Stock ). The shares of
      Preferred Stock are evidenced by Depositary Shares, each representing 1/4 of
      a
      share of Preferred Stock. A total of 1,290,000 Depositary Shares were sold
      at a
      price of $25 per share. Each share of Preferred Stock is convertible into 10.96
      shares of the Company s Common Stock (equivalent to 2.74 shares of Common Stock
      per Depositary Share) at a conversion price of $9.125 per common share subject
      to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events. The Board of Directors
      approved the recording of the Preferred Stock offering by allocating $.01 per
      Depositary Share to Preferred Stock and the remainder to Additional Paid-In
      Capital. Preferred Stock dividends of $1.6875 per Depositary Share were paid
      quarterly through December 31, 2002. Quarterly dividends (in an aggregate amount
      of $544,000 per quarter prior to the reduction in outstanding shares of the
      Preferred Stock following the recent repurchases described herein) have not
      been
      paid or declared on the Preferred Stock since January 1, 2003, and dividends
      in
      arrears through September 30, 2006 aggregated $8.2 million, or $6.33 per
      Depositary Share. Dividends on Preferred Stock are cumulative and missed
      dividends accrue to the liquidation preference of the Preferred Stock.
  During
      the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, the holders of the Preferred Stock elected
      two additional directors to the Company s Board of Directors because the Company
      had not declared a dividend on the Preferred Stock for six consecutive quarters.
        Any
      undeclared or unpaid Preferred Stock dividends will need to be declared and
      paid
      before the Company can pay a dividend on the Company s Common
      Stock. 

No
      cash
      dividends were paid during each fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, 2005
      and
      2004, respectively, on the Company s Preferred Stock. Cumulative liquidating
      dividends on the Company s Preferred Stock paid out of Additional Paid-in
      Capital through September 30, 2006 totaled $7.7 million. Cumulative dividends
      on
      the Company s Preferred Stock paid out of accumulated deficit totaled $12.1
      million through September 30, 2006. 

There
      were no dividends paid on the Company s Common Stock during fiscal years ended
      September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Cumulative liquidating dividends on the
      Company s Common Stock paid out of Additional Paid-in Capital through September
      30, 2006 totaled $5.7 million. Cumulative dividends on the Company s Common
      Stock paid out of accumulated deficit totaled $7.8 million through September
      30,
      2006. 

On
      October 3, 2006, the holders of approximately 80.9% of the voting power of
      the
      Preferred Stock proposed and approved amendments to the Company s Statement of
      Designations for its Preferred Stock, which became effective November 13, 2006.
        The
      amendments authorize the Company to repurchase shares of Preferred Stock while
      dividends on shares of Preferred Stock are in arrears. The amendments also
        terminate  
      the
  right
      of
      holders of Preferred Stock to elect up to two directors while dividends payable
      to holders of Preferred Stock are in arrears, when there are fewer than 80,000
      shares of Preferred Stock outstanding (or 320,000 Depositary Shares). Through
      December 11, 2006, the Company repurchased 273,538 shares of Preferred

F-19 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Stock
      (represented by   1,094,153
      Depositary Shares), or 84.8% of the authorized and outstanding Preferred Stock
      for $26.00 per Depositary Share, for total consideration of $28.4 million.
      The
      dividends that were in arrears on these 1,094,153 Depositary Shares were
      extinguished by the repurchase. Therefore, dividends in arrears as of December
      11, 2006 aggregate only $1.2 million rather than the $8.2 million in arrears
      as
      of September 30, 2006.  
      This
      repurchase also leaves fewer than 80,000 shares of Preferred Stock (represented
      by fewer than 320,000 Depositary Shares) outstanding, and thus, terminated
      the
      right of the holders of the Preferred Stock to elect special directors. Except
      as described in the preceding sentences, the referenced amendments to the
      Statement of Designations for the Preferred Stock do not affect the rights
      of
      the holders of Preferred Stock or the Common Stock. The number of authorized
      shares of Preferred Stock and Common Stock are not affected by the foregoing;
      however, the Company plans to retire the Preferred Stock that has been
      repurchased and that may be repurchased in future transactions. 

Note
      13 - Stock Option Plans  

The
      Company has five active stock option plans, one for non-employee directors
      and
      four for employees, as described below. 

The
      Company s Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors    
      -    The
      purpose of the Third Amended and Restated 1993 Stock Option Plan for
      Non-Employee Directors (the  Director Plan ) is to provide an additional
      incentive to attract and retain qualified and competent directors through the
      encouragement of stock ownership in the Company by such persons. Under the
      Director Plan each non-employee director of the Company is automatically granted
      (i) options ( Options ) to purchase 5,000 shares of the Company s Common Stock
      ( Shares ) on the date when he or she becomes a director, and (ii) Options to
      purchase an additional 5,000 Shares on the first business day after the date
      of
      each Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Company (such Options automatically
      granted as described in the preceding sentence being referred to herein as
       Annual Director Options ). At the Company s 2006 Annual Meeting of
      Shareholders, the Company s Shareholders approved an amendment to the Director
      Plan, effective as of November 18, 2005, allowing for discretionary Option
      grants to non-employee directors ( Discretionary Director Options ). All Options
      granted under the Director Plan are issued at an exercise price per share equal
      to 100% of the  fair market value  of the Company s Common Stock on the date of
      grant, defined as the closing sales price of the Shares on NASDAQ on the
      business day immediately preceding the day of grant. Furthermore, no Options
      granted under the Director Plan are Incentive Stock Options as defined in
      Section 422(b) of the Internal Revenue Code. The Annual Director Options vest
      six months and one day after the date of grant, and the unexercised portion
      of
      any Annual Director Options automatically terminates on the earliest of (i)
      thirty days after the optionee ceases to be a director for any reason other
      than
      as a result of death of the optionee; (ii) one year after the date an optionee
      ceases to be a director by reason of death of the optionee, or six months after
      the optionee s death if that occurs during the thirty day period described in
      (i); or (iii) on the tenth anniversary of the date of grant of the option.
      Discretionary Director Options permitted under the Director Plan may have
      alternative vesting schedules and termination schedules, and are not limited
      in
      terms of the number of Options that may be granted to a particular non-employee
      director in a given time frame. The maximum number of Shares that may be issued
      pursuant to Options granted under the Director Plan is 410,000. In the event
      that a former non-employee director s Options terminate because the director
      failed to exercise them within the required time frame, that former non-employee
      director s Options will become available for re-grant under the Director Plan.
      New shares of Common Stock are issued upon exercise of Stock Options. As of
      September 30, 2006, Options to purchase 150,000 Shares, with a weighted average
      exercise price of $2.65 per share, were exercisable. Options to purchase 200,000
      shares with a weighted average price of $2.71 per share were outstanding under
      the terms of the Director Plan. No new Options may be granted under the Director
      Plan after January 8, 2009. 

The
      Company s Employee Stock Option Plans   
      - The
      common purpose of the Company s four active employee stock option plans
      (collectively  Employee Plans ), with inception dates in 1994, 1995, 1996, and
      1998 respectively, is to promote the interests of the Company and its
      shareholders by providing a means for employees of the Company and its
      subsidiaries to acquire a proprietary interest in the Company, thereby
      strengthening the Company s ability to attract capable management personnel and
      provide inducement for such employees to remain employed by the Company and
      its
      subsidiaries and to perform at their maximum levels. The price at which each
      Share may be purchased pursuant to an Incentive Stock Option (as defined in
      Section 422(b) of the Internal Revenue Code) granted under the 1994, 1995 and
      1996 Employee Plans, and pursuant to any Option granted under the 1998 Employee
      Plan, cannot be less than the fair market value of the Company s Common Stock on
      the date of grant, defined as the closing sales price of the Shares on NASDAQ
      on
      the date of grant. Options issued under any of the Employee Plans may vest
      immediately, or may vest over a specified employment period after the date
      of
      grant, and may have a term of up to 10 years after the grant date during which
      they can be exercised, at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the
      Board of Directors, which has been designated to administer the Employee Plans.
      New shares of Common Stock are issued upon exercise of Stock  

F-20 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Options.
      Options granted under the Employee Plans may be Incentive Stock Options or
      nonqualified stock options (meaning any Option granted under the Plan which
      is
      not an Incentive Stock Option). In the event that the Company merges into,
      consolidates with, or sells or transfers substantially all of its assets to
      another corporation and provision is not made pursuant to the terms of such
      transaction for the assumption by the surviving, resulting, or acquiring
      corporation of outstanding options under the Employee Plans, or for the
      substitution of new Options therefore, according to the 1995, 1996 and 1998
      Employee Plans as written as of November 15, 2005 and Options granted as of
      that
      date, all outstanding Options subject to a vesting schedule shall become fully
      (100%) vested prior to the effective date of such transaction. Most Options
      granted under the Employee Plans after November 15, 2005 provide for vesting
      as
      described in the preceding sentence; however, on November 16, 2005, the 1998
      Employee Plan was amended to provide that, if specified in the Option Agreement
      pursuant to which Options are granted to an employee, it may be agreed that
      unvested Options do not automatically vest in the circumstances described in
      the
      previous sentence.      As
      of
      September 30, 2006, options to purchase 1,135,000 Shares, with a weighted
      average exercise price of $2.24 per Share, were exercisable and options to
      purchase 1,921,000 Shares, with a weighted average exercise price of $2.71
      per
      Share, were outstanding under the terms of the Plans. No new options may be
      granted under the 1994, 1995 or 1996 Plans. No new options may be granted under
      the 1998 Plan after January 12, 2008. 

There
      were 266,000, 793,000 and 643,000 Shares available for grant (representing
      the
      sum of Options available for grant under the Director Plan and the four Employee
      Plans) at September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. 

During
      the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, SFAS No. 123R,    Share-Based
      Payment   ,
      became
      effective for the Company.  This standard requires, among other things, a
      Company to expense share-based payment transactions using the grant-date fair
      value based method. The Company prospectively adopted the fair value recognition
      provisions of SFAS No. 123 on October 1, 2002, thus the adoption of the revised
      standard did not have a material impact on the Company s financial statements.
 Total stock option compensation expense included in selling, general and
      administrative expense in the Consolidated Statement of Operations was $0.9
      million, $0.7 million and $0.7 million for the fiscal years ended September
      30,
      2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The total income tax benefit (provision)
      recognized related to stock option activity in the consolidated statement of
      operations was $0.2 million, $(0.1) million and $0.2 million for the fiscal
      years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 

All
      Options granted during the fiscal year were granted at an exercise price equal
      to the fair market value of the Shares on the Date of Grant (as defined in
      the
      applicable Option plan). The Company uses the Black-Scholes pricing model to
      calculate the grant - date fair value of its Options for accounting purposes.
      The following table presents the assumptions used in valuing Options granted
      during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004. 

The
      following is a summary of stock option activity for the year ended September
      30,
      2006: 

F-21 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The
      total
      intrinsic value of Options exercised during the fiscal years ended September
      30,
      2006, 2005 and 2004 was $0.4 million, $0.1 million and $0.1 million,
      respectively, and the total cash received was $0.4 million, $0.2 million and
      $0.1 million, respectively. 

During
      fiscal year 2006, the Company granted Options to purchase 212,260 shares of
      the
      Company s Common Stock ( Shares ) to the Company s Presidents of ICO Polymers
      North America, ICO Europe, ICO Courtenay-Australasia and Bayshore Industrial.
      These Options vest over a four-year period, with exercise prices ranging from
      $2.40 to $5.40 per Share. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company
      granted Options to purchase 360,000 Shares to A. John Knapp, Jr., the Company s
  President
      and Chief Executive Officer. The Options granted to Mr. Knapp vest over fiscal
      years 2006 and 2007, and 180,000 of the referenced Options contain certain
      performance conditions that must be met in order for the Options to vest.
      Furthermore, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 the Company granted
      Options to purchase 60,000 Shares to the Chairman of the Company s Board of
      Directors, Gregory T. Barmore. Options granted to Mr. Barmore will vest over
      fiscal years 2006 and 2007 and 30,000 of those Options contain certain
      performance conditions that must be met in order for the Options to
      vest. 

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, there were 210,000 Options outstanding that contained
      performance conditions, all of which were nonvested. These options vest based
      on
      the financial performance of the Company in fiscal year 2006 and fiscal year
      2007. The performance conditions related to fiscal year 2006 were achieved,
      and
      on December 15, 2006, 105,000 of the 210,000 performance-based Options will
      vest. The weighted average exercise price of the performance-based Options
      is
      $2.40, and the weighted average remaining contractual term of the referenced
      Options is 6 years as of September 30, 2006. The weighted average grant date
      fair value of the referenced performance-based Options was $1.34. Aggregate
      intrinsic value of the outstanding Options with performance conditions as of
      September 30, 2006 is $0.9 million. 

On
      September 2, 2005, W. Robert Parkey, Jr. resigned from his position as the
      President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and from the Board of
      Directors, effective as of September 30, 2005. In connection with his
      resignation, Mr. Parkey entered into an Employment, Consulting and Separation
      Agreement and Release ( Separation Agreement ). As part of the Separation
      Agreement, the Company accelerated vesting on certain outstanding stock options
      and Mr. Parkey forfeited certain outstanding stock options. In addition, the
      Company modified the expiration date of certain outstanding stock options.
      As a
      result of these modifications, the Company recognized a reduction in stock
      option compensation expense of $0.1 million in September 2005. In connection
      with the resignation, the Company recognized $0.2 million of severance expense
      in fiscal 2005. 

A
      summary
      of the status of the Company s nonvested Options as of September 30, 2006 and
      changes during the twelve months ended September 30, 2006, is presented
      below: 

As
      of
      September 30, 2006, the total stock option compensation expense not yet
      recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations related to the 836,000
      of
      nonvested stock options was $0.9 million which will be recognized over a
      weighted-average period of approximately 2.3 years. 

F-22 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Note
      14 - Income Taxes  

The
      amounts of income (loss) before income taxes attributable to domestic and
      foreign continuing operations are as follows: 

The
      expense (benefit) for income taxes consists of the following: 

A
      reconciliation of the income tax expense (benefit), for continuing operations,
      at the federal statutory tax rate of 35% to the Company s effective tax rate is
      as follows: 

F-23 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Deferred
      tax assets (liabilities) result from the cumulative effect of temporary
      differences in the recognition of expenses (revenues) between tax returns and
      financial statements. The significant components of the balances are as
      follows: 

The
      total
      net deferred tax asset at September 30, 2006 is comprised of $2.2 million of
      net
      current deferred tax assets and $2.4 million of net non-current deferred tax
      liabilities. 

The
      net
      operating loss carry-forwards of the Company s Brazilian and UK subsidiaries are
      $1.6 million and $1.4 million, respectively. These can be carried forward
      indefinitely. The Company s Italian subsidiary has a net operating loss
      carry-forward of $1.4 million of which $0.7 million will expire in 2008 and
      $0.7
      million will expire in 2010. 

During
      fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company generated taxable income in
      certain European subsidiaries that enabled the subsidiaries to utilize tax
      assets that were previously reserved of $0.8 million, $1.0 million and $2.1
      million, respectively. The Company currently has a valuation allowance of $2.3
      million against the deferred tax assets of its Italian and Brazilian
      subsidiaries. Part of the Italian deferred tax asset was utilized in 2006 due
      to
      estimated taxable income and resulted in a reduction in the valuation allowance
      of $0.8 million. Despite the fact that the Italian subsidiary has current
      taxable income and is projecting future taxable income and the Company believes
      the deferred tax asset will ultimately be realized, the positive evidence
      required to overcome cumulative historical operating losses was not sufficient
      to support recognition as of the end of fiscal year 2006. 

The
      American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the  Act ) provides a tax deduction for
      qualified production activities. During 2006, the Company recorded a tax benefit
      of $111,000 from the application of these provisions to its production
      activities. 

The
      Act
      also provides tax benefits with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings.
      The Act provides for a special one-time tax rate of 5.25%. Accordingly, during
      2006, the Company repatriated foreign earnings in the amount of $6.4 million
      from two of its European subsidiaries. The impact on current tax expense for
      2006 was $0.3 million. 

F-24 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The
      Company does not provide for U.S. income taxes on foreign subsidiaries 
undistributed earnings intended to be permanently reinvested in foreign
      operations. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax
      that
      might be payable should the earnings be remitted or deemed remitted or should
      the Company sell its stock in the subsidiaries. The Company has unremitted
      earnings from foreign subsidiaries of approximately $7.9 million. The Company
      has determined that the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries,
      exclusive of those earnings that were repatriated under the Act, will be
      permanently reinvested. 

Note
      15 - Employee Benefit Plans  

The
      Company maintains several defined contribution plans that cover domestic and
      foreign employees that meet certain eligibility requirements related to age
      and
      period of service with the Company. The plan in which each employee is eligible
      to participate depends upon the subsidiary for which the employee works. All
      plans have a salary deferral feature that enables employees to contribute up
      to
      a certain percentage of their earnings, subject to governmental regulations.
      Many of the foreign plans require the Company to match employees  contributions
      in cash. The Company s domestic 401(k) plan has historically been voluntarily
      matched, typically with ICO Common Stock. For Company matching contributions
      in
      the Company s 401(k) plan made prior to calendar 2006, domestic employees 
interests and earnings related thereto vest over five years of service. The
      Company s matching contributions in the Company s 401(k) plan made in calendar
      year 2006 will be mandatory and will vest immediately. Foreign employees 
interests in Company matching contributions are generally vested
      immediately. 

The
      Company maintains a defined benefit plan for employees of the Company s Dutch
      operating subsidiary. Participants contribute a portion of the cost associated
      with the benefit plan. The plan provides retirement benefits at the normal
      retirement age of 65. This plan is insured by a participating annuity contract
      with Aegon Levensverzekering N.V. ("Aegon"), located in The Hague, The
      Netherlands. The participating annuity contract guarantees the funding of the
      Company s future pension obligations for its defined benefit pension plan. In
      accordance with the contract, Aegon will pay all future obligations under the
      provisions of this plan, while the Company pays annual insurance premiums.
      Payment of the insurance premiums by the Company constitutes an unconditional
      and irrevocable transfer of the related pension obligation from the Company
      to
      Aegon. Aegon has a Standard and Poor s financial strength rating of AA. The
      premiums paid for the participating annuity contracts of $0.6 million, $0.3
      million and $0.6 million for fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and
      2004, respectively, are included in pension expense. 

The
      Company also maintains several termination plans, usually mandated by law,
      within certain of its foreign subsidiaries that provide a one time payment
      if a
      covered employee is terminated. 

The
      defined contribution plan expense for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005
      and 2004 was $1.0 million for each fiscal year. The defined benefit plan pension
      expense for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004   was
      $0.7
      million, $0.7 million and $0.5 million, respectively  . 

Note
      16 - Commitments and Contingencies  

The
      Company has entered into operating leases related to buildings, office space,
      machinery and equipment and office equipment that expire at various dates.
      Rental expense was approximately $2.1 million in 2006, $2.0 million in 2005,
      and
      $2.2 million in 2004 associated with these leases. Future minimum rental
      payments as of September 30, 2006 are due as follows: 

The
      Company has letters of credit outstanding in the United States of approximately
      $2.1 million and $1.6 million as of September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005,
      respectively, and foreign letters of credit outstanding of $2.6 million and
      $4.5
      million as of September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005,
      respectively. 

F-25 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Varco
      Indemnification Claims.   
      Between
      May 2003 and March 2004, approximately 30 claims for contractual indemnity
      were
      asserted against the Company by Varco International, Inc. (n/k/a National
      Oilwell Varco, Inc., hereinafter  NOV ) in connection with the September 2002
      sale of substantially all of the Company's oilfield services ("Oilfield
      Services") business to NOV. NOV s indemnity demands were based on its contention
      that the Company breached a number of representations and warranties in the
      purchase agreement dated July 2, 2002 pursuant to which the Company sold the
      Oilfield Services business to NOV (the  Purchase Agreement ) and that certain
      expenses or damages that NOV has incurred or may incur in the future constitute
      "excluded liabilities" as defined in the Purchase Agreement. NOV alleged that
      the expected loss range for its indemnity claims was between $16.4 million
      and
      $22.0 million. A portion of those indemnity demands (representing aggregate
      losses of approximately $0.4 million) related to product liability claims.
      The
      balance of the indemnity demands related to alleged historical contamination
      or
      alleged non-compliance with environmental rules at approximately 26 former
      Company properties located in both the United States and Canada.  

The
      Company s contractual indemnification obligation to NOV was subject to certain
      limitations, including the obligation of NOV to bear 50% of any losses
      relating to environmental matters in excess of the $1.0 million threshold,
      up to
      a maximum aggregate loss borne by NOV in respect of such environmental matters
      of $4.0 million (in addition to the $1.0 million threshold). At the time of
      the
      sale in September 2002, the Company had placed $5.0 million of the sale proceeds
      in escrow to be used to pay for indemnification obligations, should they arise.
      The $5.0 million in proceeds was included in the gain on the sale of the
      Oilfield Services business recognized in fiscal year 2002. In the third quarter
      of fiscal 2004 the Company deemed the $5.0 million receivable of the escrowed
      sales proceeds to be a doubtful collection, due to the continued inability
      of
      the parties to reach an agreement regarding the size of NOV s indemnifiable
      loss. The $5.0 million reserve, net of income taxes, was recorded in the
      Consolidated Statement of Operations as a component of loss from discontinued
      operations. 

On
      November 21, 2006, the Company entered into an agreement settling all of the
      pending indemnity claims asserted by NOV. In exchange for a complete release
      of
      claims and indemnity agreement, the Company agreed to a $7.5 million payment
      consisting of: a cash payment of approximately $1.1 million; release to NOV
      of
      the approximately $5.4 million currently held in escrow (consisting of the
      $5.0
      million of sales proceeds placed in escrow for potential indemnity obligations
      plus interest); and a $1.0 million note payable in one year. As a result of
      the
      settlement, the Company recognized a pre-tax charge through discontinued
      operations of $2.1 million ($1.4 million after taxes) during its fiscal fourth
      quarter ended September 30, 2006. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, the
      Company is absolved of and shall be indemnified for NOV s indemnity claims
      previously asserted, as well as specified future environmental liabilities
      relating to the properties transferred to NOV and its affiliates; however,
      except as set forth in the settlement agreement, the Company continues to be
      responsible for  excluded liabilities  as defined in the Purchase
      Agreement. 

Thibodaux
      Litigation   .
      Since
      September 2004, the Company has been a defendant in litigation pending in
      District Court in the Parish of Orleans, Louisiana (the  Thibodaux Lawsuit )
      filed by C.M. Thibodaux Company ( Thibodaux ). Other defendants in the case
      include Intracoastal Tubular Services, Inc. ( ITCO ), thirty different oil
      companies (the  Oil Company Defendants ), several insurance companies and four
      trucking companies. Thibodaux, the owner of industrial property located in
      Amelia, Louisiana that has historically been leased to tenants conducting
      oilfield services businesses, contends that the property has been contaminated
      with naturally occurring radioactive material ( NORM ). NORM is found naturally
      occurring in the earth, and when pipe is removed from the ground it is not
      uncommon for the corroded rust on the pipe to contain very small amounts of
      NORM. The Company s former Oilfield Services business leased a portion of the
      subject property from Thibodaux. Thibodaux contends that the subject property
      was contaminated with NORM generated during the servicing of oilfield equipment
      by the Company and other tenants, and further alleges that the Oil Company
      Defendants (customers of Thibodaux s tenants) and trucking companies (which
      delivered tubular goods and other oilfield equipment to the subject property)
      allowed or caused the uncontrolled dispersal of NORM on Thibodaux s property.
      Thibodaux seeks recovery from the Defendants for clean-up costs, diminution
      or
      complete loss of property values, and other damages. Discovery in the Thibodaux
      Lawsuit is ongoing, and the Company intends to assert a vigorous defense in
      this
      litigation. An adverse judgment against the Company in the lawsuit could
  have
      a
      material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of
      operations and/or cash flows. 

Environmental
      Remediation.   
      The
      Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as
      amended ( CERCLA ), also known as  Superfund,  and comparable state laws impose
      liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on
      certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release
      of a  hazardous substance  into the environment. These persons include the owner
      or operator of the disposal site or the site where  

F-26 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

the
      release occurred, and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal
      of
      the hazardous substances at the site where the release occurred. Under CERCLA,
      such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of
      cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the
      environment, for damages to natural resources, and for the costs of certain
      health studies, and it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other
      third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly
      caused by the release of hazardous substances into the environment. The Company,
      through acquisitions that it has made, is identified as one of many potentially
      responsible parties ( PRPs ) under CERCLA in four claims relating to the
      following sites: (i) the French Limited site northeast of Houston, Texas; (ii)
      the Sheridan Disposal Services site near Hempstead, Texas; (iii) the Combe
      Fill
      South Landfill site in Morris County, New Jersey; and (iv) the Malone Service
      Company (MSC) Superfund site in Texas City, Texas. 

Active
      remediation of the French Limited site was concluded in 1996. If the Company
      is
      required to contribute to the costs of additional remediation at that site,
      it
      is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company. With regard
      to
      the three remaining Superfund sites, the Company believes it remains responsible
      for only    de
      minimus   
      levels
      of wastes contributed to those sites, and that there are numerous other PRPs
      identified at each of these sites that contributed significantly larger volumes
      of wastes to the sites. The Company expects that its share of any allocated
      liability for cleanup of the Sheridan Disposal Services site, and the Combe
      Fill
      South Landfill site will not be significant, and based on the Company s current
      understanding of the remedial status of each of these sites, together with
      its
      relative position in comparison to the many other PRPs at those sites, the
      Company does not expect its future environmental liability with respect to
      those
      sites to have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial condition,
      results of operation, and/or cash flows. The Company has been involved in
      settlement discussions relating to the MSC site, and does not expect its
      liability with respect to this site to have a material adverse effect on the
      Company s financial condition. 

Tank
      Failure Claim   .
      In
      September 2003, the Company's U.K. subsidiary was served by one of its former
      customers in a lawsuit filed in the High Court of Justice, Queen's Bench
      Division, Salford Court Registry Division in the U.K.  The customer claims
      that above-ground oil storage tanks that it manufactured with colored resin
      purchased from the Company between 1997 and 2001 have failed or are
      expected to fail, and that such failure is the result of the unsatisfactory
      quality and/or unfitness for purpose of the Company's resin.  In pleadings
      filed with the Court the customer seeks recovery from the Company for the
      customer's costs incurred in replacing failed tanks, lost profits, pre-judgment
      interest, legal expenses, and other unspecified damages.  The customer is
      seeking recovery for 1,022 failed tanks as of November 30, 2005, and the
      customer s forensic accountants contend that the customer s replacement costs
      and other losses incurred to date by the customer relating to the failed tanks
      (excluding interest and legal expenses) are approximately $0.8 million. The
      Company denies that it is liable to the customer, and attributes the alleged
      defects to tank design flaws, inconsistent and uncontrolled manufacturing
      processes and procedures, insufficient recordkeeping, and failure to perform
      routine quality control testing, none of which are the responsibility of the
      Company.  Furthermore, the Company s forensic accountants believe that the
      customer s forensic accountants  estimate of the customer s costs associated
      with failed tanks incurred to date is significantly inflated. It is difficult
      to
      estimate the number of additional tanks manufactured with the resin at issue
      that might prematurely fail and for which the customer may seek recovery, based
      in part on the customer's failure to produce production records and proper
      evidence of material traceability, and the wide variation in failure rates
      by
      tank model as reported by the customer. The failure patterns (including the
      customer's acknowledgement that certain tank models have extremely high failure
      rates, while other models manufactured during the same time frame with the
      same
      resin have negligible failure rates) strongly support the Company's opinion
      that
      the failures are attributed to design defects. 

In
      the
      event that the Company's colored resin is found to have caused or contributed
      to
      the failures, the Company shall be entitled to indemnity for fifty percent
      (50%)
      of its damages from the supplier of the base resin used by the Company to
      manufacture the colored resin. The Company will also be entitled to partial
      indemnity from its insurance carriers in the event that it is found to have
      any
      liability in this case. Both of the Company s insurers have reimbursed a portion
      of the Company s defense costs, and additional defense cost reimbursements are
      forthcoming. The case has been scheduled for trial commencing in February 2007.
      The Company believes that the customer's claims are without merit, and will
      continue to vigorously defend its position in this case.  However, if
      an adverse judgment is obtained against the Company which is ultimately
      determined not to be covered by insurance it may have a material adverse effect
      on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and/or cash
      flows. 

Other
      Legal Proceedings.   
      The
      Company is also named as a defendant in certain other lawsuits arising in the
      ordinary course of business. The outcome of these lawsuits cannot be predicted
      with certainty, but the Company does not believe they will have a material
      adverse effect on the Company s financial condition, results of operations, or
      cash flows. 

F-27 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Note
      17 - Discontinued Operations  

On
      September 6, 2002, the Company completed the sale of substantially all of its
      Oilfield Services business to NOV. On July 31, 2003, the Company sold its
      remaining Oilfield Services business to Permian Enterprises, Ltd. The Oilfield
      Services results of operations are presented as discontinued operations, net
      of
      income taxes, in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Legal fees or other
      expenses incurred related to discontinued operations are expensed as incurred
      to
      discontinued operations. 

Between
      May 2003 and March 2004, NOV asserted approximately 30 claims for contractual
      indemnity ranging from $16.4 million to $22.0 million against the Company in
      connection with the September 2002 sale of substantially all of the Company's
      Oilfield Services business. On November 21, 2006, the Company entered into
      an
      agreement settling all of the pending indemnity claims asserted by NOV for
      $7.5
      million in exchange for a complete release of claims and indemnity agreement.
      The $7.5 million payment consisted of: a cash payment of approximately $1.1
      million; release to NOV of the approximately $5.4 million currently held in
      escrow; and a $1.0 million note payable in one year. The funds in escrow were
      set aside on September 6, 2002, and consist of $5.0 million of the sale proceeds
      plus interest. The escrowed funds were deemed to be a doubtful collection and
      a
      reserve recorded against the $5.0 million during fiscal year 2004 through
      discontinued operations. As a result of the settlement, the Company recorded
      a
      pre-tax charge through discontinued operations of $2.1 million ($1.4 million
      after taxes) during its fiscal fourth quarter ended September 30, 2006. See
      Note
      16 -  Commitments and Contingencies  for further discussion of the NOV
      settlement.     The
      loss
      from discontinued operations during fiscal year 2005 related to legal fees
      and
      other expenses incurred by the Company associated with discontinued
      operations. 

Loss
      on
      disposition of the Oilfield Services business was $1.4 million, $0 and $3.3
      million for fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. 

Note
      18 - Supplemental Cash Flow Information  

During
      fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company issued to employees $0.3 million,
      $0.2 million, and $0.1 million worth of Common Stock, respectively, in
      connection with the Company s domestic 401(k) defined contribution plan. At
      September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company had accrued $0.5 million, $0.3
      million, and $0.3 million, respectively, in connection with the Company s
      domestic 401(k) defined contribution plan. See Note 15 -  Employee Benefit
      Plans.  

As
      discussed in Note 17 -  Discontinued Operations,  in connection with the
      settlement agreement with NOV, the Company and NOV agreed to a $1.0 million
      note
      payable due in November 2007 as part of the $7.5 million
      settlement. 

Note
      19 - Operations Information  

The
      following table provides revenue by point of origin and long-lived assets by
      location as of and for years ended September 30: 

F-28 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Foreign
      revenue is based on the country in which the legal subsidiary is domiciled.
      Long-lived assets include net property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other
      long-term assets (excluding long-term deferred tax assets). 

Note
      20 - Segment Information  

The
      Company's management structure and reportable segments are organized into five
      business segments defined as ICO Polymers North America, ICO Brazil, Bayshore
      Industrial, ICO Europe and ICO Courtenay - Australasia. This organization is
      consistent with the way information is reviewed and decisions are made by
      executive management. 

ICO
      Polymers North America, ICO Brazil, ICO Europe and ICO Courtenay - Australasia
      primarily produce competitively priced engineered polymer powders for the
      rotational molding industry as well as other specialty markets for powdered
      polymers, including masterbatch and concentrate producers, users of
      polymer-based metal coatings, and non-woven textile markets. 

Additionally,
      these segments provide specialty size reduction services on a tolling basis
      ( tolling  refers to processing customer owned material for a service fee). The
      Bayshore Industrial segment designs and produces proprietary concentrates,
      masterbatches and specialty compounds, primarily for the plastic film industry,
      in North America and in selected export markets. The Company s European segment
      includes operations in France, Holland, Italy, Sweden (closed during 2004)
      and
      UK.  The Company s Australasia segment includes operations in Australia,
      Malaysia and New Zealand.  The accounting policies of each business segment
      are consistent with those described in the  Summary of Significant Accounting
      Policies  in Note 1. 

F-29 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

(a)
      Impairment, restructuring and other costs are included in operating income
      (loss). 

      (b)
      Consists of unallocated Corporate assets. 

      (c)
      Includes goodwill of $4.1 million and $4.3 million for ICO Courtenay -
      Australasia as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively and $4.5 million
      for
      Bayshore Industrial as of September 30, 2006 and 2005. 

A
      reconciliation of total reportable segment operating income to income from
      continuing operations before income taxes is as follows: 

F-30 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Note
      21 - Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)  

The
      following table presents selected financial information for each quarter in
      the
      fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and September 30, 2005,
      respectively. 

F-31 

Table
          of Contents  

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The
      sum
      of the quarterly earnings per share may not equal the annual earnings per share
      because each quarter s per share is individually calculated using a different
      number of weighted average shares outstanding. 

See
      Note
      2  Restatement of Previously Reported Earnings per Share  for further discussion
      of the restatement of previously reported earnings per share. 

F-32 

Table
          of Contents  

S CHEDULE
      I CONDENSED FINANCIAL
      INFORMATION  

       ICO,
      Inc. (Parent Company Only)  

       Condensed
      Balance Sheets  

F-33 

Table
          of Contents  

ICO,
      Inc. (Parent Company Only)  

       Condensed
      Statement of Operations  

See
      accompanying note to condensed financial statements. 

F-34 

Table
          of Contents  

ICO,
      Inc. (Parent Company Only)  

       Condensed
      Statement of Cash Flows  

See
      accompanying note to condensed financial statements. 

F-35 

Table
          of Contents  

ICO,
      Inc. (Parent Company Only)  

       Note
      to Condensed Financial Statements  

(1)
      Basis of Presentation  

ICO,
      Inc.
      (the  Company ) is a holding company that conducts substantially all of its
      business operations through its subsidiaries. Under the terms of agreements
      governing indebtedness of certain subsidiaries of the Company, such subsidiaries
      are restricted from making dividend payments, loans or advances to the Company.
      These restrictions resulted in restricted net assets (as defined in Rule
      4-03(e)(3) of Regulation S-X) of the Company s subsidiaries exceeding 25% of the
      consolidated net assets of the Company and its subsidiaries. Accordingly, these
      condensed financial statements have been presented on a  parent company only 
basis. Under a parent company only presentation, the Company s investment in its
      consolidated subsidiaries are presented under the equity method of
      accounting. 

The
      financial statements of ICO, Inc. (Parent Company Only) summarize the results
      of
      operations for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004. The ICO,
      Inc.
      (Parent Company Only) financial statements should be read in conjunction with
      the ICO, Inc. consolidated financial statements. 

F-36 

Table
          of Contents  

ICO,
      Inc.  

        S chedule
      II - Valuation and Qualifying
      Accounts  

       (in
      thousands)  

F-37 

<EX-10.11>
 2
 exhibit10-11.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.11 - INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT FORM

Exhibit 10.11 - Incentive Stock Option Agreement form

Exhibit
      10.11 

       Summary
      Information  

      Employee:
         Name  

      Location:
      xx 

      Date
      of
      Grant: ___, 20__ 

      ESOP:
      19__ 

      Exercise
      Price: $x.xx/Share 

      Expiration:
      earlier of xxx or 3 months post termination 

      Total
      No.
      Shares subject to grant: xxx 

      Vesting:
      xxx Shares vest on ____, 20__  

        xxx
      Shares vest on ____, 20__ 

      Grant
      Type: NQSO 

NONSTATUTORY
      STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT  

This
      AGREEMENT is made and effective this x day of xxx, 20__ (the  Date of Grant ),
      between ICO, Inc., a Texas corporation (the  Company ), and Name ( Employee ),
      an employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries. 

To
      carry
      out the purposes of ICO, Inc. s 19XX STOCK OPTION PLAN, (the  Plan ), by
      affording Employee the opportunity to purchase shares of the common stock of
      the
      Company ( Shares ), and in consideration of the mutual agreements and other
      matters set forth herein and in the Plan, the Company and Employee hereby agree
      as follows: 

1.       Grant
      of Option     .   
      The
      Company hereby irrevocably grants to Employee the right to purchase all or
      any
      part of an aggregate of xxx Shares (such right to purchase xxx Shares at the
      purchase price set forth in paragraph 2 below being referred to herein as this
       Option ), on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan, as such
      Plan may be amended or supplemented from time to time, and which Plan is
      incorporated herein by reference as a part of this Agreement. This Option is
         not   
      intended
      to constitute an incentive stock option ( ISO ), within the meaning of Section
      422(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
 Code ). 

2.       Purchase
      Price     .   
      The
      purchase price of the Shares that may be purchased by Employee pursuant to
      the
      exercise of this Option shall be $xxx per Share, which has been determined
      to be
      not less than the fair market value of the Shares on the Date of Grant of this
      Option. For the purpose of this Agreement, the  fair market value  of the Shares
      shall be determined in accordance with the definition of  fair market value 
contained in the Plan. 

3.       Exercise
      of Option     .   
      Subject
      to the earlier expiration of this Option as set forth below, this Option may
      be
      exercised in full or part, by written notice to the Company at its principal
      executive office addressed to the attention of its General Counsel, at any
      time
      and from time to time after the Date of Grant hereof, but, except as otherwise
      provided below, this Option shall not be exercisable for more than a percentage
      of the aggregate number of Shares offered by this Option determined by the
      number of full years from the Date of Grant to the date of such exercise, in
      accordance with the following vesting schedule: 

Page
          1 of
          3 

Number
                of Full Years    

                  Following
                the Date of Grant    

Percentage
                of Shares   

                  That
                May Be Purchased   

Less
                than 1 year (vest on Date of Grant) 

xx%
                (xxx Shares) 

1
                year (vest on 1   st   
                anniversary of Date of Grant) 

xx%
                (xxx Shares) 

2
                years (vest on 2   nd   
                anniversary of Date of Grant) 

xx%
                (xxx Shares) 

(or
                include alternative language if not vesting on 1   st  

                or
                2   nd   
                anniversary of Date of Grant)    

xx%
                (xxx Shares) 

Furthermore,
      in order to exercise this Option or any portion thereof, Employee must be an
      employee of the Company or of a subsidiary of the Company at all times during
      the period beginning on the Date of Grant and ending on the day three months
      before the date of exercise. This Option shall not be exercisable in any event
      after the expiration of the earlier of: (a) ten (10) years from the Date of
      Grant hereof, or (b) the first business day following expiration of the three
      month period after the date when Employee ceases to be an employee of the
      Company or any subsidiary of the Company. Furthermore, any options that have
      not
      vested prior to the date of Employee s termination of employment shall not be
      exercisable. The purchase price of shares as to which this Option is exercised
      shall be paid as provided under the provisions of the Plan. 

4.       Withholding
      of Tax     .   
      To the
      extent that the exercise of this Option or the disposition of Shares acquired
      by
      exercise of this Option results in compensation income or wages to Employee
      for
      federal, state, or local tax purposes, Employee shall deliver to the Company
      at
      the time of such exercise or disposition such amount of money or Shares as
      the
      Company may require to meet its obligations under applicable tax laws or
      regulations, and, if Employee fails to do so, the Company is authorized to
      withhold from any cash or Share remuneration then or thereafter payable to
      Employee any tax required to be withheld by reason of such resulting
      compensation income. Upon an exercise of this Option, the Company is further
      authorized in its discretion to satisfy any such withholding requirements out
      of
      any cash or Shares distributable to Employee upon such exercise. 

5.       Binding
      Effect     .   
      This
      Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successors
      to
      the Company and all persons lawfully claiming under Employee. In the event
      of
      conflict between any of the provisions in this Agreement and provisions in
      the
      Plan, the provisions of the Plan will govern. 

6.       Dispute
      Resolution     .   
      This
      Agreement and the Option granted hereunder, shall be governed by, and construed
      in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas, without regard to its
      principles of conflicts of law. Any and all controversies, claims and
      differences arising out of or relating to the Option granted under this
      Agreement which cannot be settled by good faith negotiation between the parties
      will be finally settled by binding arbitration brought within three (3) months
      of the termination of the Option, with the date of termination to be governed
      by
      the provisions of the Plan and this Agreement. The binding arbitration will
      be
      conducted in accordance with the then existing rules of the American Arbitration
      Association ( AAA ), by one arbitrator. In the event of any conflict between
      such rules and this paragraph, the provisions of this paragraph shall govern.
      Upon the written demand of either party, the parties shall appoint a single
      arbitrator acceptable to both parties. Arbitration proceedings shall be held
      in
      Houston, 

Page
          2 of
          3 

Texas.
      The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties
      hereto, not subject to appeal, and shall deal with the questions of interest,
      cost of the arbitration, and all matters relevant thereto. Judgment upon the
      award or decision rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having
      jurisdiction thereof, or application may be made to such court for a judicial
      recognition of the award or any order of enforcement thereof as the case may
      be. 

IN
      WITNESS WHEREOF,   
      the
      Company has caused this Agreement to be duly executed by its officer thereunto
      duly authorized, and Employee has executed this Agreement, to be effective
      as of
      the Date of Grant set forth above. 

ICO,
                INC.  

By: 

Printed
                Name: 

Title: 

EMPLOYEE  

xxx 

Page
      3 of
      3 

</EX-10.11>

<EX-10.15>
 3
 exhibit10-15.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.15 - FIRST AMENDMENT EMP AGMT - KNAPP

Exhibit 10.15 - First Amendment Emp Agmt - Knapp

Exhibit
      10.1  5 

FIRST
      AMENDMENT TO  

       EMPLOYMENT
      AGREEMENT  

This
      First Amendment to Employment Agreement ( First Amendment ) is entered into by
      and between ICO, Inc. ( Company ) and A. John Knapp, Jr. ( Employee ), to be
      effective as of August 30, 2006 (the  Effective Date ). 

WHEREAS  ,  
      Employee
      entered into an Employment Agreement with Company, effective October 1, 2005
      (the  Employment Agreement ), and Employee and Company desire to amend the
      Employment Agreement as set forth herein. 

NOW,
      THEREFORE  ,  
      for and
      in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants, and obligations contained
      herein, Company and Employee agree as follows: 

1.     All
      capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the
      meaning ascribed to such terms in the Employment Agreement. Except as amended
      hereby, all provisions in the Employment Agreement remain in full force and
      effect. 

2.     The
      following provision is hereby inserted in Article 2 of the Agreement, as Section
      2.7:  

2.7     In
      addition to the Base Salary, stock options, and other benefits afforded to
      Employee under this Agreement, the Employee shall be eligible, upon the
      conclusion of the fiscal year ending September 30, 2006 ( FY 2006 ) and the
      fiscal year ending September 30, 2007 ( FY 2007 ), to receive a bonus (an
 Incentive Bonus ), pursuant to an Incentive Bonus structure and formula that
      has been established and pre-approved by the Board. The Incentive Bonus earned
      for FY 2006 and/or FY 2007, if any, shall be paid in lump sum cash (subject
      to
      all legally required withholdings) on or before the last day of the first
      quarter of the following fiscal year. Any Incentive Bonus will be considered
      earned only if the Employee is employed on the October 1   st   
      immediately following the fiscal year on which the bonus is calculated.

(The
      sum
      of annual cash incentive bonuses for FY 2006 paid to Company s other five
      Executive Leadership Team [ ELT ] members, calculated according to the incentive
      plan matrices applicable to each of them, as previously approved by the
      Compensation Committee)  

divided
      by:  

(The
      sum
      of the FY 2006 base salaries of Company s other five ELT members)

Page
          1 of
          2 

multiplied
      by:    

(Employee s
      FY 2006 Base Salary of $96,000). 

(b) 

The
                formula for calculating the Incentive Bonus for FY 2007 (the  FY 2007
                Incentive Bonus ) shall be similar to the formula for calculating the FY
                2006 Incentive Bonus. The FY 2007 base salaries and incentive plan
                matrices applicable to the other ELT members shall be approved by
                the
                Compensation Committee in its sole discretion. Employee s FY 2007
                Incentive Bonus shall be calculated using Employee s FY 2007 Base
                Salary. 

(c) 

In
                addition to Employee, Company s ELT consists of Company s Chief Financial
                Officer and the four Presidents of Company s four major business units
                (ICO Europe, Bayshore Industrial, ICO Courtenay - Australasia, and
                ICO
                Polymers North America divisions). In the event of any changes in
                the ELT
                composition during a fiscal year for which an Incentive Bonus is
                calculated, the Compensation Committee shall have sole discretion
                regarding whether and to what extent the bonus and base salary of
                any new
                or departing ELT member is included in the formula for calculating
                an
                Incentive Bonus payable to Employee.

3.     Effective
      October 1, 2006, Employee s Base Salary (as defined in Section 2.1 of the
      Agreement) is increased to Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($200,000) per
      annum. 

IN
      WITNESS WHEREOF  ,
      Company
      and Employee have duly executed this Agreement in multiple originals to be
      effective on the Effective Date. 

ICO,
                Inc.  

/s/
                Gregory T. Barmore  

Gregory
                T. Barmore 

                Chairman
                of the Board of Directors 

Date: 

October
                3, 2006 

Employee 

/s/
                A. John Knapp, Jr.  

A.
                John Knapp, Jr. 

Date: 

October
                3, 2006 

Page
      2 of
      2 

</EX-10.15>

<EX-21.1>
 4
 exhibit21-1.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.1 - SUBSIDIARIES

Exhibit 21.1 - Subsidiaries

Exhibit
      21.1 

ICO,
      Inc. - Subsidiaries   

Subsidiary  

State
                of Incorporation or Organization  

Additional
                Names Under Which   

                 Entities
                do Business  

Bayshore
                Industrial, L.P. 

Texas,
                U.S.A. 

Bayshore
                Industrial 

Courtenay
                Polymers Pty Ltd. 

Australia 

Courtenay
                Polymers 

ICO
                (UK) Limited 

U.K. 

ICO
                UK; ICO Polymers 

ICO
                Europe B.V.    

The
                Netherlands 

ICO
                Global Services, Inc. 

Delaware,
                U.S.A. 

ICO
                Holdings Australia Pty Limited 

Australia 

ICO
                Holdings New Zealand Limited 

New
                Zealand 

ICO
                Holland B.V. 

The
                Netherlands 

ICO
                Holland; ICO Polymers; Wedco 

ICO
                P O, Inc. 

Delaware,
                U.S.A. 

ICO
                Polymers do Brasil Ltda. 

Brazil 

ICO
                Polymers; ICO Polymers do Brasil 

ICO
                Polymers France S.A.S. 

France 

ICO
                Polymers France 

ICO
                Polymers Italy S.r.l. 

Italy 

ICO
                Polymers Italy 

ICO
                Polymers North America, Inc. 

New
                Jersey, U.S.A. 

ICO
                Polymers; Wedco 

ICO
                Technology, Inc. 

Delaware,
                U.S.A. 

J.R.
                Courtenay (N.Z.) Limited 

New
                Zealand 

JR
                Courtenay 

J.R.
                Courtenay Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Soreco
                S.A.S. 

France 

Soreco 

Wedco
                Technology, Inc. 

New
                Jersey, U.S.A. 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 exhibit23-1.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1 - CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

Exhibit 23.1 - Consent of Independent Accountants

Exhibit
      23.1 

CONSENT
      OF INDEEPENDENT REGISTERED ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We
      hereby
      consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on
      Form
      S-8 (File Nos. 033-68638, 033-85628, 033-63641, 033-20205, 333-53443, 333-93351,
      333-100995 and 333-88094) of ICO, Inc. of our report dated December 13, 2006
      relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedules,
      management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
      reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
      which appears in this Form 10-K. 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 exhibit31-1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1 - CEO CERTIFICATION 7241

Exhibit 31.1 - CEO Certification 7241

Exhibit
      31.1 

CERTIFICATION

I,
      A.
      John Knapp, Jr., certify that:  

1.     I
      have
      reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of ICO, Inc. (the "Company") for the
      fiscal year ended September 30, 2006;  

2.     Based
      on
      my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
      made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made,
      not
      misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.     Based
      on
      my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
      in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
      results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and for, the periods
      presented in this report;  

4.     The
      Company's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules
      13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)  )  
      and
      internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Company and have:  

a)     designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
      and
      procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
      information relating to the Company, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
      is
      made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period
      in which this annual report is being prepared;  

b)     designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
      over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
      reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
      preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
      generally accepted accounting principles;  

c)     evaluated
      the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
      disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
      this
      report based on such evaluation; and  

d  )     disclosed
      in this report any change in the Company s internal control over financial
      reporting that occurred during the Company s fourth fiscal quarter that has
      materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
      internal control over financial reporting  ;
      and 

5.     The
      Company's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Company's
      auditors and the audit committee of the Company's board of directors:

a)     all
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the Company's ability to record, process, summarize and report
      financial information; and  

b)     any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the Company's internal control over financial
      reporting.  

/s/
                A. John Knapp, Jr. 

Name: 

A.
                John Knapp, Jr. 

Title: 

Chief
                Executive Officer 

Date: 

December
                13, 2006 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 exhibit31-2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2 - CFO CERTIFICATION 7241

Exhibit 31.2 - CFO Certification 7241

Exhibit
      31.2 

CERTIFICATION

I,
      Jon C.
      Biro, certify that:  

1.     I
      have
      reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of ICO, Inc. (the "Company") for the
      fiscal year ended September 30, 2006;  

2.     Based
      on
      my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
      made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made,
      not
      misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.     Based
      on
      my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
      in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
      results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and for, the periods
      presented in this report;  

4.     The
      Company's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules
      13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)  )  
      and
      internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Company and have:  

a)     designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
      and
      procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
      information relating to the Company, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
      is
      made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period
      in which this annual report is being prepared;  

b)     designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
      over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
      reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
      preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
      generally accepted accounting principles;  

c)     evaluated
      the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
      disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
      this
      report based on such evaluation; and  

d  )     disclosed
      in this report any change in the Company s internal control over financial
      reporting that occurred during the Company s fourth fiscal quarter that has
      materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
      internal control over financial reporting  ;
      and 

5.     The
      Company's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Company's
      auditors and the audit committee of the Company's board of directors:

a)     all
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the Company's ability to record, process, summarize and report
      financial information; and  

b)     any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the Company's internal control over financial
      reporting.  

/s/
                Jon C. Biro 

Name: 

Jon
                C. Biro 

Title: 

Chief
                Financial Officer 

Date: 

December
                13, 2006 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 exhibit32-1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1 - CEO CERTIFICATION 1350

Exhibit 32.1 - CEO Certification 1350

Exhibit
      32.1 

CERTIFICATION
      OF 

      CHIEF
      EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF ICO, INC. 

      PURSUANT
      TO 18 U.S.C.   1350 

In
      connection with the accompanying annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
      year
      ended September 30, 2006 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
      on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, A. John Knapp, Jr., the Chief Executive
      Officer of ICO, Inc. (the  Company ), hereby certify, to my knowledge,
      that: 

1.     The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

2.     The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
      the financial condition and results of operations of the Company in respect
      of
      those items required to be described or presented in such Report under Section
      13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

/s/
                A. John Knapp, Jr. 

Name: 

A.
                John Knapp, Jr. 

Chief
                Executive Officer 

Date: 

December
                13, 2006 

This
      certification is furnished solely pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
      Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed to be a part of the Report or  filed  for
      any purpose whatsoever. 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 exhibit32-2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2 - CFO CERTIFICATION 1350

Exhibit 32.2 - CFO Certification 1350

Exhibit
      32.2 

CERTIFICATION
      OF 

      CHIEF
      FINANCIAL OFFICER OF ICO, INC.  

      PURSUANT
      TO 18 U.S.C.   1350 

In
      connection with the accompanying annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
      year
      ended September 30, 2006 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
      on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Jon C. Biro, the Chief Financial Officer
      of ICO, Inc. (the  Company ), hereby certify, to my knowledge,
      that: 

1.     The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

2.     The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
      the financial condition and results of operations of the Company in respect
      of
      those items required to be described or presented in such Report under Section
      13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

/s/
                Jon C. Biro 

Name: 

Jon
                C. Biro 

Chief
                Financial Officer 

Date: 

December
                13, 2006 

This
      certification is furnished solely pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
      Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed to be a part of the Report or  filed  for
      any purpose whatsoever. 

</EX-32.2>

