<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061206_10-K_edgar_data_47518_0000950137-06-013297_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1264842</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>503563</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>19146</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>457243</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>66</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>12</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950137-06-013297.hdr.sgml : 20061206
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061206160656
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950137-06-013297
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061206
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061206

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000047518
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MISCELLANEOUS FURNITURE & FIXTURES [2590]
		IRS NUMBER:				351160484
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			IN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06651
		FILM NUMBER:		061260253

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		700 STATE ROUTE 46 E
		CITY:			BATESVILLE
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			47006-8835
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8129347000

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 PXKe0ZZ4QX5dDAb7ayPmEbJjMeweChuOb6eEbocJqZdm3IQlaj4omcMqmA3wUzaG
 12F/hGo09I9nfirePspqSw==

 0000950137-06-013297.txt : 20061206

10-K
 1
 c10438e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (812) 934-7000 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 

Common Stock, without par value 

New York Stock Exchange  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act. 

Yes          No    

If
this report is an annual or transition report, indicate by check mark
if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

Yes
         No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or   15(d)   of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 

Yes          No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this   Form 10-K  .     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). 

Large accelerated filer          Accelerated filer         Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act). 

Yes          No    

State the aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant. 

Common Stock, without par value   $3,123,832,700 as of March 31, 2006

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant s classes of common stock,
as of the latest practicable date. 

Common Stock, without par value   61,440,708 as of November 17, 2006.

Documents incorporated by reference. 

Portions
of the Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders   Part III.

HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC. 
Annual Report on Form 10-K 
September 30, 2006 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page  

PART I   

Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking Statements

3 

Item 1.

Business

3 

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

16 

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

22 

Item 2.

Properties

23 

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

23 

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

27 

PART II   

Item 5.

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

28 

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

30 

Item 7.

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations

31 

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

69 

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

71 

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure

120 

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

120 

Item 9B.

Other Information

121 

PART III   

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

122 

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

122 

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters

122 

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

122 

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

122 

PART IV   

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

123 

SIGNATURES

131 

Corporate Governance Standards    
     Subsidiaries    
     Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
     Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 906    
     Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 906    
     Charter of Audit Committee    
     Charter of Finance Committee    
     Charter of Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee    
     Charter of Compensation and Management Development Committee    
     Position Specification for Member of Board of Directors    

2 

Table of Contents   

PART I 

DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding our future plans,
objectives, beliefs, expectations, representations and projections. We have tried, whenever
possible, to identify these forward-looking statements by using words such as, but not limited to,
 intend,   anticipate,   believe,   plan,   encourage,   expect,   may,   goal,   become, 
 pursue,   estimate,   strategy,   will,   projection,   forecast,   continue,   accelerate, 
 promise,   increase,   higher,   lower,   reduce,   improve,   expand,   progress,   potential  or
the negative of those terms or other variations of them or by comparable terminology. The absence
of such terms, however, does not mean that the statement is not forward-looking.

It is important to note that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance,
and our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in any forward-looking
statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from forward-looking statements
include but are not limited to the factors discussed under the heading  Risk Factors  in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking
statements.

Item 1. BUSINESS 

HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC. 

General 

Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. was incorporated on August 7, 1969 in the State of Indiana and is
headquartered in Batesville, Indiana. Hillenbrand is a public holding company for its two major
operating businesses serving the health care and funeral services industries in the United States
and abroad.

Hill-Rom is a leading worldwide manufacturer and provider of medical technologies and related
services for the health care industry, including patient support systems, non-invasive therapeutic
products for a variety of acute and chronic medical conditions, medical equipment rentals, and
workflow information technology solutions. Hill-Rom s comprehensive product and service offerings
are used by health care providers across the health care continuum in hospitals, extended care
facilities and home care settings, to enhance the safety and quality of patient care.

Batesville Casket Company is a leader in the North American death care industry through the sale of
funeral service products, including burial caskets, cremation caskets, containers and urns,
selection room display fixturing, other personalization and memorialization products.

Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms  Hillenbrand,  the  Company,   we,   our  or  us 
refer to Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and one or all of its consolidated subsidiaries, as the
context requires, and the terms  Hill-Rom Company  or  Hill-Rom ,  Batesville Casket Company  or
 Batesville  and derivations thereof refer to one or more of the subsidiary companies of
Hillenbrand that comprise those businesses.

Business Segment Information 

Net revenues, segment profitability, identifiable assets and other measures of segment reporting
for each reporting segment are set forth in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which
statements are included herein under Item 8.

3 

Table of Contents   

2006 Fiscal Year Segments.  During fiscal 2006, our operating structure contained the
following reporting segments:

Hill-Rom North America 

Hill-Rom International 

Hill-Rom Home Care and Surgical Accessories 

Batesville Casket 

We also break out certain functional costs and eliminations to aid in the reconciliation of segment
information to consolidated Hillenbrand financial information. We also break out certain
continuing public entity corporate-related costs separately to improve readability and
understanding.

2007 Fiscal Year Segments.  Based on organizational changes made effective October 1, 2006,
designed primarily to align Hill-Rom s lines of business with the acuity settings they serve, our
operating structure is expected to contain the following reporting segments:

Hill-Rom North America Acute Care 

Hill-Rom North America Post-Acute Care 

Hill-Rom International and Surgical 

Batesville Casket 

We will continue to report segment information consistent with the prior year reporting structure
in this Form 10-K. We anticipate reporting under the new structure in early 2007, and at that time
we intend to revise the reporting for prior periods to the new structure to the extent practicable
to do so.

MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES AND RELATED SERVICES 

Hill-Rom is a leading worldwide manufacturer and provider of medical technologies and related
services for the health care industry, including patient support systems, non-invasive therapeutic
products for a variety of acute and chronic medical conditions, medical equipment rentals, and
workflow information technology solutions. Hill-Rom s comprehensive product and service offerings
are used by health care providers across the health care continuum in hospitals, extended care
facilities and home care settings, to enhance the safety and quality of patient care.

Products and Services 

Patient Support Systems.  Hill-Rom s innovative patient support systems include a variety
of electrically adjustable and manual bed systems and integrated and non-integrated therapeutic
surfaces for use in high, mid and low acuity settings. Bed systems are one of the most visible and
important medical devices in health care and play a significant role in improving patient outcomes
and caregiver safety. Improved outcomes are frequently enabled by the interoperability among bed
frames, surfaces and clinical information technologies. Specifically, Hill-Rom s advanced patient
support systems can provide patient data reporting (e.g., weight and therapy statistics), real time
caregiver decision support, patient safety alarms and caregiver alerts concerning such things as
bed exit, bed height, patient positioning, wound healing and prevention, pulmonary treatment, point
of care controls, and patient turn assist and upright positioning. These features and functions,
when combined with caregiver
training and treatment protocols, have been demonstrated to reduce a number of the top adverse
events associated with patient stays, including bedsores (or pressure ulcers),
ventilator-associated pneumonia, patient falls, deep vein thrombosis and patient entrapments.

4 

Table of Contents   

Hill-Rom s patient support systems include the following:

Acuity Settings  
       
      North America  
       
      International  
       
      Selected Features/Options  

Critical/Intensive Care Settings 

TotalCare 

TotalCare , 
TotalCare  with 
Duo  II

Key features include
enhanced patient
positioning,
point-of-care siderail
controls, in-bed scale,
powered transport, real
time alerts and
reporting data and full
chair positioning with
egress. 

TotalCare SpO2RT 

TotalCare SpO2RT 

Same as TotalCare , plus
patient turn assist
functionality and
pulmonary therapies
including continuous
lateral rotation,
percussion and
vibration. 

Medical/Surgical Settings 

VersaCare , 
CareAssist , 
Century Plus 

AvantGuard , 
Evolution , 
BasicCare , 
Dynamis , 
VersaCare , 
CareAssist  ES, 
Century Plus 

Key features include low
bed height, patient
position monitor for
patient bed exit,
enhanced patient
positioning,
point-of-care controls,
in-bed scale, powered
transport, low chair
position and real time
alerts and reporting
data. 

Emergency Department/Transport 

TranStar  
Procedural, 
TranStar  Trauma, 
TranStar  Surgical, 
TranStar  OB/GYN, 
TranStar  Electric

TranStar  
Procedural, 
TranStar  Trauma

Key features include low
height, one step
tuck-away siderails,
ergonomic push handles,
5 th  wheel
mobility, foot controls,
and dual action brakes. 

Labor and Delivery 

Affinity  III

Affinity  III

Key features include
removable foot section,
easy to use foot and
calf supports, seat
inflate and deflate, CPR
release, point-of-care
siderail controls, and
battery back-up. 

Bariatric 

TotalCare  
Bariatric, 
Excel Care 

TotalCare  
Bariatric, 
Excel Care 

Key features include 500
pound capacity, wider
width, low airloss
surface, powered
transport, turn assist
positioning, pulmonary
therapies including
continuous lateral
rotation, percussion and
vibration. 

Extended Care Settings 

Resident  LTC bed

Gerialit 

Key features include
easy to use electric
high/low controls,
half-length tuck-away
siderails, automatic
contour, footend control
lockouts, floor brakes,
convenient to use
patient and caregiver
controls 

5 

Table of Contents   

Other Hill-Rom  patient support systems include bedside cabinets, adjustable-height overbed
tables, mattresses, communications products and patient room furniture. Additionally, surgical
table accessories, such as the FlexFrame  device,
which converts a standard operating room table into a surgical table
for spine procedures, are available from our Allen Medical business.
Architectural products include headwalls and power columns, such as the intensive care
architectural arm platform called the Latitude    system ,  which enable medical gases,
communication accessories and electrical services to be distributed in patient rooms.

Hill-Rom sells these products primarily to acute and extended care health care facilities worldwide
through both a direct sales force and distributors. Approximately 54 percent of Hill-Rom s
revenues are derived from sales of patient support systems.

Non-Invasive Therapeutic Products.  Hill-Rom rents and sells non-invasive therapeutic
products and surfaces for a variety of acute and chronic medical conditions, including pulmonary,
wound, circulatory and bariatric conditions, primarily to acute, extended and home care customers.
Such non-invasive therapeutic products and surfaces include the following:

Therapy Product and  

Surfaces Uses/Features  
       
      Acute Care  
       
      Extended Care  
       
      Home Care  
       
      International  

Products used in the
treatment of advanced
pressure sores, burns,
flaps, grafts and
intractable pain 

Clinitron  Rite 
Hite  Air Fluidized 
Therapy System

Clinitron  Rite 
Hite  Air Fluidized 
Therapy System

Clinitron At Home  
Air Fluidized 
Therapy System

Clinitron  Air 
Fluidized Therapy 
System 

Products used
primarily for at risk
wound prevention and
early treatment
through advanced
pressure relief 

FlexiCair Eclipse 
Low Airloss
Therapy, PrimeAire 
ARS, VersaCare
A.I.R. , Acucair ,
FlexiCair MC3  Low
Airloss Therapy

FlexiCair Eclipse  
Low Airloss 
Therapy, Acucair , 
PrimeAire  Surface, 
Pro 2000 , A2, 
Acucair  Mat, 
Synergy  Air Elite, 
ComfortFlair , 
FlairCair , 
FlexiCair MC3  Low 
Airloss Therapy

Silkair  Overlay, 
Silkair  MRS, 
Sentry 1200 APM , 
FlexiCair Eclipse  
Low Airloss 
Therapy, Acucair , 
PrimeAire  Surface

Duo  2, 
ClinActiv , 
Alto , 
Primo  

Products used  
primarily for wound  
prevention 

Comfortline 
Ultimate , 
Primeaire  Therapy 
Surface

Comfortline , 
Comfortline 
Ultimate , 
Primeaire  Therapy 
Surface

ComfortFlair 

Clinisert 2 , 
Thermocontour, 
SimCair  

Pulmonary bed/surfaces
which provide
continuous lateral
rotation of the
patient, percussion,
pulsating and
vibration 

TotalCare SpO2RT , 
V-Cue 

Synergy  Dynamic, 
Synergy  Elite 
Turn, Synergy  
Pulse, V-Cue 

Synergy  Dynamic, 
Synergy  Elite 
Turn, V-Cue 

Respicair , 
Respistar , 
TotalCare SpO2RT  

6 

Table of Contents   

Therapy Product and  

Surfaces Uses/Features  
       
      Acute Care  
       
      Extended Care  
       
      Home Care  
       
      International  

Products specifically
designed for the needs
of the bariatric
patient 

Magnum  II, 
TotalCare  
Bariatric, 
FlexiCair Eclipse 
Ultra , Excel Care 

Magnum  II, 
FlexiCair Eclipse 
Ultra , 
TriFlex  I System, 
TriFlex  II System, 
Synergy  Air Elite 
Bariatric Mattress 
Replacement, Low 
Profile FlairCair 

Magnum  II, 
FlexiCair Eclipse 
Ultra , 
TriFLex  I System, 
TriFlex  II System, 
Synergy  Air Elite 
Bariatric Mattress 
Replacement, Low 
Profile FlairCair 

ProAxis  

Airway clearance in  
chronic pulmonary  
disease patients  
through high frequency  
chest wall oscillation 

The Vest  System

The Vest  System

The Vest  System

The Vest  System 

Sequential compression
device for the
prevention of deep
vein thrombosis 

ActiveCare DVT 

Hill-Rom rents and sells non-invasive therapeutic products and surfaces in the United States,
Canada and Europe through a clinical sales force comprised primarily of professionals with a
background in nursing or respiratory therapy. Technical support is made available through an
extensive network of technicians and service personnel who provide maintenance and technical
assistance from more than 250 Hill-Rom service centers located in the United States, Canada and
Europe. Certain Hill-Rom    therapy systems are also sold to customers. Approximately 28
percent of Hill-Rom s revenues are derived from these therapeutic products and surfaces.

Moveable Medical Equipment Rentals and Asset Management Services.  Hill-Rom provides
peak-need rentals and full-hospital asset management of a wide variety of moveable medical
equipment, also known in the industry as MME, such as ventilators, infusion pumps and monitoring
equipment. Hill-Rom s medical equipment rental and service business also includes equipment
service contracts for Hill-Rom s capital equipment. Hill-Rom provides these products and services
primarily to acute and extended health care facilities through a network of over 250 service
centers and over 1,700 service professionals throughout the United States, Canada and Europe.

Asset Management services are provided by Hill-Rom through various business models to hospitals.
Customers seek our services in order to optimize use of their capital investment, as well as a
means of introducing new technologies to the hospital and improving utilization by controlling the
deployment of their assets.

Approximately 12 percent of Hill-Rom s revenues are derived from these products and services.

Workflow Information Technology Solutions.  Hill-Rom develops and markets a variety of
communications technologies and software solutions that are designed to enhance operational
efficiency, improve asset utilization and capacity optimization of health care facilities. These
products include our suite of clinical communication and productivity solutions, our NaviCare 
Patient Flow Management System and WatchChild  Obstetric Data Management System. These solutions
enable patient-to-staff and staff-to-staff
communications to improve patient outcomes and caregiver safety and efficiency. By aggregating
messages, alarms and data from patient platforms or other integrated communication devices we can
provide real-time alerts to caregivers and construct post-event analyses. Included in this suite
is a new product that

7 

Table of Contents   

takes important bed data and sends it directly to the caregiver to improve
patient safety related to the prevention of patient falls and ventilator acquired pneumonia. Our
NaviCare  Patient Flow Management System enhances productivity through a suite of visual display
and communication tools that automate patient flow tasking and the bed and room turnover process.
Finally, through our WatchChild  Obstetric Data Management System, Hill-Rom also provides a
perinatel safety solutions suite that focuses on maternal and fetal monitoring and data archiving.

Hill-Rom provides these hardware and software products and services primarily to acute and extended
health care facilities through 30 direct sales executives located throughout the United States and
Canada. Approximately 6 percent of Hill-Rom s revenues are derived from these products and
services to enhance operational efficiency and asset utilization.

Hill-Rom has contracts in the United States with numerous group purchasing organizations, or GPOs,
which represent large groups of acute care and extended care facilities in order to negotiate
rental and purchase terms on behalf of all of their members, as well as with government purchasers
in the United States and elsewhere. A significant portion of Hill-Rom s sales are made pursuant to
these contracts.

Hill-Rom operates hospital bed, therapy bed and patient room equipment manufacturing and
development facilities in the United States, France and with the October, 2006 acquisition of
Medicraft, Australia. Most Hill-Rom    products in developed regions are delivered by Hill-Rom
owned trucks.

Competition 

Hill-Rom s competitors in North America include the following, among others:

Product Categories 
       
     Competitors 

Hospital Bed Frames and Surfaces

Stryker Corporation 

Huntleigh Healthcare, Inc. 

Sunrise Medical/Joerns Healthcare Inc. 

Invacare Corporation 

Linet spol. s r.o. 

Paramount Bed Co., Ltd. 

Non-invasive Therapy Surfaces and
Specialty Beds/Surfaces

Kinetic Concepts, Inc. 
Gaymar Industries, Inc. 
SIZEWise Rentals, L.L.C. 
Pegasus Airwave, Inc. 
B.G. Industries, Inc. 
Comfortex, Inc. 
Medline Industries, Inc. (mattresses) 
Sentech Medical Systems, Inc. (mattresses) 
Patient Care Systems (mattresses) 

Moveable Medical Equipment Rentals and
Asset Management Services

Universal Hospital Services, Inc. 
Freedom Medical, Inc. 
Custom Medical Solutions 
Numerous regional/local businesses 

Workflow Information Technology Solutions

Premise Corporation 
Rauland-Borg Corporation 
Teletracker, Inc. 
GE Security, Sound   Communications 

8 

Table of Contents   

Internationally, Hill-Rom also competes with a large number of competitors and regional
manufacturers.

Hill-Rom competes on the basis of product clinical utility and value, quality, customer service,
innovation and breadth and depth of product offerings.

Regulatory Matters 

FDA Regulation 

Hill-Rom designs, manufactures, installs and distributes medical devices that are regulated by the
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States and similar agencies in other countries.
The regulations adopted and standards imposed by these agencies evolve over time and require
Hill-Rom to make changes in its manufacturing processes and quality systems to remain in
compliance. These agencies routinely inspect Hill-Rom s facilities, as with other medical device
manufacturers. If Hill-Rom fails to comply with applicable regulations and standards, determined
by inspections or otherwise, Hill-Rom may be subject to compliance measures, including the recall
of products and cessation of manufacturing and/or distribution.

As necessary, Hill-Rom engages in voluntary product recalls and other corrective actions, including
voluntarily ceasing shipment of devices. Additionally, within our medical equipment rental fleet,
Hill-Rom is responsible for extending these types of actions to its customer base when the actions
are initiated by the original equipment manufacturer. Hill-Rom has also implemented an extensive
program designed to ensure its quality systems continue to comply with the FDA Quality System
Regulation requirements and the regulatory equivalents under the Medical Device Directive in the
European Union.

Over the past twelve months, the FDA performed inspections at our Charleston, Batesville, Cary, and
Acton facilities. The FDA issued no reports of observations for the Charleston, Batesville, and
Cary inspections and issued a report of observation for the Acton inspection. Hill-Rom has
responded to this report with a remediation plan and expects no further actions. Audits conducted
by foreign agencies have resulted in some observations resulting in corrective actions implemented
by the Company. Hill-Rom recently received certification to ISO 13485-2003 for all its facilities
supplying products to the European Union. This revised quality system standard is a significant
change from past standards and is required for future compliance. While Hill-Rom believes it has
responded fully to the findings and has implemented corrective actions when necessary, any
determination by the FDA or similar foreign agency that Hill-Rom s products or quality systems do
not comply with applicable regulations could result in future compliance activities, including
product recalls, injunctions preventing shipment of products, or other enforcement actions that
could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash
flow.

Health Care Regulation 

Hill-Rom s customers include hospitals and other acute and extended care facilities that receive
reimbursement for certain products and services they provide from various third-party payors
including Medicare, Medicaid, managed care organizations, such as health maintenance organizations
and preferred provider organizations, and traditional indemnity insurers. In our home care
business and a small portion of our extended care business, we are reimbursed directly by such
third-party payors. Accordingly, our home care business is
significantly affected by changes in reimbursement practices of such third-party payors. In
addition, our customers are significantly affected by changes that may result in reduced
utilization and downward pressure on prices across our health care businesses. Future legislative
or regulatory efforts relating to health care reimbursement policies or other factors affecting
health care spending may further affect the manner in which our customers acquire and use our
products. For example, federal deficit reduction legislation is being considered by Congress. Any
such legislation could negatively impact Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement.

9 

Table of Contents   

The Medicare Modernization Act, or MMA, passed in November of 2003, represents some of the most
complex and far-reaching changes to Medicare since its inception. While the MMA has not been fully
implemented and all of the implications of this far-reaching law are not yet clear, the Act has
been largely positive to Hill-Rom so far due to a variety of favorable hospital reimbursement
provisions including full market basket updates. However, requirements affecting durable medical
equipment placed in the home resulted in a general rate freeze effective from 2004 through the
beginning of 2008. Additionally, during 2005, further cuts targeted to specifically identified
items of durable medical equipment were instituted. Competitive bidding is anticipated to commence
in 10 metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs) in 2007, in 80 MSAs in 2009 and nationally thereafter.
The overall effect of these actions is intended to reduce government spending on this type of
equipment. Increased cost projections associated with the MMA along with the growing federal
budget deficit concerns and other factors could combine to create what we believe to be conditions
favorable to Medicare and Medicaid cost containment measures in 2007 and beyond.

FUNERAL SERVICES 

Batesville Casket Company is a leader in the North American death care industry through the sale of
funeral service products, including burial caskets, cremation caskets, containers and urns,
selection room display fixturing, other personalization and memorialization products. Batesville
Casket was founded in 1884 and acquired by the Hillenbrand family in 1906.

Products and Services 

Batesville manufactures and sells gasketed caskets made of carbon steel, stainless steel, copper
and bronze. It also produces and markets non-gasketed steel, hardwood and veneer hardwood caskets.
In addition, Batesville manufactures and sells cloth-covered caskets, all wood construction
(orthodox) caskets and a line of urns, containers and other memorialization products used in
cremations. Batesville also supplies selection room display fixturing through its System Solutions
by Batesville    group.

Most Batesville-produced metal caskets are gasketed caskets that are electronically welded to help
resist the entrance of outside elements through the use of rubber gaskets and a locking bar
mechanism. Batesville s premium steel caskets also employ an alloy bar to help protect the casket
cathodically from rust and corrosion. We believe that this system of cathodic protection is a
feature found only on Batesville produced caskets.

Solid and veneer hardwood caskets from Batesville are made from mahogany, cherry, walnut, maple,
pine, oak, pecan and poplar. Batesville s veneer caskets are manufactured using a proprietary
process for veneering that allows for rounded corners and a furniture-grade finished appearance.
Batesville also provides select lines of Marsellus  premium caskets to our funeral home customers.

The Options    by Batesville cremation line offers a complete cremation marketing system for
funeral service professionals. In addition to a broad line of cremation caskets, containers and
urns, the system includes training, merchandising support and marketing support materials.
Cremation caskets and containers are manufactured primarily of hardwoods and fiberboard. Options 
wide assortment of memorial urns are made from a variety of materials, including cast bronze, cast
acrylic, wood, sheet bronze, cloisonn  and marble.

Batesville offers several other marketing and merchandising programs to funeral professionals for
both casket and cremation products. Batesville    caskets are marketed by Batesville s direct
sales force to licensed funeral professionals operating licensed funeral establishments (or, in the
absence of state licensing requirements, to full service funeral establishments offering both
funeral goods and funeral services in conformance with state law) throughout the United States,
Puerto Rico, the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, Mexico and South Africa. A

10 

Table of Contents   

significant portion
of Batesville s sales are made to large national funeral services providers under contracts
Batesville has entered into with these customers.

Batesville maintains inventory at 89 company-operated Customer Service Centers (CSCs) and six Rapid
Deployment Centers (RDCs) in North America. Batesville    caskets are generally delivered in
specially equipped vehicles owned by Batesville.

Batesville mainly manufactures and distributes products in the U.S. It also has two manufacturing
facilities in Mexico and distribution facilities in Canada, Mexico, the United Kingdom, Puerto
Rico, South Africa and Australia.

Competition 

Batesville is a recognized North American industry leader in the sale of funeral services products.
Batesville competes on the basis of customer service, product quality, innovation, personalization
and price. Major competitors that manufacture and/or sell funeral services products over a wide
geographic area include Aurora Casket Company and The York Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Matthews
International Corporation.

Throughout the United States, many other enterprises manufacture, assemble, and/or distribute
funeral services products for sale, often focusing on particular regions or geographic areas.
Additionally, Batesville is facing increasing competition from a number of non-traditional sources,
including casket manufacturers located abroad.

HILLENBRAND CONSOLIDATED 

Raw Materials 

Principal materials used in Hill-Rom s products include carbon steel, aluminum, stainless steel,
wood, high-pressure laminates, petroleum based products, fabrics, foams, plastics, silicone-coated
soda-lime glass beads and other materials, substantially all of which are available from several
sources. Motors and electronic controls for electrically operated beds and certain other
components are purchased from one or more manufacturers. Batesville employs carbon and stainless
steel, copper and bronze sheet, wood, fabrics, finishing materials, rubber gaskets, zinc and
magnesium alloy in the manufacture of its caskets.

When prices fluctuate for raw materials and sub-assemblies used in our products, based on a number
of factors beyond our control, such fluctuations affect our profitability. We generally do not
engage in hedging transactions with respect to raw material purchases, but do enter into fixed
price supply contracts at times. Additionally, although most of the raw materials and
sub-assemblies used in our products are generally available from several sources, certain of these
raw materials and sub-assemblies currently are procured only from a single source.

Beginning in fiscal 2005, the rising prices of certain raw materials, including red metals (i.e.,
copper and bronze), plastic, fuel and petroleum based products in particular, and fuel related
delivery costs, had a direct and material negative effect on our profitability. We have acted and
have plans and actions in place to mitigate the impact of rising raw material and fuel prices,
including continuous improvement, the centralization of the global supply chain at Hill-Rom to
optimize manufacturing operations and purchasing power with suppliers, increased utilization of low
cost region sourcing through our sourcing office in China, the recently completed consolidation of
Batesville s United States wood manufacturing operations into a single facility, the continued and
expanded roll-out of Batesville s veneer products from its Mexican manufacturing operations with
overall lower material cost composition and annual product price adjustments as contractually
allowed. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to anticipate and react quickly
to all changing raw material and sub-assembly prices in the future.

11 

Table of Contents   

Some of Batesville Casket s sales are made pursuant to supply agreements with its
customers, and historically, Batesville Casket has instituted annual price increases to help offset
the impact of inflation and other rising cost factors. Additionally, most of Hill-Rom s extended
contracts with GPOs and customers for the sale of North American products permit us to institute
annual list price increases. While there are certain limitations in some of those contracts and
agreements, their provisions generally allow us to raise prices to offset some, but not necessarily
all, raw material cost inflation.

Distribution 

In our medical and funeral services businesses, we have extensive distribution capabilities. In
medical, we have broad reach across all health care settings. We have relationships with a large
number of acute care hospitals, extended care facilities, community health settings and home health
care agencies. Through our network of approximately 220 North American and 30 international
service centers and approximately 1,450 North American and 250 international service professionals,
we are able to rapidly deliver our products to customers. This extensive network is critical to
securing contracts with GPOs and serving our other customers.

Likewise, Batesville Casket s high-velocity, hub and spoke distribution system, consisting of six
Rapid Deployment Centers and 89 Customer Service Centers in North America, serves a majority of
Batesville customers each day and is critical to the rapid delivery requirements of funeral
directors nationwide.

Research 

Each of our operating subsidiaries conducts research to develop new products and improve existing
products, as well as to enhance manufacturing and production methods and improve service. All
research and development is currently internally sponsored and expensed as incurred. Research
and development expense incurred for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, was
$42.1 million, $50.5 million and $55.8 million, respectively.

Patents and Trademarks 

We own, and from time-to-time license, a number of patents on our products and manufacturing
processes that are of importance, but we do not believe any single patent or related group of
patents is of material significance to our business as a whole.

We also own a number of trademarks and service marks relating to our products and product services
which are of importance to us, but, except for the marks  Hill-Rom  and  Batesville , we do not
believe any single trademark or service mark is of material significance to our business as a
whole.

Our ability to compete effectively depends, to an extent, on our ability to maintain the
proprietary nature of our intellectual property. However, we may not be sufficiently protected by
our various patents, trademarks and service marks. Additionally, certain of our existing patents,
trademarks or service marks may be challenged, invalidated, cancelled, narrowed or circumvented.
Beyond that, we may not receive the pending or contemplated patents, trademarks or service marks
for which we have applied or filed.

In the past, certain of our products have been copied and sold by others. We vigorously try to
enforce our intellectual property rights. However, we cannot ensure that the copying and sale of
our products by others would not materially adversely affect the sale of our products.

12 

Table of Contents   

Employees 

As of September 30, 2006, we employed approximately 9,300 persons in our operations. Approximately
2,000 of these individuals, as part of our logistics and manufacturing operations in the United
States, work under collective bargaining agreements. We are also subject to various collective
bargaining arrangements or national agreements outside the United States. In the United States and
Canada, the collective bargaining agreements have expiration dates ranging from February 2007 to
June 2010. We have one collective bargaining agreement in Canada that will expire during the next
twelve months. Outside of the United States and Canada, negotiations take place as determined by
country level requirements, with some elements of employment being negotiated annually.

Although we have not experienced any significant work stoppages in the past 20 years as a result of
labor disagreements, we cannot ensure that such a stoppage will not occur in the future. Inability
to negotiate satisfactory new agreements or a labor disturbance at one of our principal facilities
could have a material adverse effect on our operations. However, we have no reason to suspect that
we will have significant difficulties in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements to
replace those that will expire in the future and we will continue to prepare contingency plans as
part of routine preparation for negotiations in order to minimize the impact of any potential work
stoppages.

Regulatory Matters 

Environmental Protection 

We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations
relating to environmental and health and safety concerns, including the handling, storage,
discharge and disposal of hazardous materials used in or derived from our manufacturing processes.
We are committed to operating all of our businesses in a manner that protects the environment. In
the past year, we were issued two violation letters, each alleging violation of one minor
environmental permit condition. The violations involved no fines or penalties. We, however, have
successfully implemented measures to abate such conditions in compliance with the underlying
agreements and/or regulations. In the past, we have voluntarily entered into remediation
agreements with various environmental authorities to address onsite and offsite environmental
impacts. We have also been notified as a potentially responsible party in investigations of
certain offsite disposal facilities. Based on the nature and volume of materials involved, we do
not expect the cost to us of the onsite and offsite remediation activities in which we are
currently involved to exceed $1 million. We believe we have provided adequate reserves in our
financial statements for all of these matters, which have been determined without consideration of
possible loss recoveries from third parties. Future events or changes in existing laws and
regulations or their
interpretation may require us to make additional expenditures in the future. The cost or need for
any such additional expenditures is not known.

Foreign Operations and Export Sales 

Information about our foreign operations is set forth in tables relating to geographic information
in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which statements are included herein under
Item 8.

Our export revenues constituted less than 10 percent of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2006 and
prior years.

Our foreign operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries. Risks
associated with operating internationally include political, social and economic instability,
increased operating costs, expropriation and complex and changing government regulations, all of
which are beyond our control. Further, to the extent we receive revenue from

13 

Table of Contents   

U.S. export sales in
currencies other than U.S. dollars, the value of assets and income could be, and have in the past
been, adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of local currencies.

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Our executive officers are elected each year by the Board of Directors at its first meeting
following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and from time-to-time as necessary, to serve during
the ensuing year and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. There are no
family relationships between any of our executive officers or between any of them and any of the
members of the Board of Directors. The following is a list of our executive officers as of
November 17, 2006.

Peter H. Soderberg, 60, was elected as President and Chief Executive Officer of both Hillenbrand
Industries and Hill-Rom effective March 20, 2006. Mr. Soderberg, a Hillenbrand board member since
2002, was most recently President and Chief Executive Officer of Welch Allyn, Inc., Skaneateles
Falls, N.Y. He held that position since January, 2000. Mr. Soderberg was previously Group Vice President
and Chief Operating Officer of Welch Allyn, Inc. His prior experience includes 23 years at Johnson
  Johnson where he served in a variety of operations, marketing and management positions in four of
its over-the-counter and professional product companies. Most recently, he was President of Johnson  
Johnson Health Management, a Johnson   Johnson portfolio company. His career also includes roles
as President and Chief Executive Officer of an industrial technology company and the founder and
President of a venture capital business. He is on the Boards of Directors of Greatbatch, Inc.
(NYSE:GB), the Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed),
and, before his recent move to
Indiana, was on the boards of the Syracuse Symphony Orchestra (as its Vice Chairman), the Metropolitan Development
Authority of Central New York (as its Vice Chairman) and CNYMedtech (as its Chairman).

Gregory N. Miller, 43, was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Hillenbrand
and Hill-Rom effective July 14, 2005. He previously held the positions of Vice President -
Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for Hillenbrand Industries from May 16, 2002 to July 14,
2005 and Vice President   Controller from November 9, 2001 to May 16, 2002. Prior to joining the
Company he held a number of positions with Newell Rubbermaid, Inc., a manufacturer and marketer of
name-brand consumer products and its divisions including Group Vice President and Controller, Photo
Fashions and Juvenile Products Groups, Newell Rubbermaid from 2000 to 2001; Vice President and
Controller, Little Tikes Company, a Newell Rubbermaid division from 1999 to 2000; Vice President
and Controller and various positions of increasing responsibility in finance for Newell Window
Furnishings/Kirsch from 1993 to 1999. Prior to his Newell positions, he held positions with the
accounting firms of Deloitte   Touche LLP and Grant Thornton.

Richard G. Keller, 45, was elected Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of
Hillenbrand effective August 4, 2005. He had served as Executive Director   Controller of Hill-Rom
since March 2004 and as Director, Financial Planning and Analysis of Hillenbrand from May 2002 to
March 2004. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Keller served as a Director in the Audit and
Business Advisory Services group of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

Kenneth A. Camp, 61, was elected President and Chief Executive Officer of Batesville Casket Company
on May 1, 2001 and was elected Senior Vice President of Hillenbrand Industries on October 1, 2006,
having been a Vice President of Hillenbrand Industries since October 8, 2001. He has been employed
by the Company since 1981. Mr. Camp previously held the position of Vice President of
Administration of Hillenbrand Industries from 2000 to 2001. Prior to that assignment he held
various positions at Batesville Casket Company including Vice President/General Manager of
Operations from 1995 to 2000; Vice President, Sales and Service; Vice President, Marketing; and
Vice President, Strategic Planning.

14 

Table of Contents   

Patrick D. de Maynadier, 46, was elected on January 28, 2002 as Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary. From May 2000 to October 2001, he was Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary for CombiMatrix Corporation, a biotechnology company that develops software
addressable biochips for drug researchers. From May 1999 to May 2004, he was the President and
Chief Executive Officer of SDI Investments, LLC, a spin-off of Sterling Diagnostic Imaging, Inc.
He served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Sterling Diagnostic
Imaging, Inc. from June 1996 to May 1999. Prior to that he was Associate General Counsel of Falcon
Seaboard Resources, Inc., a cogeneration and oil and gas company and
a corporate and securities partner at the law firm Bracewell   Giuliani, LLP.

Kimberly K. Dennis, 39, has served in various Company vice president roles related to shared
services and information technology since August 5, 2003 and has been Senior Vice President, North
America Post-Acute Care and Information Technology of Hill-Rom since October 1, 2006. She was Vice
President, Business Information Systems for Batesville Casket Company from August 2001 to August
2003 and Director, Enterprise Systems for Batesville Casket Company from January 2000 to August
2001. Her career with the Company started in 1989 with Batesville Casket Company where she held
positions of increasing responsibility in finance, planning, operations, logistics, and information
technology in assignments at Batesville Casket Company, Hillenbrand and Hill-Rom.

John H. Dickey, 52, was elected Vice President of Human Resources of Hillenbrand and Hill-Rom
effective on January 1, 2006. He had served as the Vice President of Human Resources and
Administration for Batesville Casket Company since October 22, 2001. Mr. Dickey previously held
the position of Vice President of Human Resources for Forethought Financial Services from 1997 to
2001. Prior to that, he was Director of Human Resources   Field Operations and Sales for Hill-Rom
Company from 1990 to 1997. His career started with the company in 1976 where he held positions of
increasing responsibility in logistics, operations and human resources.

Michael J. Grippo, 37, was appointed Vice President of Business Development and Strategy on June
12, 2006. Prior to Hillenbrand, Mr. Grippo led the health care investment banking practice of
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, a division of SunTrust Banks, Inc. Prior to that, he served as
director of Business Development for Welch Allyn, Inc., a privately held medical products company
based in Skaneateles, New York. Mr. Grippo received a joint degree in
Economics and Political Science from Princeton University and a master s in Business Administration
(Finance) from New York University.

Availability of Reports and Other Information 

Our website is www.hillenbrand.com. We make available on this website, free of charge, access to
our annual, quarterly and current reports and other documents we file with or furnish to the
Securities and Exchange Commission as soon as practicable after such reports or documents are filed
or furnished. We also make available on our website position specifications for the Chairman, Vice
Chairman, members of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer, our Code of Ethical
Business Conduct, the Corporate Governance Standards of our Board of Directors and the charters of
each of the standing committees of the Board of Directors. All of these documents are also
available to shareholders in print upon request.

15 

Table of Contents   

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 

Our business involves risks. The following information about these risks should be considered
carefully together with the other information contained herein. The risks described below are not
the only risks we face. Additional risks not currently known or deemed immaterial also may result
in adverse effects on our business. 

Failure by us or our suppliers to comply with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations
and similar foreign regulations applicable to the products we manufacture or distribute could
expose us to enforcement actions or other adverse consequences. 

Our health care businesses design, manufacture, install and distribute medical devices that are
regulated by the FDA in the United States and similar agencies in other countries. Failure to
comply with applicable regulations could result in future product recalls, injunctions preventing
shipment of products or other enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on the
revenues and profitability of our health care businesses. Additionally, certain of our suppliers
are subject to FDA regulations, and the failure of these suppliers to comply with regulations could
adversely affect us. Moreover, our moveable medical equipment rental business is subject to
product modifications executed by Hill-Rom on behalf of original medical equipment manufacturers
that can result in unanticipated costs and temporary product shortages. Additionally, regulatory
actions taken by the FDA against those manufacturers can result in product shortages, recalls or
modifications.

Capital equipment sales and rental revenues may be adversely affected by Medicare and state
government Medicaid funding cuts that could affect customers in every segment of our health care
business. We could be subject to substantial fines and possible exclusion from participation in
federal health care programs if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our
business. 

Medicare, Medicaid and managed care organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and
preferred provider organizations, traditional indemnity insurers and third-party administrators are
increasing pressure to both control health care utilization and to limit reimbursement. Historical
changes to Medicare payment programs from traditional  cost-plus  reimbursement to a prospective
payment system resulted in a significant change in how our health care customers acquire and
utilize our products. This has resulted in reduced utilization and downward pressure on prices.
Similarly, future revenues and profitability will be subject to the effect of possible changes in
the mix of our patients among Medicare, Medicaid, third-party and private payor categories,
increases in case management and the review of services or reductions in coverage or reimbursement
rates by such payors. A rising uninsured population (estimated by the U.S. Census Bureau to be
45.8 million) further exacerbates a challenging reimbursement environment for us.

We are subject to stringent laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels, including
numerous laws and regulations aimed at preventing fraud and abuse, governing participation of
providers and suppliers in government health programs and requiring compliance with extensive and
complex billing, collection, substantiation and record-keeping requirements. In addition, we are
subject to periodic requests or audits to evaluate compliance with the requirements and standards
of these government health programs. We expect program requests and audits to increase, as the
federal government increases auditing and oversight resources and continues to increase pressure on
state Medicaid programs to identify and recoup overpayments. From time-to-time, these activities
and our own internal practices and compliance program have identified overpayments and other errors
that resulted in refunds or self-reporting.

If we are deemed to have violated these laws and regulations, we could be subject to substantial
fines and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs
such as

16 

Table of Contents   

Medicare and Medicaid. While we believe that our practices materially comply with
applicable state and federal requirements, the requirements may be interpreted in a manner
inconsistent with our interpretation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, even
if inadvertent, could adversely impact our business. Changes in reimbursement programs or their
regulation, including retroactive and prospective rate and coverage criteria changes and other
changes intended to reduce the program expenditures, could adversely affect our third-party
reimbursement business. If we are not successful in our efforts to improve processes concerning
our Enterprise Resource Planning system and the related business processes with respect to
Hill-Rom s domestic rental business, our compliance with reimbursement laws and regulations and
relationships with Medicare and Medicaid could be adversely affected.

Continued fluctuations in mortality rates and increased cremations may adversely affect, as they
have in recent years, the volume of Batesville Casket s sales of burial caskets. 

As the population of the United States continues to age, we anticipate the number of deaths in
North America will be relatively flat to slightly declining for at least the foreseeable future.
The life expectancy of U.S. citizens has increased steadily since the 1950s and is expected to
continue to do so for the foreseeable future.

Cremations as a percentage of total U.S. deaths have increased steadily since the 1960s, and are
also expected to continue to increase for the foreseeable future. The number of U.S. cremations is
gradually and steadily increasing, resulting in a contraction in the demand for burial caskets,
which contributed to lower burial casket sales volumes for Batesville Casket in each of fiscal
years 2004, 2005 and 2006.

Batesville Casket expects these trends to continue into the foreseeable future and Batesville
Casket s burial casket volumes will likely continue to be negatively impacted by these market
conditions. Finally, death rates can vary over short periods of time and among different
geographical areas, due to, among other factors, the timing and severity of seasonal outbreaks of
illnesses such as pneumonia and influenza. Such variations could cause Batesville Casket s sales
of burial caskets to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year.

Future financial performance will depend in part on the successful introduction of new products
into the marketplace on a cost-effective basis. The financial success of new products could be
adversely impacted by competitors  products, customer acceptance, difficulties in product
development and manufacturing, quality issues and warranty claims, certain regulatory approvals and
other factors. The introduction of new products may also cause customers to defer purchases of
existing products, which could have an adverse effect on sales. 

Future financial performance will depend in part on our ability to influence, anticipate, identify
and respond to changing consumer preferences and needs. We cannot assure that our new products
will achieve the same degree of success that has been achieved historically by our products. We
may not correctly anticipate or identify trends in consumer preferences or needs, or may identify
them later than competitors do. Any strategies we may implement to address these trends may prove
incorrect or ineffective. In addition, difficulties in manufacturing or in obtaining regulatory
approvals may delay or prohibit introduction of new products into the marketplace. Further, we may
not be able to develop and produce new products at a cost that allows us to meet our goals for
profitability, particularly since downward pressure on health care product prices is expected to
continue. Warranty claims relating to our products may be greater than anticipated, and we may be
required to devote significant resources to address any quality issues associated with our new
products, which could reduce the resources available for further new product development. For
example, as part of the tradeoff between clinical effectiveness and comfort, which is inherent in
most clinical products, we have dedicated research and development efforts to improving the comfort
and customer acceptance of certain of our products. These efforts, together with the
foregoing focus on enhancing the competitiveness of our core products have resulted in the
dedication of new product development resources to sustaining development efforts.

17 

Table of Contents   

Failure to successfully introduce new products on a cost-effective basis, or delays in customer
purchasing decisions related to evaluation of new products, could cause us to lose market share and
could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
flow.

Our health care and funeral services businesses are significantly dependent on several major
contracts with large national providers and group purchasing organizations, or GPOs. Our
relationships with these customers and organizations pose several risks. 

A majority of Hill-Rom s contracts with the larger GPOs, which represent a significant portion of
Hill-Rom s sales and most of which were sole-source or dual-source contracts, have reached or will
reach the end of their current terms by the end of calendar 2006. Now that we have completed the
majority of bid submissions and renewals, our results have confirmed our previously disclosed
expectations that GPOs are moving significantly from sole-source agreements to dual and
multi-source awards.

In almost all instances our new or amended contracts with GPOs are dual or multi-source and, in
some instances, we have not been awarded contracts in specific product categories, primarily
related to rental products. While difficult to predict, these changes will put additional pressure
on our rental revenues. We are taking significant actions with respect to our rental business,
which we expect will limit the future unfavorable annual revenue impact of the GPO contract changes
to approximately $25 million, but there can be no assurance that these actions will be successful.

To date, the financial impact of these changes on the capital side of our business have not been
significant. We are at various stages of responding to bids and negotiating some additional GPO
agreements that, if awarded, will replace agreements that are set to expire in calendar 2007.
Failure to be included in one or more of these agreements would have a material adverse effect on
the business.

The hospital group purchasing organization industry is rapidly changing and facing significant
challenges as individual GPOs begin to modify their membership requirements and contracting
practices, including conversion of sole-sourced agreements to agreements with multiple suppliers,
in response to recent Congressional hearings and public criticism. Over the last several years,
GPOs have come under increasing scrutiny regarding contracting practices, including Congressional
hearings and proposed legislation. In response, the industry adopted numerous voluntary reforms.
However, Congress is continuing to evaluate the need to advance legislation. In the interim, the
industry has moved to further strengthen its voluntary ethics initiative. It is difficult to
ascertain when, or if, any legislation will be advanced. It is clear, however, that with or
without legislation, the industry will see fewer sole and more dual and multi-source GPO
agreements.

Additionally, Batesville Casket has contracts with a number of large, national funeral home
customers. In fiscal 2006 we completed renegotiations of new supply agreements with two of these
customers, Stewart Enterprises, Inc. and Carriage Services, Inc. In October of 2006, we completed
negotiation of a new supply agreement with our largest customer, Service Corporation International
( SCI ). The announced completion of the combination of SCI and our second largest
customer, Alderwoods Group, Inc. ( Alderwoods ) will bring purchases by both organizations under
the same agreement. This agreement does not impose specific purchase requirements on the combined
entity. While we anticipate that SCI will continue to buy substantially all its products from us
for the foreseeable future, there can be no guarantee that SCI will do so. In addition, we likely
will lose some business as this new combined entity divests itself of certain overlapping
properties, assuming some of these properties are purchased by funeral homes or other entities that
currently do not purchase
products from us. The result of bringing Alderwoods purchases under the SCI agreement and their
divestiture of numerous properties could have a material adverse effect on our financial results
for 2007 and any decision by the SCI/Alderwoods combined entity not to purchase substantially all
of its products from Batesville Casket would have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.

18 

Table of Contents   

Finally, while our contracts with large health care and funeral services providers and GPOs
provide important access to many of the largest purchasers of health care and funeral services
products, they can obligate us to sell our products at contracted prices for extended periods of
time, therefore limiting our ability, in the short-term, to raise prices in response to significant
increases in raw material prices or other factors.

Increased prices for, or unavailability of, raw materials or sub-assemblies used in our products
could adversely affect profitability or revenues. In particular, our results of operations
continue to be adversely affected by high prices for steel, red metals, solid wood, plastic and
fuel. 

Our profitability is affected by the prices of the raw materials and sub-assemblies used in the
manufacture of our products. These prices may fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our
control, including changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, fuel
related delivery costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates and, in some
cases, government regulation. Significant increases in the prices of raw materials or
sub-assemblies that can not be recovered through increases in the prices of our products could
adversely affect our results of operations. While there was less cost pressure in 2006, we
experienced significantly higher prices in fiscal 2004 and 2005 than we had in prior periods for
commodities used in the manufacture of our products, including red metals, solid wood, steel,
chemicals, fuel and petroleum-based products, such as foam and plastics. Although Batesville
Casket has historically been able to offset such rising costs with increases in the prices of its
products, there can be no assurance that the marketplace will continue to support the higher prices
or that such prices will fully offset such commodity price increases in the future. Any further
increases in prices resulting from a tightening supply of these or other commodities or fuel could
adversely affect our profitability. We generally do not engage in hedging transactions with
respect to raw material purchases, but do enter into fixed price supply contracts at times. Our
decision not to engage in hedging transactions may result in increased price volatility, with
resulting adverse effects on profitability.

Our dependency upon regular deliveries of supplies from particular suppliers means that
interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until
arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made. Several of the raw materials and
sub-assemblies used in the manufacture of our products currently are procured only from a single
source. If any of these sole-source suppliers were unable to deliver these materials for an
extended period of time as a result of financial difficulties, catastrophic events affecting their
facilities or other factors, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of
materials with these sole-source suppliers, our business could suffer. We may not be able to find
acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs. Extended
unavailability of a necessary raw material or sub-assembly could cause us to cease manufacturing
one or more products for a period of time.

Our strategic initiatives may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. In
addition, the possible separation of our two operating companies into two publicly traded companies
may have adverse effects on us. 

In October 2006, we announced significant new operational strategies and initiatives for both of
our operating companies. These strategies include making significant near-term investments to
achieve revenue growth and margin improvement. We expect the funding of these investments to
adversely affect our profitability in fiscal 2007. Moreover, if we do not make these investments
on an effective and timely basis or fail to execute on our strategic
initiatives, we may not achieve the growth and margin improvement we are targeting and our results
of operations may be adversely affected.

Also in October 2006, we announced that our Board of Directors concluded that separating our
current operations into two publicly traded companies merits further, more detailed consideration.
Our Board of Directors has made no decision in this matter and may determine not to pursue any such
transaction. If our Board of Directors determines to pursue the separation of our two operating
companies, the separation may not achieve the intended goal of value creation for our shareholders.
Further, any such transaction will require significant time

19 

Table of Contents   

and attention of our management, which
could distract management from the operation of our business and the execution of our other
strategic initiatives.

We may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and operating cost
reductions, and may experience business disruptions, associated with announced restructuring,
realignment and cost reduction activities. 

Over the past two years, we have announced several restructuring, realignment and cost reduction
initiatives, including most recently a significant realignment of Hill-Rom s businesses, employee
terminations and product rationalizations in Hill-Rom s North American rental business, and plans
to shift a portion of Hill-Rom s manufacturing capacity to a facility in Mexico. These activities
may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits we expect from these activities.
Further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the costs of implementing these
measures may be greater than anticipated. If these measures are not successful, we may undertake
additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. Moreover,
our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected and
we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our restructuring and
realignment efforts prove ineffective.

We continue to incur significant legal costs in the defense of antitrust litigation matters
involving both Batesville Casket and Hill-Rom and expect these increased costs to continue for the
foreseeable future. Moreover, if class certification is granted in any of these antitrust matters
and the plaintiffs prevail at trial, our results of operations, financial position and liquidity
could be materially adversely affected. 

Product liability or other liability claims could expose us to adverse judgments or could affect
the sales of our products. 

We are involved in the design, manufacture and sale of health care products, which face an inherent
risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products are alleged to have caused injury or
are found to be unsuitable for their intended use. Any such claims could negatively impact the
sales of products that are the subject of such claims or other products. We, from time-to-time, and
currently, are a party to claims and lawsuits alleging that our products have caused injury or
death or are otherwise unsuitable. It is possible that we will receive adverse judgments in such
lawsuits, and any such adverse judgments could be material. We do, however, carry insurance with
respect to such matters that are subject to varying deductibles and self-insured retentions, which
would reduce our exposure to any individual claim.

We are involved on an ongoing basis in claims and lawsuits relating to our operations, including
environmental, antitrust, patent infringement, business practices, commercial transactions, and
other matters. 

The ultimate outcome of these lawsuits cannot be predicted with certainty but could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We are also
involved in other possible claims, including product liability, workers compensation,
employment-related matters and auto liability. While insurance is maintained for certain of
these exposures, the policies in place are high-deductible policies resulting in our assuming
exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to such claims.

Our funeral services business is facing increasing competition from a number of non-traditional
sources, including sales of competitors  caskets through internet casket retailers and large retail
discount stores, and caskets manufactured abroad and imported into North America. 

Non-traditional funeral services retailers could present more of a competitive threat to Batesville
Casket and its sales channel than is currently anticipated. While some of these have competed
against Batesville Casket for a number of years, large discount retailers such as Costco, which
have begun selling competitors  caskets, represent a more recent competitive development. Also, we
have learned that several manufacturers located in China are currently

20 

Table of Contents   

manufacturing caskets for
sale into the United States. It is not possible to quantify the financial impact that these
competitors will have on Batesville Casket s business, but these competitors will continue to drive
additional pricing and other competitive pressures that could have a negative impact on Batesville
Casket s results of operations.

We may not be able to grow if we are unable to successfully acquire and integrate, or form business
relationships with, other companies. 

Although we plan to grow certain of our businesses by acquiring or forming partnerships, joint
ventures and alliances with other companies, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition
candidates or business relationships, negotiate acceptable terms for such acquisitions or
relationships or receive necessary financing for such acquisitions or relationships on acceptable
terms. Moreover, once an acquisition, partnership, alliance or joint venture agreement is signed,
various events or circumstances may either prevent the successful consummation of the contemplated
acquisition or transaction, or make it unadvisable. In addition, we expect to compete against
other companies for acquisitions. And therefore, if we are able to consummate acquisitions, such
acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, and we could overpay for such acquisitions.
Additionally, we may not be successful in our efforts to integrate acquired companies. Integration
of acquired companies will divert management and other resources from other important matters, and
we could experience delays or unusual expenses in the integration process. Further, we may become
responsible for liabilities associated with businesses that we acquire to the extent they are not
covered by indemnification from the sellers or by insurance.

We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. 

Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our executive
officers and other key personnel, many of whom we have hired recently as part of our strategic
initiative to ensure leadership excellence. The loss of the services of one or more of our
executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business,
prospects, financial condition and results of operations. This effect could be exacerbated if any
officers or other key personnel left as a group. Our success also depends on our continuing
ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is
intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our key employees or attract, assimilate
and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future.

Volatility in our investment portfolio or collection risk associated with our notes receivable
portfolio could negatively impact earnings. 

Volatility in our investment portfolio with a book value of $64.3 million could negatively impact
earnings. The investment portfolio, which includes equity partnerships among other investments,
could be adversely affected by general economic conditions, changes in interest rates, default on
debt instruments and other factors, resulting in an adverse impact on our financial condition.
This is evident when one significant impairment of a strategic investment resulted in an impairment
charge of $8.7 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, and two
additional impairments resulted in a charge of $2.0 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2006.

In addition, we have outstanding long-term notes receivable of $134.4 million as of September 30,
2006. This balance primarily represents the seller financing provided to FFS Holdings, Inc., the
entity that purchased our former Forethought Financial Services subsidiary, but also includes a
number of notes with customers of Batesville Casket and Hill-Rom associated with amounts owed on
product sales. Should Forethought fail to perform consistent with the original expectations set
forth by FFS Holdings, Inc. or underperform to an extent that it cannot meet its financial
obligations, or should general economic conditions or other factors result in defaults of our
customer notes, our earnings could be negatively impacted resulting in a material adverse impact on
our financial condition and results of operations.

21 

Table of Contents   

A substantial portion of our workforce is unionized, and we could face labor disruptions that would
interfere with our operations. 

Approximately 20 percent of our employees, as part of our logistics and manufacturing operations in
the United States, work under collective bargaining agreements. We are also subject to various
collective bargaining arrangements or national agreements outside the United States. In the United
States and Canada, the collective bargaining agreements have expiration dates ranging from February
2007 to June 2010. Although we have not experienced any significant work stoppages in the past 20
years as a result of labor disagreements, we cannot ensure that such a stoppage will not occur in
the future. Inability to negotiate satisfactory new agreements or a labor disturbance at one of
our principal facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations.

Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

We have not received any comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current
reports that remain unresolved.

22 

Table of Contents   

Item 2. PROPERTIES 

The principal properties used in our continuing operations are listed below, and, except for our
leased facilities in Acton, Massachusetts; Cary, North Carolina; St. Paul, Minnesota and Chihuahua,
Mexico, are owned by us subject to no material encumbrances. All facilities are suitable for their
intended purpose, are being efficiently utilized and are believed to provide adequate capacity to
meet demand for the next several years.

Location 

Description 
       
     Primary Use 

Health Care: 

Acton, MA

Light manufacturing and
development facilities

Manufacture and development
of health care equipment

Office facilities

Administration 

Batesville, IN

Manufacturing, development
and distribution facilities

Manufacture and development
of health care equipment

Office facilities

Administration 

Cary, NC

Manufacturing, development
and office facilities

Manufacture and development
of health care equipment

Charleston, SC

Manufacturing and
development facilities

Manufacture and development
of therapy units

Office facilities

Administration 

St. Paul, MN

Office facilities

Administration 

Pluvigner, France

Manufacturing and
development facility

Manufacture and development
of health care equipment

Office facilities

Administration 

Montpellier, France

Manufacturing and
development facility

Manufacture and development
of
therapy units

Sydney, Australia

Manufacturing, development
and office facilities

Manufacture and development
of health care equipment

Funeral Services: 

Batesville, IN

Manufacturing plants

Manufacture of metal caskets 

Office facilities

Administration 

Manchester, TN

Manufacturing plant

Manufacture of metal caskets 

Vicksburg, MS

Kiln drying and lumber cutting
plant

Drying and dimensioning of
lumber 

Batesville, MS

Manufacturing plant

Manufacture of hardwood
caskets 

Chihuahua, Mexico

Manufacturing plant

Manufacture of hardwood
caskets 

Mexico City, Mexico

Manufacturing plant

Manufacture of metal caskets 

In addition to the foregoing, we lease or own a number of other manufacturing facilities, warehouse
distribution centers, service centers and sales offices throughout the United States, Canada,
Western Europe, Mexico, South Africa, Australia and the Far East.

Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

On June 30, 2003, Spartanburg Regional Healthcare System (the  Plaintiff ) filed a purported
antitrust class action lawsuit against Hillenbrand, Hill-Rom, Inc. and Hill-Rom Company, Inc. in
the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina. Plaintiff s Second Amended
Complaint, filed on May 9, 2005, alleged violations of the federal antitrust laws, including
attempted monopolization, monopoly maintenance and tying claims. Plaintiff sought to certify a
class of all purchasers of Hill-Rom    standard and/or specialty hospital beds, and/or
architectural and in-room products from 1990 to the present where there had been
contracts between Hill-Rom and such purchasers, either on behalf of themselves or through

23 

Table of Contents   

purchasing organizations, conditioning discounts on Hill-Rom    hospital beds and other
architectural and in-room products on commitments to rent or purchase a very high percentage (e.g.
ninety percent) of specialty beds from Hill-Rom. Plaintiff subsequently narrowed the definition of
its proposed class to acute and subacute facilities. Plaintiff claimed that it and the alleged
class sustained injury caused by Hill-Rom s discounting practices, which allegedly harmed
competition and resulted in higher prices for standard and/or specialty hospital beds and/or
architectural and in-room products.

Plaintiff sought actual monetary damages on behalf of the purported class in excess of $100
million, trebling of any such damages that might have been awarded, recovery of attorneys  fees and
costs, and injunctive relief. Hillenbrand anticipated that, if a settlement had not been reached,
the Plaintiff would have sought damages substantially in excess of $100 million, before trebling.
If a class had been certified and Plaintiffs had proceeded to trial and had prevailed, potential
trebled damages awarded the Plaintiffs could have been substantially in excess of $100 million and
could have had a significant material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
condition, and liquidity.

As of November 7, 2005, all proceedings in the lawsuit were stayed except those relating to the
parties  efforts to complete a settlement. On February 3, 2006 the Court preliminarily approved a
definitive agreement to settle the case for $337.5 million in cash entered into as of February 2,
2006 among Hillenbrand, its Hill-Rom subsidiaries, Spartanburg Regional Healthcare System and its
attorneys. The Court entered an Order and Final Judgment approving the settlement following a
fairness hearing on June 14, 2006. As finally approved by the Court, the settlement resolves all
of the claims of class members that did not opt out of the settlement, including the claims of all
U.S. and Canadian purchasers or renters of Hill-Rom  products from 1990 through February 2, 2006
related to or arising out of the subject matter of the lawsuit, and the claims that may have
resulted from the current or future effects of conduct or events occurring through February 2,
2006. The original settlement amount of $337.5 million was reduced by almost $21.2 million, to
$316.3 million, reflecting the portion attributable to customers who opted out of the settlement.
Opt-outs from the settlement account for roughly six percent of the total U.S. and Canadian revenue
during the class period, and over 99 percent of that figure is attributable to the U.S.
government s decision to opt out of the settlement. We believe we have meritorious defenses
against any claims the U.S. government may choose to make, due to, among other reasons, pricing
practices of government purchases that are different than the pricing practices primarily at issue
in the lawsuit.

The settlement agreement includes Hill-Rom s commitment to continue certain company-initiated
discounting practices for a period of three years. Essentially, Hill-Rom implemented a policy in
October 2002, which it has agreed to follow until at least February 2009. Under that policy, which
did not represent a material change in our discounting practices, Hill-Rom refrains from entering
into new contracts that condition incremental discounts on Hill-Rom  hospital beds or architectural
products on commitments to rent therapy products from Hill-Rom. While such products may be sold
together, rental therapy products are separately priced and discounted. Under the settlement
Hill-Rom may continue to offer all other discounts such as volume discounts, early payment
discounts, capitation, etc. Further, the discounting practices that gave rise to the Spartanburg
litigation have already been discontinued (or will be discontinued on the expiration of certain
existing contracts) and have been replaced by alternative practices for each of the last four
fiscal years. Therefore, any impact of the discontinuance of such practices on our business is
already fully reflected in our reported results.

In connection with our assessment that it was probable that a settlement would be reached and
finally approved by the Court during fiscal 2006, we recorded a litigation charge and established a
litigation accrual in the amount of $358.6 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal
2005, which included certain legal and other costs associated with the proposed settlement. With
the Court s entering of the Order and Final Judgment in the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we
reversed $2.3 million of the $21.1 million of estimated legal and other costs originally

24 

Table of Contents   

provided as part of the litigation accrual as such amounts are not probable of payment. We paid the
remaining $266.3 million of the settlement amount into escrow in August 2006 and have retained a
$21.2 million litigation accrual associated with the opt-outs.

On May 2, 2005, a non-profit entity called Funeral Consumers Alliance, Inc. ( FCA ) and several
individual consumers filed a purported class action antitrust lawsuit ( FCA Action ) against three
national funeral home businesses, Service Corporation International ( SCI ), Alderwoods Group, Inc.
( Alderwoods ), and Stewart Enterprises, Inc. ( Stewart ) together with Hillenbrand and its
Batesville Casket Company, Inc. subsidiary ( Batesville ), in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of California. This lawsuit alleged a conspiracy to suppress competition in
an alleged market for the sale of caskets through a group boycott of so-called  independent casket
discounters,  that is, third-party casket sellers unaffiliated with licensed funeral homes; a
campaign of disparagement against these independent casket discounters; and concerted efforts to
restrict casket price competition and to coordinate and fix casket pricing, all in violation of
federal antitrust law and California s Unfair Competition Law. The lawsuit claimed, among other
things, that Batesville s maintenance and enforcement of, and alleged modifications to, its
long-standing policy of selling caskets only to licensed funeral homes were the product of a
conspiracy among Batesville, the other defendants and others to exclude  independent casket
discounters  and that this alleged conspiracy, combined with other alleged matters, suppressed
competition in the alleged market for caskets and led consumers to pay higher than competitive
prices for caskets. The FCA Action alleged that two of Batesville s competitors, York Group, Inc.
and Aurora Casket Company, are co-conspirators but did not name them as defendants. The FCA Action
also alleged that SCI, Alderwoods, Stewart and other unnamed co-conspirators conspired to
monopolize the alleged market for the sale of caskets in the United States.

After the FCA Action was filed, several more purported class action lawsuits on behalf of consumers
were filed based on essentially the same factual allegations and alleging violations of federal
antitrust law and/or related state law claims. It is not unusual to have multiple copycat class
action suits filed after an initial filing, and it is possible that additional suits based on the
same or similar allegations will be brought against Hillenbrand and Batesville.

Batesville, Hillenbrand and the other defendants filed motions to dismiss the FCA Action and a
motion to transfer to a more convenient forum. In response, the court in California permitted the
plaintiffs to replead the complaint and later granted defendants  motion to transfer the action to
the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas (Houston, Texas) ( Court ).

On October 12, 2005, the FCA plaintiffs filed an amended complaint consolidating all but one of the
other purported consumer class actions in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Texas. The amended FCA complaint contains substantially the same basic allegations as
the original FCA complaint. The only other then remaining purported consumer class action, Fancher
v. SCI et al., was subsequently dismissed voluntarily by the plaintiff after the defendants filed a
motion to dismiss. On October 26, 2006, however, a new purported class action was filed by the
estates of Dale Van Coley and Joye Katherine Coley, Candace D. Robinson, Personal Representative,
consumer plaintiffs, against Batesville and Hillenbrand in the Western District of Oklahoma
alleging violation of the antitrust laws in fourteen states based on allegations that Batesville
engaged in conduct designed to foreclose competition and gain a monopoly position in the market.
This lawsuit is largely based on similar factual allegations to the FCA Action. The company
intends to move to transfer this case to the Southern District of Texas in order to coordinate this
action with the FCA Action.

The FCA plaintiffs are seeking certification of a class that includes all United States consumers
who purchased Batesville caskets from any of the funeral home co-defendants at any time during the
fullest period permitted by the applicable statute of limitations. The Fancher plaintiffs sought
certification of a broader class: all United States consumers and entities who purchased
Batesville caskets from any source at any time during the fullest period permitted by

25 

Table of Contents   

the applicable statute of limitations. Plaintiffs generally seek actual unspecified monetary damages,
trebling of any such damages that may be awarded, recovery of attorneys  fees and costs and
injunctive relief. On October 18, 2006, the district court denied Batesville s, Hillenbrand s, and
other defendants  November 2005 motions to dismiss the amended FCA complaint.

A scheduling hearing occurred on December 6, 2005. As a result, the Class Certification hearing is
scheduled to occur from December 4-7, 2006. The trial in the FCA matter is scheduled to begin on
or about February 4, 2008.

In addition to the consumer lawsuits discussed above, on July 8, 2005 Pioneer Valley Casket Co.
( Pioneer Valley ), an alleged casket store and Internet retailer, also filed a purported class
action lawsuit against Batesville, Hillenbrand, SCI, Alderwoods, and Stewart in the Northern
District of California on behalf of the class of  independent casket distributors,  alleging
violations of state and federal antitrust law and state unfair and deceptive practices laws based
on essentially the same factual allegations as in the consumer cases. Pioneer Valley claimed that
it and other independent casket distributors were injured by the defendants  alleged conspiracy to
boycott and suppress competition in the alleged market for caskets, and by an alleged conspiracy
among SCI, Alderwoods, Stewart and other unnamed co-conspirators to monopolize the alleged market
for caskets.

Plaintiff Pioneer Valley seeks certification of a class of all independent casket distributors who
are now in business or have been in business since July 8, 2001. Pioneer Valley generally seeks
actual unspecified monetary damages on behalf of the purported class, trebling of any such damages
that may be awarded, recovery of attorneys  fees and costs and injunctive relief.

The Pioneer Valley complaint was also transferred to the Southern District of Texas but was not
consolidated with the FCA Action, although the scheduling orders for both cases are identical. On
October 21, 2005, Pioneer Valley filed an amended complaint adding three new plaintiffs, each of
whom purports to be a current or former  independent casket distributor.  Like Pioneer Valley s
original complaint, the amended complaint alleges violations of federal antitrust laws, but it has
dropped the causes of actions for alleged price fixing, conspiracy to monopolize, and violations of
state antitrust law and state unfair and deceptive practices laws. On October 25, 2006, the
district court denied Hillenbrand s and Batesville s December 2005 motions to dismiss the amended
Pioneer Valley complaint. The class certification hearing in the Pioneer Valley case is currently
scheduled to begin on or about December 7-8, 2006.

If a class is certified in any of the antitrust cases filed against Hillenbrand and Batesville and
if plaintiffs in any such case prevail at trial, potential trebled damages awarded to the
plaintiffs could have a significant material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
condition, and/or liquidity. Accordingly, we are aggressively defending against the allegations
made in all of these cases and intend to assert what we believe to be meritorious defenses to class
certification and to plaintiffs  allegations and damage theories.

After the FCA Action was filed, in the summer and fall of 2005, Batesville was served with Civil
Investigative Demands ( CIDs ) by the Attorney General of Maryland and certain other state
attorneys general who have begun an investigation of possible anticompetitive practices in the
funeral service industry relating to a range of funeral services and products, including caskets.
Batesville has been informed that approximately 26 state attorneys general offices are
participating in the joint investigation, although more could join. Batesville is cooperating with
the attorneys general. To date, no claims have been filed against Batesville.

In August 2005, Hill-Rom received a civil subpoena from the Office of the Connecticut Attorney
General seeking documents and information related to the Attorney General s investigation of the
Healthcare Research   Development Institute, LLC ( HRDI ), a health care trade organization, of
which Hill-Rom is a corporate member. Hill-Rom has responded to that subpoena. On April 3, 2006,
Hill-Rom received a set of supplemental interrogatories from the

26 

Table of Contents   

Attorney General s Office. Hill-Rom has responded to those interrogatories. We are cooperating with the Attorney General s
investigation. To date, no claims have been filed against Hill-Rom.

We are subject to various other claims and contingencies arising out of the normal course of
business, including those relating to commercial transactions, product liability, employee related
matters, antitrust, safety, health, taxes, environmental and other matters. Litigation is subject
to many uncertainties and the outcome of individual litigated matters is not predictable with
assurance. It is possible that some litigation matters for which reserves have not been
established could be decided unfavorably to us, and that any such unfavorable decisions could have
a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We are also involved in other possible claims, including product liability, workers compensation,
auto liability and employment related matters. These have deductibles and self-insured retentions
ranging from $150 thousand to $1.5 million per occurrence or per claim, depending upon the type of
coverage and policy period.

Since December 1999, we have purchased deductible reimbursement policies from our wholly-owned
insurance company, Sycamore Insurance Company, for the deductibles and self-insured retentions
associated with our product liability, workers compensation and auto liability programs. For these
self-insured exposures, outside insurance companies and third-party claims administrators establish
individual claim reserves and an independent outside actuary provides estimates of ultimate
projected losses, including incurred but not reported claims. The actuary also provides estimates
of ultimate projected losses used to determine accrual adequacy for losses incurred prior to
December 1999. These independent third-party estimates are used to record reserves for all
projected deductible and self-insured retention exposures.

Claim reserves for employment related matters are established based upon advice from internal and
external counsel and historical settlement information for claims and related fees when such
amounts are considered probable of payment.

Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended September
30, 2006.

27 

Table of Contents   

PART II 

Item 5.  
       
      MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES  

Market Information 

Hillenbrand Industries  common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker
symbol  HB . The closing stock price as of the latest practicable date of this filing was $60.50
on November 17, 2006. The following table reflects the range of high and low selling prices of our
common stock by quarter for the twelve months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005.

Holders 

On November 17, 2006, there were approximately 24,200 shareholders of record.

Dividends 

We have paid cash dividends on our common stock every quarter since our first public offering in
1971, and those dividends have increased each year thereafter. In fiscal 2006, dividends were paid
on December 30, 2005 and March 31, June 30 and September 29, 2006 to shareholders of record as of
December 16, 2005 and March 17, June 16 and September 15, 2006, respectively. Cash dividends of
$1.13 ($0.2825 per quarter) in fiscal 2006 and $1.12 ($0.28 per quarter) in fiscal 2005 were paid
on each share of common stock outstanding. We currently believe that comparable quarterly cash
dividends will continue to be paid in the future, as evidenced by the Board of Directors recent
approval of a dividend of $0.2825 per share for the first quarter of fiscal 2007.

28 

Table of Contents   

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

1 
       
     All shares purchased in the three months ended September 30, 2006 were in connection with
employee payroll tax withholding for restricted and deferred stock distributions. 

2 
       
     In January 2000, the Board of Directors had approved the repurchase of a total of 24,289,067
shares of common stock. There were no purchases under this approval in the three months ended
September 30, 2006. The approval has no expiration, and there were no terminations or
expirations of plans in the three months ended September 30, 2006. Effective October 26,
2006, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 1,421,600 shares,
bringing the total available for repurchase to 3,000,000 shares. 

29 

Table of Contents   

Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

The following table presents selected consolidated financial data of Hillenbrand Industries, Inc.,
for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, and the ten month period ended
September 30, 2002. Also presented are comparable unaudited data for the twelve-month period ended
September 30, 2002.

30 

Table of Contents   

Item 7.  
       
      MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Overview 

Hillenbrand Industries is organized into two operating companies serving the health care and
funeral services industries.

Hill-Rom is a leading worldwide manufacturer and provider of medical technologies and related
services for the health care industry, including patient support systems, non-invasive therapeutic
products for a variety of acute and chronic medical conditions, medical equipment rentals, and
workflow information technology solutions. Hill-Rom s comprehensive product and service offerings
are used by health care providers across the health care continuum in hospitals, extended care
facilities and home care settings, to enhance the safety and quality of patient care.

Batesville Casket Company is a leader in the North American death care industry through the sale of
funeral services products, including burial caskets, cremation caskets, containers and urns,
selection room display fixturing and other personalization and memorialization products.

As part of our strategic planning process, Hillenbrand s Board of Directors and senior leadership
recently evaluated a range of strategic alternatives, with input from financial advisors, Citigroup
Corporate and Investment Banking and Goldman Sachs Group. These strategic alternatives included
the continuation of Hillenbrand s current operating structure, the sale of one or both of its
businesses, returning cash to shareholders through an increase in balance sheet leverage, and the
spin-off of or split off of one of its businesses. Having reviewed and fully endorsed the
operating strategies discussed below, management and the Board concluded that separating
Hillenbrand s current operations into two publicly traded companies merits further, more detailed
consideration as a possible means to position Hillenbrand s market-leading health care and funeral
services businesses for sustained growth and value creation.

Industry Trends, Fiscal 2007 Strategy and Other Factors Impacting the Business 

Hillenbrand Industries  goal is to grow organic revenue and operating income by an average of
mid-to-high single digits over the 2007-2009 time frame. Hill-Rom plans to invest significantly in
research and development, sales channel enhancements and low cost region manufacturing and sourcing
initiatives to allow us to protect and grow our core North American acute care businesses, improve
gross margins and revitalize our North American rental business. In addition, we believe there are
new growth opportunities in post-acute care settings, international markets and our emerging
entrepreneurial businesses. Our Batesville Casket strategy is aligned with industry and
demographic trends. We plan to invest selectively to maintain and nurture our current leadership
position with independent funeral directors while exploring new opportunities in less penetrated
segments. For Hillenbrand Industries overall, our fiscal year should yield improved sales growth
while we fund significant, yet targeted, investments in order to realize our growth and margin
expansion potential over the next three years.

Medical Technologies and Related Services 

Industry Trends.  

General Trends.  The medical device industry is diverse and highly competitive. We believe
that over the long term, patient and provider demand for health care products and services will
continue to rise as a result of a number of factors, including an aging population with longer life
expectancies and increasing numbers of sicker patients across all care settings including
hospitals, extended care facilities, and in the home, that have more complex co-existing

31 

Table of Contents   

diseases or conditions such as obesity, pulmonary and vascular complications and wounds. Patients and their
families are becoming increasingly discerning consumers who will demand technologically advanced
products and services in all settings of care. At the same time, health care providers across the
continuum are under continued pressure to control costs by improving efficiency and profitability,
while complying with an increasingly complex and demanding reimbursement and regulatory
environment. These challenges faced by providers will continue due to demographic trends,
increasing numbers of uninsured patients, reimbursement pressures from third-party payors,
continuing nurse and physician shortages, facility capacity constraints, and increasing technology
and supply costs.

Rising Acuities in All Care Settings.  Particularly in the United States and other
developed markets around the world, the health care system is challenged to treat rising incidences
of complex diseases and conditions such as obesity, diabetes, congestive heart failure and
respiratory disease. Patients are being moved through the hospital faster as length of stays
decrease, and we see a progression of sicker patients who are being moved to lower acuity settings
for care. For example, some patients in today s medical and
surgical unit would have been in the intensive
care unit a decade ago. Improved medical technologies will be an integral part of helping
increasingly challenged providers care for these sicker patients with
more complex diseases and conditions.

Migration of Care out of the Hospital.  The trends discussed above should create incentives
to upgrade technologies and migrate services from traditional hospital to alternative lower acuity
settings. In this environment, we believe competition for capital and spending will continue to be
strong; however, we expect expenditures for our types of products and services to remain strong
over the foreseeable future. We also see a significant opportunity to apply our technologies and
know-how in acute care settings to enhance products and services available to patients and
providers in care settings outside of the hospital.

Patient Safety.  In response to the growing understanding and publicity surrounding
preventable medical errors and adverse events, improving patient safety is a top priority among
hospitals in the United States. Patient safety initiatives are beginning to be adopted by extended
care and home care providers as well. Quality indicators surrounding patient safety and clinical
outcome measurements are increasingly being publicized, and improvement of institutional
performance is a matter of focus by many hospital executives and their boards. The pay for
performance initiative by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services aims to better align
reimbursement with improved patient outcomes and the reduction of adverse events. A number of the
top adverse events in United States hospitals can be mitigated in part by Hill-Rom technologies,
processes and services, including bedsores (or pressure ulcers), ventilator-associated pneumonia,
patient falls, deep vein thrombosis and patient entrapment. Hill-Rom is well positioned to benefit
from the emphasis being placed on patient safety due to our strong clinical capabilities and
products and technologies that are designed to assist providers in achieving improved patient
outcomes across all care settings.

Caregiver Safety.  Nursing shortages, work-related injuries, and a variety of other
caregiver issues have focused hospital and health care executives on the need to improve caregiver
safety. Our products and services seek to address these concerns through novel application of
technology, clinical and ergonomic science, and customer feedback. Meaningful competitive
differentiation can be achieved.

Growing Desire Among Developed and Developing Countries to Invest in Health Care.  While
industry growth rates in more mature geographic markets such as western and northern Europe and
Japan have moderated, in many other geographic markets, where the relative spending on health care
is increasing, we are experiencing increasing demand for medical technologies. New hospital
construction and hospital refurbishments have been accelerating in regions such as Latin America,
the Middle East and many parts of Asia. We believe that we
have established the products and resources in these regions that will help to improve the standard
of care available to their citizens and caregivers.

32 

Table of Contents   

Legislative.  On the legislative front, we are continuing to monitor the full
implementation of the Medicare Modernization Act and other recent or proposed legislative and
regulatory developments. Although we believe these developments are largely positive to Hill-Rom
because of favorable hospital reimbursement provisions, all of the implications of these
developments are not yet clear. In addition, increased cost projections associated with Medicare
reform legislation, concerns over the growing federal budget deficit and other factors could
combine to create what we believe to be conditions favorable to Medicare and Medicaid cost
containment measures for the foreseeable future. Further, at the state level, while some easing of
budgetary pressures has been noted, fiscal challenges largely remain with Medicaid expenditures
claiming increasing portions of state budgets. Medicare and Medicaid cuts could dampen health care
spending, including spending on the types of products and services offered by Hill-Rom. Various
provisions within the Deficit Reduction Act, passed by Congress this year and anticipated to take
effect early in 2007, reduce reimbursement for durable medical equipment used in the home under the
Medicare capped rental program. We are currently assessing the potential impact of this
legislation, which we do not anticipate to be material at this time. Finally, we note increased
legislative and regulatory interest in quality-based purchasing, also known as pay-for-performance.
This development has been accompanied by a marked emphasis on eliminating adverse medical events
associated with patient stays as described above.

Strategy.  

Hill-Rom s strategy is aimed at providing patients and those who care for them across all patient
care settings around the world with affordable patient support and related therapy and information
platforms that promote safer and more effective patient care. Management believes substantial
opportunity exists to achieve this strategic value proposition by fully utilizing Hill-Rom s
clinical know-how, global sales and distribution channels, rental service center network, and
strong position and brand in hospital patient support systems. With Hill-Rom s focus across all
care settings, we realigned Hill-Rom s lines of business, effective October 1, 2006, to increase
leadership focus and accountability in each of the acuity settings we serve across the global
continuum of care. In North America, our Acute Care organization focuses on both capital and
rental businesses and workflow information technology solutions in acute care settings and our
Post-Acute Care organization focuses on extended care, home care and the airway clearance
businesses. Our International Division has been expanded to include our surgical accessories
business, as we believe growth opportunities for our surgical products exist in the international
market.

We believe that Hill-Rom has opportunities for growth in all of the care settings and businesses
where we currently compete. We believe that the North America acute care patient support systems
marketplace offers ample opportunity for growth. We plan to maintain our strength in that business
as discussed above in order to grow with the industry. We believe there is substantial opportunity
for Hill-Rom to increase our heretofore relatively low participation level in the North American
post-acute care marketplace and the international marketplace. Finally, we also believe that we
have high growth potential in our smaller, but more rapidly growing, entrepreneurial businesses.

Hill-Rom plans to continue the progress we made during fiscal year 2006 to stabilize share and
gross margin in the low and mid-range of our core frames business, despite continued commodity cost
inflation and competitive pricing pressure, as discussed below under  Progress against Fiscal 2006
Strategic Plan - Medical Technologies and Related Services.  During fiscal year 2007 and over the
next several years Hill-Rom will focus on executing the following strategic imperatives.

33 

Table of Contents   

Fiscal 2007 Strategic Imperatives 

Protect Our Core Business.  In order to protect our North American acute care patient
support systems business, we will continue our progress to increase our competitiveness and stem
share erosion by focusing on the launch of a number of new products as well as extensions of
important core products across the price/feature continuum. We will also augment our selling and
marketing capabilities, focus on sales effectiveness and partner with our customers to help them
improve clinical outcomes by reducing adverse clinical events.

New product development.  We expect the commitment we made in fiscal 2006 to a
better focused and resourced new product development pipeline will result in the
commercialization in fiscal 2007 of several new product launches and extensions of (or
improvements to) important core product lines across the price/feature continuum. During
the first fiscal quarter of 2007 we launched the TotalCare    Bariatric Plus extension, which
is an integrated frame and surface in our capital sales and rental offerings. This product
can accommodate a 500-pound patient, treat advanced wounds and pulmonary complications,
provide low airloss therapy and provide enhanced features for patient ingress and egress.
We also launched Affinity   Four, an extension of our birthing bed with meaningful
enhancements. Later in the fiscal year, we expect to launch new powered transport
technologies, which are particularly important as patient weights increase, and a new
therapeutic mattress for our proprietary TotalCare and VersaCare frames, or for
competitors  frames. We believe that these products will address unique, growing and
underserved patients with more complex and co-existing diseases and conditions that should
have broad application throughout the care continuum. 

Sales force effectiveness.  Our customers have embraced the new North American
sales model implemented during fiscal 2006, which eliminated redundancy and increased
accountability. We have used this model as a foundation to further improve the
effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs within the organization, starting with
selected leadership changes to further increase accountability and execution. We have also
provided funding in fiscal 2007 to expand our North American Acute Care sales force to
facilitate the sale of new products and to provide increased territory coverage for
additional penetration into that market. We will also continue to improve selling and
contracting processes and customer relationship management processes to support gross
margin expansion across our lines of Acute Care capital and rental products. 

Patient Safety Solutions . Hill-Rom is committed to patient safety and the
reduction of adverse events associated with patient stays, such as pressure ulcers,
hospital acquired infections, ventilator acquired pneumonia, patient falls and deep vein
thrombosis. We believe that improving clinical outcomes is best achieved by combining
technologies, people and processes through close alliances with our customers and jointly
developed training tools and protocols. Our commitment is evidenced by the announcement
during the third fiscal quarter that we executed a five-year strategic alliance with
Ascension Health, the largest not for profit independent delivery network in North America.
The objectives of this alliance are to reduce and eventually eliminate certain adverse
events occurring within the patient care environment. The alliance expands a relationship
begun in 2004 in which the organizations worked jointly at various Ascension Health
Ministries to implement new processes and deploy new equipment. Our efforts under this
alliance will initially be focused on the elimination of
pressure ulcers and are expected to expand to other adverse events, including
ventilator-associated pneumonia and patient falls. 

Improve Gross Margins.  In addition to actions taken during fiscal 2006, we took actions to
mitigate the impact of rising raw material and fuel prices, including price increases on certain
products and improving price discipline, continuous improvement, the centralization of the global
supply chain at Hill-Rom to optimize manufacturing operations and purchasing power

34 

Table of Contents   

with suppliers, and increased utilization of low cost region sourcing through our recently opened sourcing office
in China. Additionally, we plan to take the following actions:

Low Cost Region Manufacturing and Sourcing.  As part of our global manufacturing
strategy we entered into a purchase agreement during the first fiscal quarter of fiscal
2007 to acquire a manufacturing facility in Mexico, to which we plan to move a portion of
Hill-Rom s manufacturing capacity for products used in lower acuity care settings and
selected post-acute care settings. Our focus will be on segments for which customers are
demanding more value at lower price points, or products targeted for market opportunities
outside the United States. We expect to begin shipping products from the Mexico facility
by the end of fiscal 2007. In addition, to further reduce our cost structure, we continue
to leverage our Suzhou, China sourcing center to access suppliers of components,
sub-assemblies and finished products throughout the Pacific Rim. 

Product Platforming.  Over the next three years, we intend to expand on our
fiscal 2006 product life cycle management initiatives and standardize our product
architecture by using common sub-assemblies and modules across multiple product platforms.
Initially, we will continue to develop product enhancements under a life cycle management
approach and begin platforming with our initial common sub-assemblies to be made available
commercially in fiscal 2008. 

Revitalize North American Rental Business . In order to increase the profitability of our
rental business and address pricing pressure in this segment due to GPO multi-sourcing actions, we
are taking a number of steps to improve our gross margins, better service our customers and
differentiate our rental offerings through investment in new product development and acquisition of
new products for our rental fleet.

Improve Rental Gross Margins.  During the fourth fiscal quarter and in response
to the anticipated unfavorable annual impact of the GPO affiliation changes discussed
above, we announced the elimination of approximately 140 positions, including approximately
100 employees in the North American rental service organization, amounting to approximately
8 percent of the total service organization staff level, and the rationalization of a
number of our rental product offerings. We began to realize benefits from this
restructuring in the first quarter of 2007 and expect to yield the full $16 million in
annual savings in future years. 

Simplify Customer Interactions.  With the right sized organization and
realignment of sales incentives, we plan to improve selling and contracting processes and
disciplines and drive increased business with our most profitable customers and to increase
customer conversions, intimacy and gross margins. Part of this plan includes improving
efficiency by continuing to embed service personnel within certain customers  facilities. 

We believe most of the rental billing system related issues and many of the related business
process issues have been addressed and we are now focusing our attention on supporting
processes and related activities to increase the overall efficiency and effectiveness of
operating our rental system and to maximize its value to the business.
These initiatives include continued improvements to billing accuracy, user training,
business processes and procedures, system enhancements, equipment management, and expanded
use of handheld devices to increase the efficiency and accuracy of delivery and pick-up. 

We have also increased staffing in certain critical back office areas to allow more focused
sales time by our clinical sales team for critical product lines and key customer accounts.
We have established incentives for new account conversions. As the system  

35 

Table of Contents   

and our processes continue to improve, our clinical sales team has been able to increase its sales activity. 

Finally, our accounts receivable department continues to be focused on the collection of
current and aged receivables and we are adding resources where necessary to improve our
overall collection effort. The increase in the aging of rental receivables encountered as a
result of our earlier billing issues may continue to have an adverse impact on our results
of operations due to increased levels of customer allowances as we resolve those
receivables, which would result in lower rental revenues. 

We are now realizing the benefits from these various initiatives, and we remain optimistic
about the enhanced functionality and reporting that is becoming available from the new
rental business system. 

Invest to Innovate and Refresh Products.  We believe we have under-funded
investment in our therapy rental fleet over the last several years. In order to keep our
fleet current, complete and competitive with products that we can rent at acceptable levels
of profitability and utilization, we plan to invest approximately $60 million in our rental
fleet, which supplies both our acute and extended care customers. 

Develop Our Post-Acute Care Business.  We believe there is substantial opportunity for
Hill-Rom to increase our relatively low participation level in the North American post-acute care
marketplace for patient support systems, surfaces, furniture and accessories. In addition, we
believe we are well positioned in this segment due to the breadth of our sales channels, the
strength of our brand, our clinical capabilities, our service and distribution infrastructure and
our ability to transfer our acute care clinical and product development knowledge to the post-acute
environment.   

Launch a portfolio of extended care and home care products.  During fiscal 2007
we plan to substantially increase the portfolio of products available to extended care and
home care customers. In extended care, we plan to launch a basic platform, augment our
surfaces offering through selected sourcing relationships, and launch a line of furniture
derived from a current Hill-Rom    product line we offer in international markets.
Similarly, in home care we plan to launch a basic frame and a bariatric frame, together
with a basic wound prevention surface, furniture, and accessories to augment our current
limited offering of home care therapy surfaces. We believe that our extensive service and
distribution capabilities will allow us to bypass traditional channels of distribution and
reach the consumers directly. 

Future Innovation and Differentiation.  During fiscal 2008 and 2009, we believe
there are further opportunities to offer products that address growing concerns about
patient safety and clinical outcomes in extended care facilities and in home care settings.
We will also evaluate the opportunity to offer our products directly to consumers and
patients. We believe our low cost region manufacturing and sourcing capabilities, as well
as our extensive service and distribution infrastructure will enable us to offer affordable
and clinically differentiated products that meet the needs of post-acute customers. 

Expand International Business.  We believe that Hill-Rom is under-represented in selected
regions outside of North America relative to the size of our overall business and we believe the
international marketplace for products similar to our current product offerings is growing at rates similar to North
America. To expand our international business, we intend to focus on the following initiatives.

Achieve incremental growth in under penetrated regions and leverage additional
channel capacity.  We believe that the frames and surfaces segments in selected
countries in Latin America, the Middle East and Africa and the Asia Pacific region are
growing rapidly, fueled by economic growth and the demand for better technologies. In 

36 

Table of Contents   

2007, we intend to selectively invest in direct selling resources and establish additional
distribution channels in order to rapidly and profitably penetrate these growing
international geographies. 

Enter the medicalized long term care market in selected European countries.  In
the European Union, the extended care segment is growing rapidly as lower hospital
reimbursement levels are driving the need to more frequently transfer patients out of
higher acuity hospitals into medicalized long term care facilities that care for
chronically ill patients that need lower acuity care. The acute care segment is stable to
shrinking, driven primarily by the impact of Diagnostic Related Groups, or DRG,
reimbursement. As a result, the medicalized long term care segment is the fastest growing
segment in Europe as more acute care patients are absorbed into these settings. DRG
implementation in the European Union has been far reaching, forcing controlled spending by
health care facilities due to lower reimbursement levels. The resulting lower volumes have
contributed to excess European production capacity and increased competition in the acute
care segment. 

In response to the foregoing trends, we are reviewing gaps in our international product
portfolio, including products designed specifically for medicalized long term care. We are
also evaluating product and branding strategies specific to various countries, regions and
segments. We have already launched a new therapy surface in Europe to assist in the
prevention and treatment of pressure ulcers and a new line of furniture to our European
extended care customers, and we intend to address additional portfolio gaps in Europe and
elsewhere internationally through selective introduction of certain U.S products, new
product development and selective acquisitions and strategic relationships, with the
objective of strengthening our position in all acuity settings. 

During fiscal 2007, we plan to enter the medicalized long term care business in Europe
beyond France with derivative products from platforms that we already have. We also plan to
prepare certain North American products for sale internationally and leverage our
substantial European sales channel. 

Execute selective acquisitions.  We believe that Hill-Rom s international
presence in a highly fragmented competitive landscape provides us with opportunities for
selective acquisitions and other opportunities. In the first fiscal quarter of 2007 we
acquired Medicraft, Australia PTY, LTD., a leader in acute and post-acute hospital beds and
furniture in Australia. The acquisition should provide new channels to sell and rent
Hill-Rom therapy and higher acuity products along with existing Medicraft offerings. We
also believe that certain Medicraft products can be adapted for global and price-sensitive
bed market segments. 

Grow our entrepreneurial businesses.  Finally, we will drive growth in our three
entrepreneurial businesses, Workflow Information Technology Solutions, Allen Medical and The Vest ,
which collectively generated approximately $160 million in revenue in fiscal 2006, with targets of
fifteen percent compounded annual growth in revenues and operating income.
We anticipate that all of these businesses will be launching important new products in 2007, and we
are making selective channel investments to support the launch of these products. In addition, we
recently established new leadership in each of those businesses to maximize their entrepreneurial
cultures.

Other Factors Impacting the Business 

GPO Contracts.  The majority of Hill-Rom s North American hospital sales and rentals are
made pursuant to contracts with group purchasing organizations (GPOs). A number of those GPO
contracts came up for renewal during fiscal 2006, and our results confirmed our preliminary
expectations that GPOs are generally moving from sole-source agreements to dual and multi-source
awards.

37 

Table of Contents   

In almost all instances our new or amended contracts negotiated with GPOs in fiscal 2006 are dual
or multi-source and, in some instances, we have not been awarded contracts in specific product
categories, primarily related to rental products. While difficult to predict, these changes will
put additional pressure on our rental revenues. We are taking significant actions with respect to
our rental business, which we expect will limit the future unfavorable annual revenue impact of the
GPO contract changes to approximately $25 million, but there can be no assurance that these actions
will be successful.

To date, the financial impact of these changes on the capital side of our business have not been
significant. We are at various stages of responding to bids and negotiating some additional GPO
agreements that, if awarded, will replace agreements that are set to expire in calendar 2007.
Failure to be included in one or more of these agreements would have a material adverse effect on
the business.

Rental Business.  Hill-Rom s North American rental revenues have been and continue to be
adversely impacted by a number of factors, including the following:

lower competitive pricing; 

the initial effects of the realignment in GPO affiliation mentioned earlier in this section; 

expected declines in the pulmonary and wound areas resulting from increasing purchases
of these products by our customers; 

lower product availability in certain regions or of certain products; and 

rental billing and processing issues associated with the prior year launch of our rental
business system. 

We believe most of the rental billing system issues and many of the related business process issues
have been addressed. However, the difficulties encountered in the launch of this system had an
adverse impact on rental revenues in fiscal 2006 in a variety of ways, including increased customer
allowances for past rental billing issues and the resolution of some related aged receivables,
strained customer relationships, reduced sales time available for our clinical sales force and the
loss of some rental business. While we have made substantial progress with respect to this launch,
some exposure may remain as we continue to address aged receivables.

We recognize the importance of the rental business as a component of our portfolio, as
discussed further above under  Strategy   Revitalize North American Rental Business,  and have
significant initiatives currently underway with respect to this business. Should our initiatives
be unsuccessful, rental revenues could continue to decline and our results of operations could be
materially adversely impacted.

Raw Material Costs.  Prices of certain raw materials, including mattress foam,
plastic, fuel and petroleum-based products in particular, and fuel related delivery costs have
continued to rise; and we expect metal, foam and plastic prices to rise further in fiscal 2007. While continued
increases could have a material negative effect on our future profitability, we have taken actions
and have plans in place to at least partially mitigate the impact of these inflationary increases,
as discussed under  Item 1   Business   Raw materials. 

Sales Timing.  Our sales and profitability have historically been disproportionately
weighted toward the latter part of each quarter and generally weighted toward the latter part of
each fiscal year. This weighting is due to a combination of sales incentives, which influence
certain customers to accelerate purchases otherwise planned for future periods, compensation
practices and customer capital equipment buying patterns. However, there is no assurance that
these patterns will continue in the future.

38 

Table of Contents   

Funeral Services 

Trends.  

Demand for Burial Caskets.  While it is impossible to predict deaths on a month-to-month or
even a year-to-year basis, we are experiencing a gradual and steady decline in demand for burial
caskets in North America as the result of what appears to be flat to slightly declining overall
deaths and a continued gradual increase in the rate of cremations. As a result of these trends,
casket manufacturers and distributors are facing economic and volume pressures in an industry with
an estimated 100 percent excess in domestic production capacity, compounded by a continuing but
relatively modest growth in casket imports from foreign manufacturers. The future effects of baby
boomers on death trends and casketed deaths is uncertain.

Unlike in many years, in fiscal 2006 we did not experience significant indications or evidence of
widespread pneumonia or influenza during the winter months when a seasonal occurrence generally
favorably impacts Batesville Casket s and, to a lesser extent, Hill-Rom s rental business. The
timing and severity of any such outbreak varies from year-to-year as was the case in fiscal 2005
when the impacts of pneumonia and influenza arrived later than normal and the influenza strain was
much less virulent than that in fiscal 2004. As such, the absence of an outbreak this year
unfavorably affected our revenues and profitability.

Competition.  The foregoing pressures have resulted in increasing discounts by casket
manufacturers and distributors. As customers keep little inventory and demand faster service and
increased personalization, service level requirements, and resulting costs are increasing. The
costs of delivery have increased as well with higher fuel prices resulting in increased costs per
unit. Many customers are also purchasing fewer premium metal products in favor of other less
expensive materials as one way of reducing prices. While some competitors must use inventory to
meet growing service demands, Batesville Casket s high velocity distribution network allows us to
operate with substantially lower inventory levels than these competitors.

Industry Consolidation.  The foregoing trends are leading casket manufacturers to explore
strategic alternatives, including consolidations   as evidenced by our recently completed
consolidation of wood casket manufacturing capacity   and acquisitions and partnerships throughout
the industry   as evidenced by our previously announced agreement to acquire Yorktowne, our
acquisition of one small distributor in the second quarter of fiscal 2006, and the anticipated
combination of our two largest funeral home national accounts, SCI and Alderwoods.

Raw Material Costs.  Like Hill-Rom, Batesville Casket and the funeral service industry
have been and will continue to be adversely affected by increased costs experienced in recent years
for raw materials. The primary raw materials used in Batesville Casket products include steel,
wood, red metals (i.e., copper and bronze), plastics, chemicals and fuel. With high fuel costs, we
continue to experience fuel surcharges on many raw materials and services.

Strategy.  

Batesville Casket s strategy for fiscal 2007 and beyond remains centered on defending and growing
our core business of selling Batesville    branded burial caskets and cremation products while
investing in opportunities outside but closely related to our core. Important elements of this
two-pronged strategy include the following:

Protect and grow the core business.  We will seek to protect and grow Batesville Casket s
core business through a combination of improved sales force effectiveness, streamlined processes to
drive improved quality and productivity, increased customer focus, and continued pursuit of
strategic acquisitions within the casket industry.

39 

Table of Contents   

Improved sales force effectiveness.  A key component of this initiative is a
renewed focus on funeral product merchandising to drive increased sales and mix of
products. We also plan to grow with regional funeral home consolidators by creating a
sales team focused on serving those customers whose business spans multiple sales
territories. 

Streamlined processes.  A hallmark of our corporate culture for many years has
been our focus on and use of Continuous Improvement as a tool to improve quality and
productivity while at the same time reducing costs. We are committed to achieving further
improvements, particularly in our manufacturing and logistics areas. 

Increased customer focus.  Begun as a specific initiative last year, we plan to
continue to emphasize this point as a key strategic principle. Our concierge office
provides a ready contact point for customers, and we constantly emphasize a
customer-centric approach throughout our entire business enterprise. 

Continued pursuit of strategic acquisitions within the casket industry.  This
initiative, as evidenced by our ongoing plans to acquire Yorktowne Casket and our completed
acquisition of a small distributor in fiscal 2006, will continue in fiscal 2007 and beyond.
Because of our manufacturing and distribution capabilities, we believe we are uniquely
positioned to take advantage of strategic acquisition opportunities as they arise. 

Invest in other opportunities.  Our investment activities outside what has long been
considered our  core  business have and will continue to include the following initiatives.

Sale of NorthStar  Products.  We plan to increase significantly sales of
NorthStar  caskets and parts, comprising a differentiated full product line utilizing
none of the Batesville Casket proprietary features, to independent manufacturers and
distributors. These products are sold outside the BCC sales force by a small,
dedicated, independent team of sales engineers. To execute on this key initiative we
invested in tooling and assigned dedicated resources to move these products quickly
through the new product development pipeline and into production. Sales in this area,
while relatively modest in 2006, create a growth opportunity for fiscal 2007 and beyond. 

Exploration of relationships with adjacent businesses.  We intend to explore
acquisitions of or relationships with other businesses adjacent to the casket and
cremation industries in which we can utilize our core competencies around manufacturing
and distribution to enhance shareholder value. 

Progress against Fiscal 2006 Strategic Plan 

During fiscal year 2006 Hill-Rom made significant progress on previously disclosed turn around
initiatives to address share and gross margin erosion. For example, during fiscal 2006, we
completed the combination of our Hill-Rom and corporate organizations, which decreased operating
expenses, implemented a customer centric sales and service model, streamlined the business to
reduce cost and complexity, and strengthened our core businesses in the areas of product planning,
development and sourcing processes.

Our commitment to a better focused and resourced new product development pipeline resulted in our
launch of a number of new products as well as extensions and refreshes of important core products
across the price/feature continuum, demonstrating Hill-Rom s commitment to building competitiveness
in lower acuity settings worldwide.

Likewise, Batesville Casket realized its fiscal 2006 strategic initiatives, including the retention
of national account customers, growth in revenue from independent funeral homes, the consolidation
of wood manufacturing and an increase in revenue through its distributor supply strategy. With
respect to retention of national account customers, Batesville Casket completed

40 

Table of Contents   

renegotiations of new supply agreements with Stewart Enterprises, Inc. and Carriage Services, Inc. In October of
2006, we completed negotiation of a new supply agreement with our largest customer, SCI.
The announced completion of the combination of SCI and our second largest customer,
Alderwoods will bring purchases by both organizations under the same agreement. While the
agreement does not impose specific purchase requirements on the combined entity, we anticipate that
SCI will continue to buy substantially all its products from us for the foreseeable future.
However, we likely will lose some business as this new combined entity divests itself of certain
overlapping properties, assuming some of these properties are purchased by funeral homes or other
entities that currently do not purchase products from us. The result of bringing Alderwoods
purchases under the SCI agreement and their divestiture of numerous properties could have a
material adverse effect on our financial results for 2007.

Batesville Casket s sales to independent funeral homes showed a slight increase in 2006 despite the
gradual and slightly declining demand for burial caskets due primarily to Batesville Casket s
strong brand and the various sales and service tools implemented over the past several years,
including the two mobile tour centers, increased frequency and flexibility of product deliveries,
and the ongoing focus on a simplified merchandising system.

We completed our wood plant consolidation in the second quarter of fiscal 2006, finalizing
production in our New Hampshire facility and transitioning those products to our plant in
Batesville, Mississippi. We successfully integrated the operations of these two plants and were
able to supply wood products to our funeral home customers with minimal interruption during the
consolidation period.

Another of Batesville Casket s key initiatives in 2006 was continuing to capitalize on
opportunities to form business relationships with independent distributors of caskets. These
relationships could involve acquisitions, as evidenced by our previously announced plans to acquire
Yorktowne, or simply the provision of funeral products for resale by these distributors. An
essential part of this strategy is developing a separate and unique line of products to offer
through the distributor channel. Proprietary features and offerings are restricted to the
Batesville    brand, which are only available through our sales force. Executing on this
key initiative has required Batesville Casket to make some tooling investments and to assign
dedicated resources to move these products quickly through the new product development pipeline and
into production. Sales in this area, while relatively modest to date, create a growth opportunity
for fiscal 2007 and beyond.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Note regarding discontinued operations: The operating results for the divestitures completed in
2004 (the infant care and piped-medical gas businesses of Hill-Rom as well as the pre-need
insurance business of Forethought) are presented as discontinued operations within our Statements
of Consolidated Income (Loss). Under this presentation, the revenues and variable costs associated
with these businesses are removed from the individual line items comprising the Statements of
Consolidated Income (Loss) and presented in a separate section entitled,  Discontinued Operations .
In addition, fixed costs related to the businesses that were eliminated with the divestitures are
also included as a component of discontinued operations. The results of discontinued operations
are not necessarily indicative of the results of the businesses if they had been operated on a
stand-alone basis. Except as otherwise indicated, all discussions and presentations of financial
results within Management s Discussion and Analysis are presented based on our results from
continuing operations.

41 

Table of Contents   

The following table presents comparative operating results for the years discussed within
Management s Discussion and Analysis:

The financial results presented herein include a number of items which impact the
comparability between periods. A summary of these items is as follows:

42 

Table of Contents   

Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2006 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended
September 30, 2005 

In the following section, we provide a high level summary of our consolidated results of operations
for fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005. Immediately following this summary section is a more
comprehensive discussion of revenues and divisional income by operating segment.

Summary 

Consolidated revenues of $1,962.9 million in 2006 increased $24.8 million, or 1.3 percent, compared
to $1,938.1 million in 2005. The increase was driven by Health Care sales revenues, which
increased $51.7 million, or 6.4 percent. This strength in Health Care sales was primarily related
to higher volumes and to a lesser extent favorable price when compared to the prior year. Volume
strength was led by VersaCare  and Workflow Information Technology Solutions products in North
America, as well as by improved international revenues, especially in the Latin America and Asia
Pacific regions. The favorability in price for the year was predominantly related to patient
platforms, led by our VersaCare  bed platform. In fiscal 2007, we expect global Health Care sales
to remain strong, with growth projected to exceed five percent.

Health Care rental revenues were down $42.1 million, or 9.0 percent, compared to the prior year as
a result of lower volumes, increased customer allowances and lower competitive pricing. The lower
volume and increased customer allowances, for which additional accounts receivable reserves of
$17.7 million were provided during the year, are partially reflective of the rental billing and
processing issues associated with the prior year launch of our rental business system and the
related business processes. In addition to the increased customer allowances associated with the
effects of past rental billing and processing issues and the resolution of some related aged
receivables , rental revenues were also unfavorably impacted by a number of other factors. Earlier
in the year, our rental billing and processing issues contributed to strained customer
relationships and a reduction of sales time available to our clinical sales force, resulting in the
loss of some business and reduced account conversions. Further, we are also beginning to feel the
initial unfavorable impacts of current year changes in GPO affiliations. Additional unfavorable
rental volume effects are related directly to expected declines in the pulmonary and wound areas of
our rental business resulting from increasing purchases by customers of these products, lower
product availability in certain regions or of certain products and the absence of any meaningful
seasonal pneumonia and influenza outbreak in the current fiscal year. As we look to 2007, our
rental business will continue to be a challenge. We recognize the importance of this business as a component of our portfolio and have
significant initiatives underway to revitalize this business. While we expect rental revenues to
be flat to up slightly, much of this momentum will occur later in the year as our initiatives begin
to take hold.

Funeral Services continued to experience declining volumes due to a lower number of deaths and
higher cremations along with unfavorable product line mix. However, favorable net price
realization and cremation and distributor volume growth drove a year-over-year increase of $15.2
million, or 2.3 percent, in revenues. Funeral Service revenues are expected to show modest growth
in 2007 in response to numerous initiatives.

Consolidated gross profit increased $9.3 million, or 1.1 percent, over the prior year period,
driven once again by Health Care sales and to a lesser extent Funeral Services sales. This
favorability was partially offset by a large decline in Health Care rental gross profit. On a
consolidated basis, gross profit as a percentage of revenues was 43.3 percent in 2006 compared to
43.4 percent in 2005. Health Care sales gross profit as a percentage of revenues increased 130
basis points due to the overall higher volumes outlined above, favorable pricing and the benefits
of restructuring actions taken in the prior year at our French manufacturing facility and various
ongoing sourcing initiatives. Funeral Services gross profit improved 120 basis points as a
percentage of revenues, despite the continued gradual shift in product mix from

43 

Table of Contents   

metal to wood caskets and generally to lower-end products that have lower margins, as favorable net price
realization, sourcing benefits and productivity improvements more than offset these unfavorable
impacts. In Health Care rentals, the decline in gross profit of 340 basis points was largely the
result of lower revenues, which could only be partially offset by lower rental costs. With the
generally fixed cost nature of the field service network, only a limited amount of the revenue
shortfall could be offset with lower costs during 2006. In fiscal 2007, consolidated gross margin
rates are expected to be flat to up slightly, despite anticipated pressure on commodity pricing in
2007. We will look to offset these pressures with continued supply chain initiatives, improved
price realization, productivity improvements and benefits from our low-cost region sourcing and
manufacturing initiatives.

Other operating expenses decreased 4.8 percent to $529.1 million in 2006 compared to $555.7 million
in 2005. Other operating expenses consist of selling, marketing, research and development and
general administrative costs. The lower expense levels were due in part to lower litigation costs
associated with defending antitrust lawsuits, which decreased $12.1 million in 2006 (See Note 17 of
the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). Realized compensation and benefit
savings associated with the 2005 Hill-Rom business realignment also contributed heavily to the
lower operating expenses. Partially offsetting this decrease was incentive compensation, which
amounted to $24.8 million in 2006 compared to less than $1 million in 2005 based on improved
operating performance in 2006. Operating expenses have also increased in 2006 as a result of
increased Health Care sales commissions on higher revenues and general salary inflation. As a
percentage of revenues, operating expenses decreased to 26.9 percent in 2006 from 28.7 percent in
2005 as a result of the benefits of the prior year business realignment program and the additional
revenues. In 2007, other operating expenses are expected to increase significantly from 2006
levels as we make sizeable investments in new product development, our rental fleet and our sales
and marketing channels to position us for accelerated growth in future periods.

Operating results in 2005 included a pre-tax charge of $358.6 million resulting from our settlement
of the Spartanburg antitrust litigation. The fourth quarter fiscal 2005 charge covers the
settlement, along with certain legal and other costs related to the settlement. In fiscal 2006, we
had a reversal of $2.3 million of the previously accrued legal costs.

Special charges were also recognized in both the 2006 and 2005 reporting periods. In 2006, net
special charges of $5.4 million were recognized. These charges were primarily composed of the
continuation of voluntary restructuring actions at Hill-Rom s French manufacturing
facility initiated in the prior year, along with costs of $4.2 million incurred in the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2006, primarily related to the alignment of our field service organization
with our current lower rental revenue levels and the rationalization of certain rental product
offerings which are no longer strategically necessary. These combined charges were partially
offset by the reversal of $1.3 million of excess restructuring reserves from the prior year
special charge which were no longer considered necessary.

In 2005, a special charge of $36.3 million was recorded related to multiple initiatives. In the
fourth quarter we recognized a net special charge of $30.8 million following the announcement of
a change in our organizational structure and the combination of our Corporate and Hill-Rom
organizations. This was accompanied by a small reduction in force at Batesville Casket, with a
cost of $0.8 million. During 2005, special charges also included a charge of $1.4 million for
severance and benefit related costs resulting from the closure of Batesville Casket s Nashua,
New Hampshire production facility and its consolidation into its Batesville, Mississippi plant.
These 2005 charges were partially offset by a $0.8 million reversal of excess restructuring
reserves from a prior 2004 action. In addition, a charge of $2.4 million was recorded in 2005
for future payments and other compensation related to the retirement of our former Chief
Executive Officer. We also recognized an impairment charge of $1.7 million related to the Vail
enclosure beds in the Health Care rental fleet following the shutdown by the manufacturer of its
operations.

44 

Table of Contents   

Other Income and Expense

Interest expense increased $2.9 million to $21.3 million in 2006 compared to $18.4 million in 2005
due to the increase in short-term interest rates and the negative effect of such increases on our
interest rate swaps on long-term debt. Investment income increased $28.7 million due to
significant limited partnership investment income and realized capital gains in 2006, as well as
the impairment of a strategic investment in fiscal 2005 in the amount of $8.7 million. The level
of capital gain activity that occurred in fiscal 2006 is not expected to recur in fiscal 2007.

Income tax expense of $117.5 million was recognized in 2006 compared to an income tax benefit of
$19.6 million in 2005. The effective tax rate for 2006 approximated 34.7 percent while in 2005 the
tax rate approximated 16.9 percent. The rate in the current year has been favorably impacted by a
number of discrete benefits recognized in fiscal 2006. These benefits include a release of
valuation allowance resulting from the recognition of sizeable capital gains in 2006 on the sale of
certain securities, favorable audit adjustments and amended returns, a deferred tax benefit
reflecting favorable state tax law changes and the release of valuation allowance associated with
foreign tax credits and state operating losses now expected to be utilized. These discrete tax
items resulted in the recognition of tax benefits of $9.4 million on a year-to-date basis, thus
reducing our year-to-date effective tax rate by approximately 2.7 percent. The fiscal 2005
effective tax rate was impacted by the reversal of the prior year deferred tax asset established
upon adoption of a strategy to restructure the French operations. When this strategy was abandoned
in fiscal 2005, the deferred tax asset of $16.0 million had to be reversed. In addition, the 2005
effective tax rate was impacted by the inability to recognize tax benefits for the French portion
of the fourth quarter restructuring action, the impairment of a strategic investment and a reduced
state tax benefit associated with the Spartanburg litigation settlement accrual. Tax benefits were
not recognized relative to these items based upon existing limitations on the utilization of net
operating and capital losses.

We recognized income from continuing operations in 2006 of $221.5 million, or $3.60 per diluted
share, compared to a loss of $96.3 million, or $1.56 per diluted share in 2005. The loss
recognized in 2005 related primarily to the litigation charge, but was also impacted by the lower
gross profit, higher operating expenses and increased special charges experienced in fiscal 2005.
The special items, outlined on page 42, favorably impacted income from continuing operations by
$1.9 million ($3.2 million after tax) in 2006, but adversely impacted income from continuing
operations by $426.7 million ($276.4 million after tax) in 2005. Income from continuing operations
was also adversely affected by the $16.0 million write-off of a deferred tax asset in 2005 as
discussed in the previous paragraph.

The sale of Forethought Federal Savings Bank ( FFSB ) was completed on January 3, 2006. Prior to
the date of sale, the operations of FFSB were presented as a discontinued operation within our
Statements of Consolidated Income (Loss). We received an additional cash payment of $6.5 million,
and recognized an after-tax loss on the final disposition of FFSB of $0.6 million in the first
quarter of fiscal 2006.

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144,  Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,  we have reported discontinued operations for all
years presented. The results from discontinued operations reflect a net loss of $0.3 million in
2006 compared to net income of $2.2 million in the prior year. The income in 2005 includes $0.9
million of income from Forethought Federal Savings Bank, with the remaining amount due primarily to
tax benefits resulting from the income tax provision to return analysis

45 

Table of Contents   

related to previous divestitures. See Note 3 to Consolidated Financial Statements for further
details.

Business Segment Results of Operations 

The following table reconciles segment divisional income to income (loss) from continuing
operations before income taxes.

North America 

For the year, North America revenues increased $3.2 million, or 0.3 percent, compared to the prior
year. Sales revenues reflected an increase of $43.3 million on strong third and fourth quarter
performance. The increase in sales revenues was driven by higher volume and to a lesser extent
favorable price. The VersaCare  and CareAssist  bed platforms continued to show strength with
revenues up $40.1 million compared to the prior year, more than offsetting the discontinued
Advanta    bed frame line, which declined $10.4 million. Workflow Information Technology
Solutions products also showed strength, up $13.2 million compared to 2005, primarily as a result
of the strong third and fourth quarters. Despite strong fourth quarter sales results,
architectural product revenues have continued to come under pressure as a result of strong
competition and an aging product line. The recently introduced intensive care architectural arm
platform called the Latitude    system has been well received and should facilitate
improvements in architectural product revenues in future periods. A decline in North American
rental revenue of $40.1 million offset much of the growth in the sales
revenues and was driven by lower volume. The decline in rental volume was evident in all major
product categories. As previously discussed, the overall lower rental volumes are related to a
number of

46 

Table of Contents   

factors, including the loss of some business and reduced account conversions. These
unfavorable developments are directly associated with strained customer relationships and reduced
sales time for our clinical sales force resulting from past rental billing and processing issues.
Other items negatively impacting rental volumes include the initial impact of current year changes
in GPO affiliations, expected declines in the pulmonary and wound product areas resulting from
increasing capital purchases by customers of these products and increased customer allowances and
related collection reserves. Reserves for such allowances, were increased by $12.7 million in
2006.

Divisional income for North America decreased $14.5 million in 2006 compared to the prior year
period. Most of this decline was at the gross profit level, which decreased $19.9 million and
230 basis points as a percentage of revenues. Sales gross profit increased $12.4 million primarily
on higher volume and a list price increase implemented in the second quarter, but declined 170
basis points as a percentage of revenues due to a lower mix of product sales and higher warranty
costs. Rental gross profit, which is significantly impacted by volumes due to the generally fixed
cost nature of the field service network, decreased $32.3 million, or 460 basis points as a
percentage of revenues, as lower costs from restructuring initiatives were not sufficient to cover
the significant shortfall in rental revenues. North America operating expenses were $5.4 million
lower than in 2005 led by rental field sales costs, which were down $12.3 million as a result of
various restructuring efforts, and decreased marketing expenses. However, variable selling
expenses and sales commissions were up on the higher reported sales while other compensation costs
were also up due to general inflation and higher incentive compensation, partially offsetting the
favorability in operating expenses cited earlier.

International 

International revenues increased $7.2 million, or 3.4 percent, in 2006 compared to the prior year
period, net of the unfavorable impact of exchange of $5.9 million. At constant currency rates the
increase compared to 2005 was $13.1 million, or 6.2 percent. Sales revenues reflected an increase
of $5.2 million and rental revenues were higher by $2.0 million, both of which were driven by
volume. The TotalCare  bed platform has shown considerable strength during the year, and
VersaCare , BasicCare  and Affinity  bed frames have also shown significant increases over prior
year. In addition, we foresee a significant opportunity in the European mid and low acuity bed
frame segment and have responded with the introduction of the new AvantGuard  800 bed frame, which
has begun to generate revenues and which we anticipate achieving significant volumes in the future.
In other product lines, furniture, therapy surfaces and revenues related to the sale of services
and spare parts also increased significantly compared to the prior year period. Regionally, the
year-over-year improvement in total revenue is in large part the result of strong year-over-year
performance in Latin America, Asia and the Middle East, partially offset by lower revenues in
Europe.

Divisional income for International increased $2.5 million, or 5.4 percent, compared to the prior
year period, net of an unfavorable exchange impact of $1.1 million. At constant currency rates the
increase compared to 2005 was $3.6 million, or 7.9 percent. Most of this improvement was driven
by increased revenues on higher-end patient platform products and related improvements in gross
profit, which increased $6.6 million and 160 basis points as a percentage of revenues. Sales gross
profit increased $4.7 million and 140 basis points as a percentage of revenues due to higher
volumes, despite the unfavorable impact of exchange rates of $1.7 million. Rental gross profit
increased $1.9 million and 210 basis points as a percentage of revenues on higher volume and good
cost containment within our field service organization, despite the unfavorable impact of exchange
rates of $0.6 million. Operating expenses were higher by $4.1 million, or 9.5 percent, net of
favorable exchange impacts of
$1.2 million. The increase in operating expenses was primarily due to increases in personnel costs
driven by wage and benefit inflation and the funding of incentive compensation.

47 

Table of Contents   

Home Care and Surgical 

Home Care and Surgical revenues were down slightly to $117.0 million for 2006 compared to $117.8
million in the 2005 comparable period. Sales revenues increased by $3.2 million, primarily due to
the performance of our surgical accessories business, including the impact of recent product
introductions in the area of spinal surgery along with increased penetration of the Vest  products
into the acute care setting. Rental revenues were lower by $4.0 million, primarily as a result of
year-to-date reserve adjustments for claims allowances of $5.0 million related primarily to
difficulties encountered with the prior year launch of our rental billing system and the related
business processes.

In 2006, Home Care and Surgical divisional income decreased $4.8 million from the prior year. The
decline was due primarily to lower rental gross profit of $6.2 million associated with 2006 reserve
adjustments for claims allowances and increased operating expenses of $0.6 million due to
inflationary pressures and resource requirements. The lower rental gross profit was partially
offset by favorable sales gross profit of $2.0 million on the higher revenues.

Batesville Casket 

Batesville Casket revenues increased $15.2 million, or 2.3 percent, in 2006 from the prior year.
The results were favorably impacted by an increase in net price realization of $28.5 million, which
was partially offset by both lower volume of $6.0 million and unfavorable product mix of $7.3
million. The volume decline was due in part to the absence of a seasonal outbreak of pneumonia and
influenza, which negatively impacted sales during the first half of the year, as well as the
continued gradual increase in cremations, while the unfavorable product mix resulted from relative
increases in our sales of lower-end metal and veneer products.

Batesville Casket divisional income increased $9.6 million, or 5.3 percent, in 2006 compared to the
prior year. The results were favorably impacted by improved net price realization discussed above
and gains of $2.5 million related to the sale of facilities and $1.3 million related to the
settlement of casualty insurance claims. Material purchase improvements compared to the prior year
were realized with steel but were offset by increased costs for zinc, chemicals, plastics and red
metals along with the impact of higher fuel prices. The general
product mix shift to lower margin units, increased distribution costs
as we extended our delivery service offerings, and the decline in
burial volume negatively impacted
gross profit. Upon consideration of all these factors, Batesville Casket gross profit as a
percentage of revenues was slightly favorable for 2006 when compared to the prior year. Other
operating expenses were up $4.1 million primarily due to higher costs related to antitrust legal
expenses and incentive compensation.

48 

Table of Contents   

Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2005 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2004 

In the following section, we provide a high level summary of our consolidated results of operations
for fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004. Immediately following this summary section is a more
comprehensive discussion of revenues, gross profit and operating profit or loss by operating
company, consistent with the manner of presentation in our fiscal 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
This information has not been revised to reflect our new reporting structure in fiscal 2006 as it
was determined to be impracticable to do so.

Summary 

Consolidated revenues of $1,938.1 million in 2005 increased $108.8 million, or 5.9 percent,
compared to $1,829.3 million in 2004. The majority of the increase was within Health Care sales
revenues, which increased $74.0 million. Health Care sales experienced increasing volumes
following the 2004 product transitions associated with the introduction of our VersaCare    and
CareAssist  platforms, but continued pricing pressure partially offset the effect on revenues.
Health Care rental revenues increased $15.7 million due to the 2004 acquisition of Mediq, which
increased revenues by $40.2 million with the inclusion of four additional months in fiscal 2005
based on its January 2004 acquisition date. Funeral Services continued to experience declining
volumes due to a lower death rate and higher cremations along with unfavorable product line mix.
However, favorable net price realization and cremation, distributor and product accessory growth
drove the year-over-year increase of $19.1 million in revenues.

Consolidated gross profit decreased $14.4 million or 1.7 percent over the prior year period, driven
by Health Care rentals. As a percentage of total revenues, consolidated gross profit margins of
43.4 percent in 2005 decreased from 46.7 percent in 2004. The lower gross margin as a percent of
revenues was due to pricing pressures at Hill-Rom in both the sales and rental businesses, lower
volumes at Batesville Casket and in Hill-Rom s rental products, lower margin rates of the acquired
Mediq    product lines and increased raw material and rental field service costs.

Other operating expenses increased 5.1 percent to $555.7 million in 2005 compared to $528.9 million
in 2004. Other operating expenses consist of selling, marketing, research and development and
general administrative costs. The higher expense levels were largely due to litigation costs
associated with defending antitrust lawsuits, which increased $23.2 million in 2005 (See Note 17 of
the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). The higher expense levels were also
due to the acquisitions of ARI, Mediq and NaviCare, which added operating expenses of approximately
$8 million based on the inclusion of these acquisitions for a full year in fiscal 2005.
Additionally, we experienced higher health care and benefit costs of $4.0 million for 2005, as well
as salary inflation. Operating expenses have also increased in 2005 as a result of increased
Health Care sales commissions on higher revenues. These increases were partially offset by
realized compensation and benefit savings associated with the 2004 Hill-Rom business realignment.
As a percentage of revenues, operating expenses decreased to 28.7 percent in 2005 from 28.9 percent
in 2004 as a result of the additional revenues, synergies from acquired companies and the benefits
of the prior year business realignment program.

Operating results in 2005 included a pre-tax charge of $358.6 million resulting from our settlement
of the Spartanburg antitrust litigation. The fourth quarter fiscal 2005 charge covers the
settlement, along with certain legal and other costs related to the settlement.

Special charges were also recognized in both the 2005 and 2004 reporting periods. In 2005, a
special charge of $36.3 million was recorded related to multiple initiatives. In the
fourth quarter we recognized a net special charge of $30.8 million following the announcement of
a change in our organizational structure intended to simplify Corporate and Hill-Rom and to

49 

Table of Contents   

support Hill-Rom s strategy to focus on its core frames, support surfaces and services
businesses. This was accompanied by a small reduction in force at Batesville Casket, with a
projected cost of $0.8 million. During 2005, special charges included a charge of $1.4 million
for severance and benefit related costs resulting from the closure of Batesville Casket s
Nashua, New Hampshire production facility and its consolidation into its Batesville, Mississippi
plant. These charges were partially offset by a $0.8 million reversal of excess restructuring
reserves from the 2004 action. In addition, a charge of $2.4 million was recorded for future
payments and other compensation related to the retirement of our former Chief Executive Officer.
We also recognized an impairment charge of $1.7 million related to the Vail enclosure beds in
the Health Care rental fleet following the shutdown by the manufacturer of its operations. In
2004, a net special charge of $5.5 million was recorded related to restructuring charges at
Hill-Rom and Corporate.

Other Income and Expense

Interest expense increased $3.2 million to $18.4 million in 2005 compared to $15.2 million in 2004
due to the change in average debt levels from debt actions taken during the 2004 fiscal year. We
repurchased $47.3 million of long-term debt in the third quarter of 2004, but in July 2004, we
issued $250.0 million of 4.5 percent senior notes related to the long-term financing of the Mediq
acquisition, which resulted in an increase in overall debt outstanding. Investment income
increased $1.9 million due to interest accrued and discount accretion on the seller financing and
equity instruments related to the divestiture of Forethought, which were outstanding for all of
2005 compared to only three months of 2004. Partially offsetting this increase was an impairment
of a strategic investment in fiscal 2005 in the amount of $8.7 million, in contrast to a realized
gain of $4.2 million related to the sale of an investment in 2004. The 2004 charge for the
extinguishment of debt of $6.4 million was associated with the repurchase of high coupon debt prior
to its maturity outlined above. Other expenses decreased $1.8 million in 2005 compared to the
prior year.

An income tax benefit of $19.6 million was recognized in 2005 compared to income tax expense of
$119.6 million in 2004. The effective tax rate for 2005 approximated 16.9 percent while in 2004
the tax rate approximated 38.9 percent. The fiscal 2005 effective tax rate was impacted by the
reversal of the prior year deferred tax asset established upon adoption of a strategy to
restructure the French operations. When this strategy was abandoned in fiscal 2005, the deferred
tax asset of $16.0 million had to be reversed. In addition, the effective tax rate was also
impacted by the inability to recognize tax benefits for the French portion of the fourth quarter
2005 restructuring action, the impairment of a strategic investment and a reduced state tax benefit
associated with the Spartanburg litigation settlement accrual. Tax benefits were not recognized
relative to these charges based upon existing limitations on the utilization of net operating and
capital losses. The higher than normal rate in 2004 resulted in part from the establishment of
valuation allowances on deferred tax assets due to both continued losses in France and capital
losses realized from business divestitures. This increase was also due to additional accruals
related to audit activity by the Internal Revenue Service and various states. These negative
impacts were partially offset with the benefit from
a strategy to restructure the French operations and the recognition of a related deferred tax asset
of $16.0 million, as alluded to above.

We recognized a loss from continuing operations in 2005 of $96.3 million, or $1.56 per diluted
share, compared to income of $188.2 million, or $3.00 per diluted share in 2004. The loss
recognized in 2005 related to the litigation charge, but was also impacted by lower margins,

50 

Table of Contents   

higher operating expenses and increased special charges experienced in fiscal 2005. Considering the
effect of the special items outlined on page 42, income from continuing operations was adversely
impacted by $426.7 million ($276.4 million after tax) in 2005 and $9.6 million ($7.0 million after
tax) in 2004. Income from continuing operations was also adversely affected by the $16.0 million
write-off of a deferred tax asset in 2005 and benefited from the recognition of a deferred tax
asset of $16.0 in 2004 as discussed in the previous paragraph.

In February 2004, we entered into a definitive agreement for the sale of Forethought. At that time
an impairment on discontinued operations of $95.8 million, net of a $33.2 million income tax
benefit, was recorded based on the terms of the transaction. With the subsequent completion of the
sale in the fourth quarter, the net loss was adjusted to $88.6 million. The lower loss was the
result of closing adjustments associated primarily with an increase in proceeds related to an
increase in the statutory adjusted book value of Forethought, partially offset by additional
acquisition costs. In September 2003, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell the
piped-medical gas business of Hill-Rom. Also in September 2003, we announced an agreement to sell
the Air-Shields infant care business of Hill-Rom. The sale of the piped-medical gas business
closed in October 2003 while the sale of the infant care business closed in the third quarter of
fiscal 2004. Net gains were recognized on the divestitures of both businesses in the combined
amount of $18.3 million. The sale of Forethought Federal Savings Bank was completed in fiscal 2006
and thus, it was still reflected as a discontinued operation for fiscal 2005 and as of September
30, 2005.

As a result of these divestitures, and in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets , we have
reported these businesses as discontinued operations for all years presented. The results from
discontinued operations reflect net income of $2.2 million in 2005 compared to a net loss of $45.0
million in 2004. The income in 2005 includes $0.9 million of income from Forethought Federal
Savings Bank, with the remaining amount due primarily to tax benefits resulting from the income tax
provision to return analysis related to previous divestitures. The net loss in 2004 included the
$88.6 million loss (net-of-tax) on impairment of discontinued operations related to Forethought,
partially offset by the $18.3 million in gains (net-of-tax) recognized on the dispositions of
Hill-Rom s piped-medical gas and infant care businesses. The loss was further offset by income
from operations at Forethought of $21.6 million (net-of-tax), which increased from the prior year
due to an improvement in net capital gains and losses recognized at Forethought, along with income
from operations for the piped-medical gas and infant care businesses of a combined $3.7 million
(net-of-tax). See Note 3 to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

51 

Table of Contents   

Operating Company Results of Operations 

Health Care 

Health Care Sales 

Health Care sales revenues increased $74.0 million in 2005 compared to 2004. In Americas/Asia
Pacific, revenues were higher by $62.8 million, driven by the impact of increased volumes of $85.0
million, partially offset by unfavorable pricing of $22.2 million. EMEA revenues increased $11.2
million due to favorable effects of exchange rates of $6.4 million and higher volumes.

In Americas/Asia Pacific, patient platform volumes improved due to sales of the VersaCare   
bed platform, which was introduced in the second quarter of fiscal 2004 to replace our largest
selling Advanta    platform with a more feature-rich product. Combined sales of the
VersaCare    and Advanta    bed platforms increased nearly 14 percent in 2005. Volume
favorability was also enhanced with the strength of our
CareAssist  bed platform, which was also
introduced in the second quarter of fiscal 2004.

In our non-patient platform product offerings, we experienced higher volumes in communications,
service parts and contracts. However, architectural product volumes were down, attributable to
strong competitive pressures and an aging product line.

EMEA results increased from favorable foreign exchange mentioned above and increased volumes of
$4.8 million. Higher revenues were experienced primarily in Germany, Italy and France, while
revenues were lower in the Middle East, Africa and Emerging Europe.

Gross profit from Health Care sales increased $3.3 million from the prior year. As a percentage of
sales, gross profit was 40.6 percent in 2005 compared to 44.3 percent in 2004. The increase in
gross profit dollars was primarily attributable to the higher reported revenues described above.
Contributing to the decline in margin rates were continued lower pricing on most products, higher
raw material costs, inflationary wage and benefit expenses, and higher transportation costs.

52 

Table of Contents   

Health Care Rentals 

Health Care rental revenue increased $15.7 million. The overall increase in rental revenue was
attributable primarily to the effects of the Mediq acquisition made on January 30, 2004. Mediq
rental revenues were higher by $40.2 million resulting from the four additional months of revenue
in the 2005 period. Excluding the impact of Mediq, core rental business revenues in Americas/Asia
Pacific were down $28.5 million compared to the prior year period. This decline was due primarily
to lower revenues on The Vest    products of $14.7 million, along with the effect of lower
pricing on most products and the recognition of certain allowances amid collectibility concerns on
aged rental receivables of a combined $16 million. The Vest    product volumes were down due
to a reduction in referral volumes and negative changes in Medicare payment practices for
non-cystic fibrosis and non-bronchiectasis diagnoses. EMEA rental revenues were up $4.0 million,
including favorable effects of exchange rates of $1.6 million.

Health Care rental gross profit decreased $19.9 million in 2005, despite the overall higher
revenues and four months of incremental margin related to the prior year acquisition of Mediq. The
decline in Americas/Asia Pacific was due to lower pricing and collectibility concerns of $16
million, as outlined above, and unfavorable field service spending of an additional $16 million
related primarily to continuing customer fulfillment issues. As a percentage of sales, gross
profit was 52.4 percent of revenues in 2005 compared to 58.6 percent of revenues in the prior year.
As a percentage of revenues, gross margin rates decreased in 2005, resulting from lower pricing in
Americas/Asia Pacific, higher field service costs and the drop in higher margin revenues from The
Vest    products as
discussed above, coupled with higher revenues from lower margin Mediq  products for which there was an extra four months of such revenues in 2005. The lower margins in
fiscal 2005 were also due in part to a rental asset inventory loss of $4.8 million recognized in
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 upon completion of a physical inventory.

Health Care Operating Loss 

Health Care sales and rentals combined for an operating loss of $246.0 million in 2005, which was
$419.1 million less than the operating profit of $173.1 million recognized in 2004. The decrease
in operating profit was primarily due to the Spartanburg antitrust litigation charge of $358.6
million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Operating profit also declined due to lower Health
Care gross profit of $16.6 million, including both capital and rental products, higher operating
expenses of $21.5 million and higher net special charges of $22.4 million. The acquisitions of
ARI, Mediq and NaviCare added operating expenses of approximately $8 million, based on their
respective dates of acquisition. In addition, operating expenses increased as a result of higher
legal and professional fees of $18.8 million, primarily related to higher antitrust litigation
expenses of $21.9 million, and increased commissions of $4.2 million on higher capital revenues.
These increases were partially offset by lower EMEA operating expenses and lower overall benefit
costs.

In 2005, Health Care operating results included net special charges of $27.7 million primarily
related to severance and benefit-related costs associated with business restructuring activities in
the U.S. and Europe. This charge also included the impairment of certain assets no longer aligned
with our core strategy to focus on hospital bed frames, therapy support surfaces and our services
businesses in the amount of $4.6 million. Health Care operating results in 2004 included net
special charges of $5.3 million primarily related to severance and benefit-related costs associated
with a restructuring announced in the fourth quarter 2004, which was completed in fiscal 2005,
partially offset by the reversal of excess reserves related to prior year actions.

53 

Table of Contents   

Funeral Services  

Funeral Services product sales increased $19.1 million in fiscal 2005 compared to 2004. Favorable
price realization (that is, net revenues after discounts) of $31.0 million and increased cremations
products, distributor and other miscellaneous product accessory revenues of $6.8 million were the
key drivers of the increase. These favorable developments were only partially offset by a decline
of $11.6 million in burial volume and $6.0 million in unfavorable product mix, resulting primarily
from increases in our sales of lower-end metal and veneer products. We believe the decline in
volume is primarily attributable to a soft market due to a lower number of deaths as indicated by
preliminary Center for Disease Control (CDC) death estimates along with the gradual year-over-year
estimated increase in cremations.

Funeral Services gross profit was relatively flat. The decrease in margin as a percent of revenues
was due to lower burial volumes, higher raw material costs, a product mix shift to products
carrying lower margin percentages and fixed costs associated with the full year impact of our
manufacturing plant in Mexico and with our wood plant consolidation initiative. These negative
impacts were partially offset by improved price realization and fixed cost savings at other plants.

Funeral Services operating profit of $177.1 million in 2005 decreased $9.0 million from that
experienced in 2004. This year-over-year decrease was driven primarily by increased operating
expenses of $8.9 million related to increased sales expenses, fuel costs, health care, workers
compensation and bad debt expense. These unfavorable items were partially offset by lower
operating expenses for marketing. In 2005, Funeral Services operating results were also impacted
by special charges of $2.3 million related to the continuing consolidation of solid wood
manufacturing into our Batesville, Mississippi plant and a small headcount reduction performed in
the fourth quarter.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Net cash flows from operating activities and selected borrowings have represented our primary
sources of funds for growth of the business, including capital expenditures and acquisitions. Our
financing agreements contain no restrictive provisions or conditions relating to dividend payments,
working capital or additional unsecured indebtedness (except to the extent that a dividend payment
or incurrence of additional unsecured indebtedness would result in a default under our financing
agreements), but there are limitations with respect to secured

54 

Table of Contents   

indebtedness. Our debt agreements
also contain no credit rating triggers. Credit rating changes can, however, impact the cost of
borrowings under our financing agreements.

Operating Activities 

For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, net cash provided by operating activities totaled
$29.1 million compared to $239.7 million in the prior year. In 2006, we maintained positive
operating cash flows despite being negatively impacted by $339.3 million for the settlement
payment and associated legal fees related to the Spartanburg antitrust litigation settlement.
This negative impact was partially offset by a large deferred tax provision of $119.8 million,
also driven by the Spartanburg settlement. The 2005 operating cash flows were negatively
impacted by the pension funding discussed below.

Depreciation, amortization and the write-down of intangibles decreased to $108.8 million in 2006
from $114.0 million in 2005. The decrease in depreciation and amortization in 2006 related
primarily to Hill-Rom, where capital expenditures were down significantly from the prior year, and
certain assets became fully depreciated.

In June 2005, we contributed $75.5 million into our master defined benefit retirement plan, fully
funding that plan. We elected to make this contribution as it reduced future pension expense,
provided a return on investment of approximately 8 percent and was tax deductible. This funding
brought total 2005 contributions to our defined benefit plans to $76.9 million.

In 2006, changes in working capital decreased cash from operations, primarily due to the year over
year decrease in accrued expenses and increase in accounts receivable. The decrease in accrued
expenses is primarily the result of the payment of the previously mentioned Spartanburg litigation
settlement and associated legal fees. The increase in accounts receivable was due to higher
September revenues and continued collection difficulties with respect to Health Care rentals.

In 2005, changes in working capital also decreased cash from operations, primarily due to the year
over year increase in accounts receivable. As with 2006, this increase was also due to higher
revenues and lower collections on Health Care rentals, which were negatively impacted by inaccurate
billings and other process issues associated with the launch of our rental business system in
fiscal 2005. Partially offsetting the decrease in working capital was an increase in accrued
expenses and other liabilities, excluding the effects of the litigation accrual and the pension
funding.

Investing Activities 

Net cash provided by investing activities for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 totaled
$31.8 million compared to net cash used in investing activities of $175.2 million for the fiscal
year ended September 30, 2005. Capital expenditures in both periods included expenditures related
to the introduction of new products and the replacement of therapy and moveable medical equipment
units in the rental fleet, and in 2005, expenditures associated with our move to a single
information technology platform. Capital expenditures decreased to $92.6 million from $121.2
million in the prior year. Within Hill-Rom, capital expenditures decreased
to $73.7 million from $104.3 million for 2006 and 2005, respectively, while Batesville Casket s
capital expenditures increased to $18.9 million from $16.9 million over the same periods.

Investment activity in fiscal 2006 included $342.7 million of purchases and capital calls and
$454.6 million provided from sales and maturities. We invest a portion of our excess cash from
operations into highly liquid auction rate municipal bonds. These liquid, current investments
accounted for $336.8 million of the purchases and $427.8 million of the sales for 2006, as they
were utilized as a treasury management strategy to earn better rates of return on available cash.
In fiscal 2005, current investment purchases were $181.8 million with sales of $143.3

55 

Table of Contents   

million. In
both periods, the remaining investment activity primarily relates to capital calls and
distributions from our private equity limited partnerships.

On October 17, 2003, we announced that we had completed our acquisition of ARI, a manufacturer and
distributor of non-invasive airway clearance products and systems. The purchase price was $103.0
million, plus an additional $2.2 million of acquisition costs incurred in relation to the
transaction. This purchase price was subject to certain working capital adjustments at the date of
close not to exceed $12 million. Upon closing, $73.3 million of the purchase price was paid to the
shareholders of ARI, with an additional $9.7 million deferred until a later date. Upon final
determination of the working capital adjustment in January 2004, an additional $11.8 million was
paid to the shareholders of ARI, along with $4 million of the originally deferred payments. A
remaining deferral of $5.7 million was paid in December 2005. The purchase price included a first
quarter 2005 payment of $8.2 million resulting from net revenues achieved in fiscal 2004. This
acquisition was funded directly out of our cash on hand.

On January 30, 2004, we acquired Mediq, a company in the medical equipment outsourcing and asset
management business. The purchase price for Mediq was $328.9 million plus an additional $5.9
million of acquisition costs incurred in relation to the transaction. This purchase price was
subject to certain adjustments based upon the Mediq balance sheet at the date of close. Upon
finalization of the funded status of the Mediq defined benefit pension plan, $7.3 million of the
purchase price was returned to Hill-Rom in 2006, which was recorded as a reduction of goodwill.
Also in 2006, $3.9 million of goodwill related to Mediq was reduced as we were able to recognize
certain tax attributes that were originally recorded with a full valuation allowance. The purchase
of Mediq was initially funded from cash on hand and from our revolving credit facilities, but was
later financed on a permanent basis through the issuance of senior notes in June 2004.

In addition, on January 30, 2004, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 84 percent of the
equity of NaviCare that we did not own for $14.1 million, including deferred payments of $1.2
million paid in the second quarter of fiscal 2005. NaviCare provides operations management,
resource optimization and dynamic workflow solutions for health care enterprises. The purchase was
funded from cash on hand.

We received total cash of $8.3 million in the acquisitions of ARI, Mediq and NaviCare during 2004,
which were reflected as a decrease in the acquisition price on the Statements of Consolidated Cash
Flows.

In March 2006, Batesville Casket made an acquisition of a small regional casket distributor, which
was funded from cash on hand.

The divestiture of the Hill-Rom piped-medical gas business was completed in October 2003 with the
receipt of gross proceeds of approximately $13 million. The divestiture of the Hill-Rom infant
care business was completed in August 2004 with the receipt of gross proceeds of $31 million.

We also received $104.9 million of cash proceeds from the disposition of Forethought, which closed
on July 1, 2004. Other consideration from the sale of Forethought included a $92.0 million seller
note receivable, $19.9 million of FFS preferred stock, $1.0 million of FFS stock warrants, $10.6
million debt service account and the transfer of $31.4 million of private equity limited
partnerships. An additional cash payment of $6.5 million was received in January 2006 following
the Office of Thrift Supervision approval of the sale of Forethought Federal Savings Bank at the
end of December 2005. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail on the
Forethought divestiture.

On June 29, 2004, Forethought sold specific real estate partnerships that were part of their
investment portfolio and were originally expected to be retained by Hillenbrand at closing.

56 

Table of Contents   

Forethought received $104.2 million in cash proceeds on the sale and recorded a capital loss on the
transaction of $7.2 million. The loss realized as a result of this transaction is included in
discontinued operations for the year ended September 30, 2004. Included in the sale were mortgage
loans of $53.7 million related to two of the real estate properties. Accordingly, the net impact
of selling these partnerships resulted in Hillenbrand receiving an additional $50.5 million in cash
proceeds from Forethought s sale.

Financing Activities 

Net cash used in financing activities totaled $56.4 million for the fiscal year ended September 30,
2006 compared to $114.9 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005.

Cash dividends paid increased slightly to $69.8 million in 2006, compared to $69.4 million in 2005.
Quarterly cash dividends per share were $0.2825 in 2006, $0.28 in 2005 and $0.27 in 2004.

Treasury stock acquired was $0.7 million in 2006 compared to $71.6 million in 2005. The higher
2005 purchases were primarily open market repurchases. Proceeds on the exercise of stock options
decreased to $5.2 million in 2006, down from $18.9 million in 2005.

Our debt-to-capital ratio was 24.0 percent at September 30, 2006 compared to 26.9 percent at
September 30, 2005. This decrease was primarily due to higher equity in conjunction with the net
income earned in fiscal 2006.

Other Liquidity Matters 

As of September 30, 2006, we have a $400.0 million five-year senior revolving credit facility with
a syndicate of banks led by Bank of America, N.A. and Citigroup North America, Inc. The term of
the five-year facility expires on June 1, 2009. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest
at variable rates, as defined therein. The availability of borrowings under the five-year facility
is subject to our ability at the time of borrowing to meet certain specified conditions. These
conditions include, without limitation, a maximum debt to capital ratio of 55 percent. The
proceeds of the five-year facility shall be used, as needed: (i) for working capital, capital
expenditures, and other lawful corporate purposes; and (ii) to finance acquisitions.

As of September 30, 2006, we: (i) had $14.3 million of outstanding, undrawn letters of credit under
the five-year facility, (ii) were in compliance with all conditions set forth under the facility
and (iii) had complete access to the remaining $385.7 million of borrowing capacity available under
that facility.

We have trade finance credit lines totaling $16.0 million that have no commitment fees or
compensating balance requirements and are renewed annually. As of September 30, 2006, we had $10.4
million outstanding under this credit line as reflected in Short-term borrowings on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, as of September 30, 2006, we had $13.6
million of outstanding, undrawn letters of credit under an uncommitted credit line of $20.0 million
that has no commitment fees, compensating balance requirements or fixed expiration dates.

On July 14, 2003, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission on Form S-3 for the potential sale of up to $1 billion in debt and/or equity
securities. This registration statement is effective and should provide us with significant
flexibility with respect to our access to the public markets. However, there can be no assurance
that additional financing under the universal shelf registration statement or elsewhere will be
available at terms acceptable to us. On June 7, 2004, we issued $250.0 million of senior notes
from this universal shelf registration statement, leaving $750.0 million of available capacity
under the universal registration statement.

57 

Table of Contents   

During the second fiscal quarter of 2006, Moody s completed a review of our debt rating and reduced
our rating from A2, with negative outlook, to A3, with stable outlook. Standard and Poor s
conducted a similar review during that quarter and maintained our A rating. In November 2006,
Standard and Poor s reduced our rating from A, with negative outlook, to A-, with negative outlook.
Moody s reconfirmed our rating of A3 but changed the outlook to negative in November as well. We
do not expect these actions to have a material impact on the cost of future financing.

In fiscal year 2005, we recorded a pre-tax litigation charge of $358.6 million ($226.1 million
net-of-tax). The charge was associated with the definitive agreement to settle for $337.5 million
($212.8 million net-of-tax) the Spartanburg antitrust class action litigation lawsuit. The charge
also included certain legal and other costs related to the settlement. The court entered an Order
and Final Judgment approving the settlement following a fairness hearing on June 14, 2006. The
original cost of the settlement, $337.5 million, was reduced by almost $21.2 million to $316.3
million. The reduction in the settlement amount reflects the position attributable to customers
who opted out of the settlement. In addition to the $50 million that was paid into the escrow fund
in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 pending final court approval, we paid the remaining $266.3
million into the escrow fund in August 2006. The entire funding of the settlement was completed
from cash on hand. After funding the settlement, we continue to have a solid financial position
with continued strong operating cash flows and remaining availability under our previously
discussed revolving credit facility, as well as potential access to the capital markets to fund the
execution of our strategic initiatives.

We intend to continue to pursue selective acquisition candidates in certain areas of our business,
but the timing, size or success of any acquisition effort and the related potential capital
commitments cannot be predicted. We expect to fund future acquisitions primarily with cash on
hand, cash flow from operations and borrowings, including the unborrowed portion of the five-year
credit facility, but we may also issue additional debt and/or equity in connection with
acquisitions.

During 2006, we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the open market. As of
September 30, 2006, we had Board of Directors  approval to repurchase 1,578,400 additional shares.
Effective October 26, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional
1,421,600 shares, bringing the total available for repurchase to 3,000,000 shares. We may consider
additional repurchases of shares if justified by the stock price or other considerations.
Repurchased shares are to be used for general business purposes.

Because Forethought operated in a regulated environment, its cash flows were generally neutral to
Hillenbrand. Cash flows from the piped-medical gas and infant care businesses generally
approximated net income. Proceeds from the sale of these divested businesses are classified as
investing activities and any gains or losses are presented as a reconciling item in
the reconciliation of net income (loss) to net cash flows from operating activities. Other
operating, investing and financing activities of these discontinued operations are reflected within
the respective captions of the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows up to the disposal date and
consistent with previous periods.

We believe that cash on hand and generated from operations and amounts available under our
five-year credit facility along with amounts available from the capital markets, will be sufficient
to fund operations, working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements and financing
obligations. However, if a class is certified in any of the purported class action antitrust
lawsuits filed against us, as described in Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and
the plaintiffs prevail at trial, potential damages awarded the plaintiffs could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements.

58 

Table of Contents   

Contractual Obligations and Contingent Liabilities and Commitments 

To give a clear picture of matters potentially impacting our liquidity position, the following are
tables of contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of September 30, 2006 (Dollars in
millions):

(1) 
       
     Interest payments on our long-term debt are projected based on the contractual rates of those
debt securities including the $250.0 million, 4.5 percent, senior notes issued June 7, 2004.
However, $200.0 million of our 4.5 percent senior notes are subject to interest rate swap
agreements, effectively converting the securities from 4.5 percent fixed rate interest to
variable rate interest, calculated at LIBOR plus 0.15 percent. For the 2006 and 2005 periods
in which the interest rate swap agreements were outstanding, the average variable interest
rate on debt covered by the swaps approximated 4.9 percent and 2.9
percent, respectively. Since we are unable to project future LIBOR rates, we have opted to
project interest payments based on the contractual rates of our debt. 

(2) 
       
     We are in year four of a seven-year agreement with IBM to manage our global information
structure environment, which was announced near the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2003.
The original agreement had a cumulative estimated cost of $187 million. To date, we have on
occasion, solicited IBM to perform services that are outside the scope of the original base
agreement. These services can result in a one-time fee or can result in additional services
received and costs incurred over the remaining term of the agreement. Over the agreement we
have also terminated and resourced areas covered under the agreement which result in a
reduction to our commitments. The effect of these increases and decreases to the original
agreement nearly offset the cost of our original seven year agreement, and will continue to be
incurred in nearly equal amounts over the remaining term of the agreement. 

59 

Table of Contents   

(3) 
       
     The investment commitment amounts represent additional commitments to private equity limited
partnerships. The timing of these commitment calls has been estimated based on the current
status of each partnership. These commitments will be funded with existing cash and cash flow
from operations. 

(4) 
       
     The minimum pension funding represents payments to comply with funding requirements. The
annual projected payments beyond fiscal 2008 are not currently determinable. Our minimum
pension funding requirements were substantially reduced as a result of the $75.5 million of
funding made to our primary defined benefit pension plan during fiscal 2005. 

(5) 
       
     Purchase obligations represent contractual obligations under various take-or-pay arrangements
entered into as part of the normal course of business. These commitments represent future
purchases in line with expected usage to obtain favorable pricing. Also included are
obligations related to purchase orders for which we have firm commitments related to order
releases under the purchase order. The amounts do not include obligations related to other
purchase obligations that are not considered take-or-pay arrangements or subject to firm
commitments. Such purchase obligations are primarily reflected in purchase orders at fair
value that are part of normal operations, which we do not believe represent firm purchase
commitments. We expect to fund these commitments with operating cash flows. 

The amounts disclosed in the following table represent the total expected commitment.

Amount of Commitment Expiration Per  

Total  
       
      Period  

Other Commercial  
       
      Amounts  
       
      Less than  
       
      1 - 3  
       
      4 - 5  
       
      Over 5  

Commitments 

Committed  
       
      1 year  
       
      years  
       
      years  
       
      years  

Standby Letters of
Credit 

$ 
     27.9 

$ 
     27.9 

$ 

$ 

$ 

In addition to the contractual obligations and commitments disclosed above, we also have a variety
of other agreements related to the procurement of materials and services and other commitments. We
are not subject to any contracts that commit us to material non-cancelable commitments. While many
of these agreements are long-term supply agreements, some of which are exclusive supply or complete
requirements-based contracts, we are not committed under these agreements to accept or pay for
requirements which are not needed to meet production needs.

In conjunction with the recent acquisition and divestiture activities, we have entered into certain
guarantees and indemnifications of performance with respect to the fulfillment of our commitments
under the respective purchase and sale agreements. The arrangements generally indemnify the buyer
or seller for damages associated with breach of contract, inaccuracies in representations and
warranties surviving the closing date and satisfaction of liabilities and commitments retained
under the applicable contract. Those representations and warranties which survive closing
generally survive for periods up to five years or the expiration of the applicable statutes of
limitations. Potential losses under the indemnifications are generally limited to a portion of the
original transaction price, or to other lesser specific dollar amounts for certain provisions.
With respect to sale transactions, we also routinely enter into non-competition agreements for
varying periods of time. Guarantees and indemnifications with respect to acquisition and
divestiture activities, if triggered, could have a materially adverse impact on our financial
condition and results of operations.

We expect capital spending in 2007 to increase to approximately $140 million, compared to $92.6
million in 2006, primarily due to an increased investment in our rental fleet. The 2007

60 

Table of Contents   

estimate
is before consideration of additional capital requirements for any new business acquisitions.

Shareholders  Equity 

Cumulative treasury stock acquired in open market and private transactions remained at 22,710,667
shares throughout 2006. As of September 30, 2006, we had Board of Directors  authorization to
repurchase up to a total of 1,578,400 additional shares of our common stock. Effective October 26,
2006, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 1,421,600 shares, bringing
the total available for repurchase to 3,000,000 shares. Repurchased shares are to be used for
general business purposes. From the cumulative shares acquired, 151,756 shares, net of shares
converted to cash to pay withholding taxes, were reissued during fiscal 2006 under provisions of
our various stock-based compensation plans.

OTHER ISSUES 

2006 Actions 

In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2006, we initiated restructuring actions taken to primarily
right-size Hill-Rom s North America field service organization in response to declines in rental
revenue. This restructuring will result in the elimination of approximately 140 positions and the
rationalization of certain rental product offerings which are no longer strategically necessary,
and resulted in a one-time charge of $4.2 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. The cash
component of this charge is $2.6 million, and the majority is to be paid in the next twelve months.

Also during 2006, we recorded additional special charges related to the continuation of
restructuring activities in Europe, which commenced in the fourth quarter of 2005 and are discussed
below. These actions include an ongoing voluntary severance program at our French manufacturing
facility and the finalization of termination provisions related to certain international contract
obligations. Such amounts recorded during fiscal 2006 were as follows:

2005 Actions 

During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2005, we announced several changes intended to simplify both
the corporate and Hill-Rom organizational structures and to support Hill-Rom s strategy to focus on
its core hospital bed frames, therapy support surfaces and services businesses, while remaining
flexible for future opportunities. As part of this change, Hill-Rom established two commercial
divisions, one focusing on North America and one focusing internationally, each including hospital
bed frames, therapy support surfaces and services businesses with supporting sales, marketing and
field service organizations. Hill-Rom also combined sourcing, manufacturing, and product
development under one new function to support these two commercial divisions. Home care products
and services and surgical accessories were combined under this structure into a separate, fully
integrated division. At the same time, all Hillenbrand corporate functions, including human
resources, finance, strategy, legal and information technology, were consolidated with those of
Hill-Rom.

61 

Table of Contents   

In building on these announced changes and to further capitalize on the progress we had made with
the works council at our Pluvigner, France facility during the year with respect to voluntary
departures, we took additional restructuring actions, in the United States and Europe during the
fourth quarter of 2005. These actions, which were approved by the Board of Directors on August 4,
2005, included the elimination of salaried and hourly positions in the United States and Europe,
the outsourcing of various products and sub-assembly parts, the impairment of certain assets no
longer considered necessary to the execution of our strategy and the termination of certain
contractual obligations. The reduction in employees participating in our Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plan as a result of these actions necessitated a curtailment charge of $1.2 million.
The collective cost of these actions resulted in a fourth quarter pre-tax charge of $30.8 million,
broken down by component as follows:

Pre-Tax Charge 

Severance and related benefits

$ 
     24.0 

Asset impairment

$ 
     4.8 

Contract termination costs

$ 
     0.8 

Curtailment charge

$ 
     1.2 

All of these actions were expected to be completed over the course of twelve months. All costs
other than those related to the impairment of assets were to be cash charges.

In addition to costs included directly in the fourth quarter charge, additional costs related
directly to these actions were also expected to be incurred over a twelve to eighteen month period,
most notably in Europe. These additional costs were originally estimated up to $10 million as the
voluntary severance program at our French manufacturing facility
continued to progress, but with the
additional amounts recognized in fiscal 2006 and changes in circumstances, the remaining amount to
be recognized is now estimated to range from $2
million to $4 million. Once these actions are completed, annual savings related to both cost of
sales and operating expenses of $45 million to $50 million are anticipated. Further, upon
completion, we expect to have eliminated up to 600 positions on a worldwide basis.

For an update on the status of reserves originally provided and those provided in fiscal 2006 under
these actions, see the table under 2006 Actions. Severance actions are now essentially complete,
with the exception of ongoing volunteer activity at our French manufacturing facility. With
respect to contract termination costs, all termination provisions have been finalized and payment
of the incurred penalties will be completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2007.

In conjunction with and as a result of the actions being taken in Europe, in the fourth quarter we
also wrote off $16.0 million of deferred tax assets. This write-off had no impact on cash. These
deferred tax assets were originally recognized in fiscal 2004 as part of a strategy to change the
structure of our French operations, including the creation of a new French entity and operating
structure. As a result of the restructuring actions outlined above, implementation of the tax
strategy was no longer economically prudent and the deferred tax assets were therefore written off.
It should also be noted that the majority of the pre-tax restructuring charge associated with
Europe was recorded without a tax benefit.

Also in the fourth quarter of 2005, Batesville Casket recorded a special charge of $0.8 million for
severance and benefit-related costs resulting from a right-sizing of the operation. All charges
associated with this action were paid in cash in fiscal 2006.

In the third fiscal quarter of 2005, we announced plans to close Batesville Casket s Nashua, New
Hampshire plant and consolidate Batesville Casket s solid wood casket production into its
Batesville, Mississippi plant ( Panola ). The consolidation of the two plants resulted in a total
pre-tax charge of $4.5 million, that was realized through the completion of the consolidation in
the second quarter of fiscal 2006. Cash components of this charge included $2.3 million in
employee-related costs, including severance, pension and other termination benefits, and $1.6

62 

Table of Contents   

million in costs related to the transfer of equipment, training of employees and other associated
costs. The remaining $0.6 million consisted of non-cash charges resulting from the accelerated
depreciation of equipment and amortization of software. Approximately $2.8 million of this charge
was incurred in fiscal 2005, of which $1.5 million of severance and benefit costs was recorded as a
special charge in the third quarter. Upon completion, this action was expected to lower operating
costs by $4.3 million (pre-tax) annually, which includes $0.2 million in reduced depreciation. At
September 30, 2006, $0.2 million remained in the reserve.

Additionally, in the third fiscal quarter of 2005 we announced the retirement of Frederick W.
Rockwood, former Chief Executive Officer. We incurred a charge of $2.4 million related to future
payments and other compensation related items under the terms of Mr. Rockwood s retirement
agreement. At September 30, 2006, $0.6 million remained in the reserve.

On March 22, 2005, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the U.S. Department of Justice
initiated a seizure at Vail Products, Inc., of Toledo, Ohio, on several models of an enclosure bed
system manufactured by Vail, and advised Vail s customers to cease using those beds immediately.
On June 24, 2005, the FDA announced that Vail Products was permanently ceasing the manufacture,
sale, and distribution of all Vail enclosed bed systems and would no longer be available to provide
accessories, replacement parts, or retrofit kits. Hill-Rom was a distributor of Vail products and
had a number of the affected beds in its rental fleet. In its role as a distributor, Hill-Rom
responded promptly to the FDA notification and permanently ceased all sale or rental of the
affected products. As a result, in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we recorded a $1.7 million
impairment on these assets.

2004 Actions 

During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2004, we announced a restructuring intended to better align
Hill-Rom s financial and personnel resources to fully support its strategic initiatives, decrease
overall costs, and improve overall performance in Europe. The plan included the expected
elimination of approximately 130 salaried positions in the U.S. and approximately 100 positions in
Europe and resulted in a fourth quarter charge of $7.1 million associated with severance and
benefit-related costs. In relation to this realignment, the Hillenbrand corporate organization
recorded an additional severance charge of $0.2 million. During fiscal 2006, $0.1 million of the
originally recorded reserve was reversed, primarily related to the transfer of personnel to other
open positions within the organization, and this action is now complete.

Other 

In addition to the reserve balances outlined above, $1.8 million of accrued liabilities were
outstanding at September 30, 2006 related to retirement obligations of W August Hillenbrand, a
former Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Mr. Hillenbrand retired in the fourth calendar
quarter of 2000.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Our accounting policies, including those described below, require management to make significant
estimates and assumptions using information available at the time the estimates are made. Such
estimates and assumptions significantly affect various reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses. If future experience differs materially from these estimates and
assumptions, results of operations and financial condition could be affected. Our most critical
accounting policies are described below. A more detailed description of our significant accounting
policies is included in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form
10-K.

63 

Table of Contents   

Revenue Recognition 

Net revenues reflect gross revenues less sales discounts and allowances and customer returns for
product sales and a provision for uncollectible receivables for rentals. Revenue is evaluated
under the following criteria and recognized when each is met:

Evidence of an arrangement: An agreement with the customer
reflecting the terms and conditions to deliver products or
services serves as evidence of an arrangement. 

Delivery: For products, delivery is considered to occur upon
receipt by the customer and the transfer of title and risk of
loss. For rental services, delivery is considered to occur when
the services are rendered. 

Fixed or determinable price: The sales price is considered fixed
or determinable if it is not subject to refund or adjustment. 

Collection is deemed probable: At or prior to the time of a
transaction, credit reviews of each customer are performed to
determine the creditworthiness of the customer. Collection is
deemed probable if the customer is expected to be able to pay
amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If
collection is not probable, revenue is recognized when collection
becomes probable, generally upon cash collection. 

As a general interpretation of the above guidelines, revenues for health care products in the
patient care environment and for casket and cremation products in the funeral services portion of
our business are generally recognized upon delivery of the products to the customer and their
assumption of risk of loss and other risks and rewards of ownership. Local business customs and
non-standard sales terms can sometimes result in deviations to this normal practice in certain
instances; however, in no case is revenue recognized prior to the transfer of risk of loss and
rewards of ownership.

For non-invasive therapy products within our health care business, the majority of product
offerings are rental products for which revenues are recognized consistent with the rendering of
the service and use of products. For The Vest    product, revenue is generally recognized at
the time of receipt of authorization for billing from the applicable paying entity as this serves
as evidence of the arrangement and sets a fixed or determinable price.

For health care products and services aimed at improving operational efficiency and asset
utilization, various revenue recognition techniques are used, depending on the offering.
Arrangements to provide services, routinely under separately sold service and maintenance
contracts, result in the deferral of revenues until specified services are performed. Service
contract revenue is generally recognized ratably over the contract period, if applicable, or as
services are rendered. Product-related goods are generally recognized upon delivery to the
customer, similar to products in the patient care environment.

Revenues are presented in the Statements of Consolidated Income (Loss) net of certain discounts and
allowances. For product sales, based on contractual discounts and rebates, as well as estimated
early pay discounts, price concessions and product returns, we record reserves resulting in a
reduction of revenue. Likewise, reserves for contractual and other routine billing allowances are
recorded and reflected as a reduction of rental revenues.

An allowance for doubtful accounts is also recorded, but is not reflected as a reduction of
revenues. Rather it is recorded as a component of operating expenses.

Liabilities for Loss Contingencies Related to Lawsuits 

We are involved on an ongoing basis in claims and lawsuits relating to our operations, including
environmental, antitrust, patent infringement, business practices, commercial

64 

Table of Contents   

transactions and other matters. The ultimate outcome of these lawsuits cannot be predicted with certainty. An
estimated loss from these contingencies is recognized when we believe it is probable that a loss
has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. However, it is difficult
to measure the actual loss that might be incurred related to litigation. The ultimate outcome of
these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations and cash flow.

Legal fees associated with claims and lawsuits are generally expensed as incurred. Upon
recognition of an estimated loss resulting from a settlement, an estimate of legal fees to complete
the settlement are also included in the amount of the loss recognized.

We are also involved in other possible claims, including product liability, workers compensation,
auto liability and employment related matters. These have deductibles and self-insured retentions
ranging from $150 thousand to $1.5 million per occurrence or per claim, depending upon the type of
coverage and policy period.

Since December 1999, we have purchased deductible reimbursement policies from our wholly-owned
insurance company, Sycamore Insurance Company, for the deductibles and self-insured retentions
associated with our product liability, workers compensation and auto liability programs. Outside
insurance companies and third-party claims administrators establish individual claim reserves and
an independent outside actuary provides estimates of
ultimate projected losses, including incurred but not reported claims. The actuary also provides
estimates of ultimate projected losses used to determine accrual adequacy for losses incurred prior
to December 1999.

Claim reserves for employment related matters are established based upon advice from internal and
external counsel and historical settlement information for claims and related fees, when such
amounts are considered probable of payment.

The recorded amounts represent our best estimate of the costs we will incur in relation to such
exposures, but it is possible that actual costs could differ from those estimates.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets 

Goodwill and certain other indefinite-lived intangible assets are no longer amortized, but instead
are subject to periodic impairment evaluations under SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets . Our most recent impairment assessment was completed during the third quarter of 2006,
which indicated that there was no impairment with respect to goodwill or other recorded intangible
assets. With the exception of goodwill, the majority of our intangible assets are subject to
amortization. The majority of our goodwill resides at Hill-Rom.

In performing periodic impairment tests, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to the
carrying value, including goodwill and other intangible assets. If the carrying value exceeds the
fair value, an impairment condition exists, which results in an impairment loss equal to the excess
carrying value. Impairment tests are required to be conducted at least annually, or when events or
conditions occur that might suggest a possible impairment. These events or conditions include, but
are not limited to, a significant adverse change in the business environment, regulatory
environment or legal factors; a current period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history
of such losses or a projection of continuing losses; or a sale or disposition of a significant
portion of a reporting unit. The occurrence of one of these events or conditions could
significantly impact an impairment assessment, necessitating an impairment charge and adversely
affecting our results of operations.

For purposes of our annual 2006 goodwill impairment assessment, the Company has defined its
reporting units as Batesville Casket and the divisions operating within Hill-Rom, with goodwill
having been allocated among the Hill-Rom reporting units based on the relative fair value of those
divisions when the current divisional structure was adopted earlier in the year.

65 

Table of Contents   

With the implementation of a new reporting structure at Hill-Rom in fiscal 2007, goodwill within
the Hill-Rom reporting units will be reallocated based upon the relative fair value of the new
reporting units.

Stock-Based Compensation 

Prior to fiscal 2006, we applied the provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No.
25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  in accounting for stock-based compensation. As a
result, no compensation expense was recognized for stock options granted with exercise prices
equivalent to the fair market value of stock on the date of grant. Compensation expense was
recognized on other forms of stock-based compensation, including stock and performance-based awards
and units. Effective October 1, 2005, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment  using the
modified prospective application method. This Statement requires companies to measure and
recognize compensation expense for all stock options and share-based compensation transactions
using a fair-value-based method. SFAS No. 123(R) thereby eliminated the use of the intrinsic value
method of accounting in APB Opinion No. 25. See further discussion of SFAS No. 123(R) in Notes 1
and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Retirement Plans 

We sponsor retirement plans covering a majority of employees. Expense recognized in relation to
defined benefit retirement plans is based upon actuarial valuations and inherent in those
valuations are key assumptions including discount rates, expected returns on assets and projected
future salary rates. The discount rates used in the valuation of our defined benefit pension plans
are evaluated annually based on current market conditions. In setting these rates we utilize
long-term bond indices and yield curves as a preliminary indication of interest rate movements, and
then make adjustments to the respective indices to reflect differences in the terms of the bonds
covered under the indices in comparison to the projected outflow of our pension obligations. Our
overall expected long-term rate of return on pension assets is based on historical and expected
future returns, which are inflation adjusted and weighted for the expected return for each
component of the investment portfolio. Our rate of assumed compensation increase is also based on
our specific historical trends of past wage adjustments in recent years.

Changes in retirement benefit expense and the recognized obligation may occur in the future as a
result of a number of factors, including changes to any of these assumptions. Our expected rate of
return on plan assets was 8.00 percent for fiscal 2006 and 2005, an increase from 7.75 percent for
fiscal year 2004. A 25 basis point increase in the expected rate of return on plan assets reduces
annual pension expense by approximately $0.7 million. The discount rate was increased to 6.00
percent in 2006, consistent with 2004 and up from 5.50 percent in 2005. For each 50 basis point
change in the discount rate, the impact to annual pension expense ranges from $0.8 million to $2.1
million. Impacts from assumption changes could be positive or negative depending on the direction
of the change in rates. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which statements are
included herein under Item 8, for key assumptions and other information regarding our retirement
plans.

Valuation Allowances Recorded Against Deferred Tax Assets and Allocated Tax Reserves 

We have a variety of deferred tax assets in numerous tax jurisdictions. These deferred tax assets
are subject to periodic assessment as to recoverability and if it is determined that it is more
likely than not that the benefits will not be realized, valuation allowances are recognized. We
have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred tax assets, primarily those
related to foreign tax attributes in countries with poor operating results, capital loss
carryforwards in the United States where future capital gains may not be available to realize the
benefit and other domestic tax attributes with extended carryforward periods.
In evaluating whether it is more likely than not that we would recover these deferred tax assets,
future

66 

Table of Contents   

taxable income, the reversal of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies
are considered.

We believe that our estimates for the valuation allowances recorded against deferred tax assets are
appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. We currently have $90.6 million of valuation
allowances on deferred tax assets, on a tax-effected basis, principally related to foreign
operating loss carryforwards, capital loss carryforwards and other domestic tax attributes.

Investments 

Upon the sale of Forethought, certain private equity limited partnerships previously held in the
insurance investment portfolio were retained. We continue to use the equity method of accounting
for these investments, with earnings or losses reported within Other income in the Statements of
Consolidated Income (Loss). Our portion of any unrealized gains and losses related to such
investments are charged or credited to accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income in
shareholders  equity, and deferred taxes are recognized for the income tax effect of any such
unrealized gains and losses. Earnings and values for investments accounted for under the equity
method are determined based on audited financial statements provided by the investment companies.
Other minority investments made outside of the former insurance business portfolio are accounted
for on either a cost or equity basis, dependent upon our level of influence over the investee.

The seller financing provided upon the divestiture of Forethought included preferred stock at a
notional amount of $28.7 million, which accrues cumulative dividends at the rate of 5 percent per
annum. The preferred stock is redeemable at any time at the option of FFS Holdings, Inc. and must
be redeemed by FFS Holdings, Inc. under specified circumstances. This investment is recorded at
amortized cost and classified as held-to-maturity.

When a security is sold, we report the difference between the sales proceeds and amortized cost
(determined based on specific identification) as a capital gain or loss.

We regularly evaluate all investments for possible impairment based on current economic conditions,
credit loss experience and other criteria. If there is a decline in a security s net realizable
value that is other-than-temporary, the decline is recognized as a realized loss and the cost basis
of the security is reduced to its estimated fair value. Select criteria utilized in analyzing
individual securities for impairment include:

The extent and duration to which the market value of a security was below its cost; 

Downgrades in debt ratings; 

Significant declines in value, regardless of the length of time the market value was
below cost; 

The status of principal and interest payments on debt securities; 

Financial condition and recent events impacting companies underlying the securities; and 

General economic and industry conditions. 

The evaluation of investments for impairment requires significant judgments to be made including
(i) the identification of potentially impaired securities; (ii) the determination of their
estimated fair value; and (iii) assessment of whether any decline in estimated fair value was other
than temporary. If new information becomes available or the financial condition of the investee
changes, our judgment may change resulting in the recognition of an investment loss at that time.
At September 30, 2006 accumulated other comprehensive income included net
unrealized gains on investments of $3.4 million, which included unrealized losses of $0.1 million.
These unrealized losses are considered to be temporary.

67 

Table of Contents   

Environmental Matters 

We are committed to operating all of our businesses in a manner that protects the environment. In
the past year, we were issued two violation letters, each alleging violation of one minor
environmental permit condition. The violations involved no fines or penalties. We, however, have
successfully implemented measures to abate such conditions in compliance with the underlying
agreements and/or regulations. In the past, we have voluntarily entered into remediation
agreements with various environmental authorities to address onsite and offsite environmental
impacts. We have also been notified as a potentially responsible party in investigations of
certain offsite disposal facilities. Based on the nature and volume of materials involved, the
cost of such onsite and offsite remediation activities to be incurred by us in which we are
currently involved is not expected to exceed $1 million. We believe we have provided adequate
reserves in our financial statements for all of these matters, which have been determined without
consideration of possible loss recoveries from third parties. Future events or changes in existing
laws and regulations or their interpretation may require us to make additional expenditures in the
future. The cost or need for any such additional expenditures is not known.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards 

In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143, Accounting for Asset
Retirement Obligations  ( FIN 47 ). FIN 47 clarifies the term  conditional asset retirement
obligation  and requires a liability to be recorded for a conditional obligation if the fair value
of the obligation can be reasonably estimated. FIN 47 was effective for the Company beginning in
the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, and adoption did not have a material effect on our
Consolidated Financial Statements.

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48 ), which clarifies the accounting for
income taxes by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold as  more-likely-than-not  that a tax
position must meet before being recognized in the financial statements. FIN 48 also provides
guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting for income taxes in
interim periods, financial statement disclosure and transition rules. This Interpretation is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. As such, we are required to adopt
FIN 48 by October 1, 2007. We will evaluate the effect of this Interpretation on our Consolidated
Financial Statements and Results of Operations.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements,  which defines fair
value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles
and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This Statement does not require any new
fair value measurements, but provides guidance on how to measure fair value by providing a fair
value hierarchy used to classify the source of the information. SFAS No. 157 is effective for
financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim periods
within those fiscal years. The adoption of SFAS No. 157 is not expected to have a material impact
on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations.

In September 2006, the FASB also issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and
132(R).  This Statement requires recognition of the funded status of a
benefit plan in the statement of financial position. SFAS No. 158 also requires recognition in
other comprehensive income of certain gains and losses that arise during the period but are
deferred under pension accounting rules, as well as modifies the timing of reporting and adds
certain disclosures. The Statement provides recognition and disclosure elements to be effective as
of the end of the fiscal year after December 15, 2006 and measurement elements to be effective for
fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. We have not yet analyzed the impact SFAS No. 158 will
have on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations. For additional information
about our retirement plans, see Note 6.

68 

Table of Contents   

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

We are exposed to various market risks, including fluctuations in interest rates, volatility in our
investment portfolio, collection risk associated with our notes receivable portfolio and
variability in currency exchange rates. We have established policies, procedures and internal
processes governing our management of market risks and the use of financial instruments to manage
our exposure to such risks.

We are subject to variability in foreign currency exchange rates primarily in our European and
Canadian operations. Exposure to this variability is periodically managed primarily through the
use of natural hedges, whereby funding obligations and assets are both managed in the local
currency. We, from time-to-time, enter into currency exchange agreements to manage our exposure
arising from fluctuating exchange rates related to specific transactions. The sensitivity of
earnings and cash flows to variability in exchange rates is assessed by applying an appropriate
range of potential rate fluctuations to our assets, obligations and projected results of operations
denominated in foreign currencies.

In January 2006, we began using derivative instruments to manage our cash flow exposure from
changes in currency exchange rates in Canada. We operate the program pursuant to documented
corporate risk management policies and do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative
purposes.

Our currency risk consists primarily of foreign currency denominated firm commitments and
forecasted foreign currency denominated intercompany and third-party transactions. We had currency
derivative instruments outstanding in the contract amount of $14.5 million at September 30, 2006,
and those derivative instruments had a fair value of $0.3 million. The maximum length of time over
which the Company is hedging transaction exposure is 12 months. Derivative gains/(losses),
initially reported as a component of other comprehensive income, are reclassified to earnings in
the period when the forecasted transaction affects earnings.

A 10 percent appreciation in the U.S. dollar s value relative to the hedged currencies would
increase the derivative instruments  fair value by $1.3 million. A 10 percent depreciation in the
U.S. dollar s value relative to the hedged currencies would decrease the derivative instruments 
fair value by $1.6 million. Any increase or decrease in the fair value of our currency derivative
instruments would be substantially offset by a corresponding decrease or increase in the fair value
of the hedged underlying asset, liability or cash flow.

Our financial instruments are exposed to interest rate risk. Beginning in June 2004, we had two
interest rate swap agreements outstanding that converted our fixed interest rate expense to a
floating basis. The notional amount of the interest rate swaps was, and continues to be, $200.0
million. The gains or losses arising from the interest rate swap contracts offset gains or losses
on the underlying assets or liabilities and are recognized as offsetting adjustments to the
carrying amounts. Our full exposure to floating rate risk is reduced by the cash, cash
equivalents, and current investments held during each period, which are also subject to floating
rates and therefore reduce our total exposure to movements in rates. An analysis of the impact on
the Company s interest rate sensitive financial instruments to a hypothetical 100 basis point
change in short-term interest rates compared to interest rates at year-end showed no significant
impact on earnings or cash. As of September 30, 2006, the interest rate swap contracts reflected a
cumulative loss of $4.3 million, compared to a cumulative loss of $1.3 million at September 30,
2005.

We are also subject to volatility in our investment portfolio, with a book value of $64.3 million
at September 30, 2006. The investment portfolio, which includes equity partnerships among other
investments, could be adversely affected by general economic conditions, changes in
interest rates, default on debt instruments and other factors, resulting in an adverse impact on
our financial condition.

69 

Table of Contents   

In addition, we have outstanding long-term notes receivable of $134.4 million as of September 30,
2006. This balance primarily represents the seller financing provided to FFS Holdings, Inc.,
related to the divestiture of Forethought, but also includes a number of notes with customers of
Batesville Casket and Hill-Rom associated with amounts owed on product sales. Should Forethought
fail to perform consistent with the original expectations set forth by FFS Holdings, Inc. or
underperform to an extent that it cannot meet its financial obligations, or should general economic
conditions or other factors result in defaults of our customer notes, our earnings could be
negatively impacted resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results
of operations.

70 

Table of Contents   

Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

71 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF MANAGEMENT 

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended) for Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. Our internal control over financial
reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate.

Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as
of September 30, 2006 using criteria established in the Internal Control-Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and concluded
that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30,
2006 based on those criteria.

The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, as
well as our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of
September 30, 2006, have been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, our independent registered
public accounting firm, who also audited the consolidated financial statements, as stated in their
report included herein.

Peter H. Soderberg 
President and Chief Executive Officer

Gregory N. Miller 
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Richard G. Keller 
Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer

72 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of
Hillenbrand Industries, Inc.

We have completed integrated audits of Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. s 2006 and 2005 consolidated
financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006
and an audit of its 2004 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are
presented below.

Consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule 

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and its
subsidiaries at September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2006 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our
opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are
the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our
audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As
discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Company changed
the manner in which it accounts for share-based compensation in
fiscal 2006.

Internal control over financial reporting 

Also, in our opinion, management s assessment, included in the Report of Management appearing
under Item 8, that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as
of September 30, 2006 based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly
stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting
as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework  issued by the COSO. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management s
assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether effective internal control over financial

73 

Table of Contents   

reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial
reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness
of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Cincinnati, Ohio

December 5, 2006

74 

Table of Contents   

Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries 

STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME (LOSS) 

(Dollars in millions except per share data) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

75 

Table of Contents   

Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

(Dollars in millions) 

76 

Table of Contents   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

77 

Table of Contents   

Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries 

STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS 

(Dollars in millions )

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

78 

Table of Contents   

Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries 

STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 

(Dollars in millions) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

79 

Table of Contents   

Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

(Dollars in millions except per share data) 

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Nature of Operations 

Hillenbrand Industries is organized into two major operating companies serving the health care and
funeral services industries. Hill-Rom is a leading worldwide manufacturer and provider of medical
technologies and related services for the health care industry, including patient support systems,
non-invasive therapeutic products for a variety of acute and chronic medical conditions, medical
equipment rentals, and workflow information technology solutions. Hill-Rom s comprehensive product
and service offerings are used by health care providers across the health care continuum in
hospitals, extended care facilities and home care settings, to enhance the safety and quality of
patient care. Hill-Rom generated 65.6 percent of Hillenbrand s revenues from continuing operations
for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. Batesville Casket Company is a leader in the North
American death care industry through the sale of funeral service products, including burial
caskets, cremation caskets, containers and urns, selection room display fixturing, other
personalization and memorialization products. Batesville Casket generated 34.4 percent of
Hillenbrand s revenues from continuing operations for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006.
Prior to July 1, 2004, Forethought was our third operating company, and it marketed funeral plans
funded by life insurance policies and trust products through its pre-need insurance business and
federal savings bank.

Principles of Consolidation 

The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries. Material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.

Presentation of Discontinued Operations 

We announced the planned divestitures of the infant care and piped-medical gas businesses of
Hill-Rom in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 and the pre-need insurance business of Forethought in
the second quarter of 2004 and divested each of those businesses in the first, third and fourth
quarters, respectively, of fiscal 2004, as further described in Note 3 below. Our sale of the
Forethought Federal Savings Bank closed in the second quarter of fiscal 2006, concluding the
divestiture of Forethought. The operations of these businesses are presented as discontinued
operations within our Statements of Consolidated Income (Loss) for all periods presented. Under
this presentation, the revenues and costs associated with the businesses have been removed from the
individual line items comprising the Statements of Consolidated Income (Loss) and presented in a
separate section entitled,  Discontinued Operations . The results of discontinued operations are
not necessarily indicative of the results of the businesses if they had been operated on a
stand-alone basis. On the Consolidated Balance Sheets, the assets and liabilities of the
discontinued operations are also presented separately. On the Statements of Consolidated Cash
Flows, proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations are classified as an investing cash inflow
and any losses are presented as a reconciling item in the reconciliation of net income (loss) to
net cash flows from operating activities. Operating, investing and financing activities of the
discontinued operations are reflected within the respective captions of the Statements of
Consolidated Cash Flows up to the disposal date. See Note 3 for more details.

80 

Table of Contents   

Use of Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of certain assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expense
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Examples of such
estimates include the establishment of liabilities related to our accounts receivable reserves
(Note 1), accrued warranties (Note 1), income taxes (Note 9) and accrued litigation and self
insurance reserves (Note 17), among others.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

We consider investments in marketable securities and other highly liquid instruments with a
maturity of three months or less at date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Investments which
have no stated maturity are also considered cash equivalents. All of our marketable securities may
be freely traded.

Current Investments 

At September 30, 2006, we did not have any current investments, however at September 30, 2005, we
held $91.0 million of current investments, which consisted of auction rate municipal bonds
classified as available-for-sale securities. Our investments in these securities were recorded at
cost, which approximates fair market value due to their variable interest rates, which typically
reset every 7 to 35 days, and, despite the long-term nature of their stated contractual maturities,
we had the ability to quickly liquidate these securities. As a result, we had no cumulative gross
unrealized holding gains (losses) or gross realized gains (losses) from our current investments.
All income generated from these current investments was recorded within Investment income and other
within the Statements of Consolidated Income (Loss).

Trade Accounts Receivable 

Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not bear interest, unless the
transaction is an installment sale with payment terms exceeding one year. The allowance for
doubtful accounts is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses and collection risk
in our existing accounts receivable. We determine the allowance based on historical write-off
experience by industry and the reimbursement platform. Past due balances in our Health Care and
Funeral Services sales categories are reviewed individually for collectibility. Health Care rental
receivables are generally reviewed on a pooled basis based on historical collection experience for
each reimbursement type. Account balances are charged against the allowance when we believe it is
probable the receivable will not be recovered. We do not have any off-balance-sheet credit
exposure related to our customers.

We generally hold our trade accounts receivable until they are paid. Certain long-term receivables
(See Note 4) are occasionally sold to third parties, however, any recognized gain or loss on such
sales has historically not been material.

81 

Table of Contents   

Inventories 

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. Inventory costs are determined by the
last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for approximately 59 percent and 62 percent of our inventories at
September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Costs for other inventories have been determined
principally by the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Inventories at the end of each period
consist of the following:

If the FIFO method of inventory accounting, which approximates current cost, had been used for all
inventories, they would have been approximately $13.9 million and $13.1 million higher than
reported at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Equipment Leased to Others 

Equipment leased to others represents rental units and equipment, which are recorded at cost and
depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic life, ranging from 2 to 10
years. Total depreciation expense for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $45.8 million, $46.6
million and $42.3 million, respectively. The majority of these assets are leased on a day-to-day
basis. The write-off was recognized as a component of Special charges within the Statements of
Consolidated Income (Loss).

Property 

Property is recorded at cost and depreciated over the estimated useful life of the assets using
principally the straight-line method. Ranges of estimated useful lives are as follows:

When property is retired from service or otherwise disposed of, the cost and related amount of
depreciation or amortization are eliminated from the asset and accumulated depreciation accounts,
respectively. The difference, if any, between the net asset value and the proceeds on sale are
charged or credited to income. Total depreciation expense for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 was
$40.1 million, $43.2 million and $42.1 million, respectively. The major components of property and
the related accumulated depreciation at September 30, were as follows:

82 

Table of Contents   

Investments 

Our investment portfolio consists of investments in certain private equity limited partnerships,
other minority investments and equity investments in FFS Holdings, Inc. obtained from seller
financing upon the divestiture of Forethought.

We use the equity method of accounting for certain private equity limited partnership investments,
with earnings or losses reported within Investment income and other in the Statements of
Consolidated Income (Loss). Our portion of any unrealized gains (losses) related to such
investments, as well as unrealized gains (losses) on our other investments, are charged or credited
to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in shareholders  equity, and deferred taxes are
recognized for the income tax effect of any such unrealized gains (losses). The components of the
change in our unrealized gains during 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:

As of September 30, 2006 and 2005 we had net unrealized gains (net-of-tax) on available-for-sale
securities of $3.4 million and $8.9 million. The majority of these amounts reflect our share of
the equity method investments  unrealized gains/losses reported to us.

Earnings and values for investments accounted for under the equity method are determined based on
financial statements provided by the investment companies. Certain of these investments require
commitments by us to provide additional funding of up to $8.8 million. The timing of this funding
is uncertain, but is expected to occur over the next five years. Other minority investments are
accounted for on either a cost, fair value or equity basis, dependent upon our level of influence
over the investee.

The seller financing provided upon the divestiture of Forethought included preferred stock at a
notional amount of $28.7 million, which accrues cumulative dividends at the rate of 5 percent per
annum. The preferred stock is redeemable at any time at the option of FFS Holdings, Inc., the
entity that purchased Forethought, and must be redeemed by FFS Holdings, Inc. under specified
circumstances. This investment is classified as held-to-maturity and recorded at amortized cost.

When an investment is sold, we report the difference between the sales proceeds and amortized cost
(determined based on specific identification) as a capital gain or loss.

We regularly evaluate all investments for possible impairment based on current economic conditions,
credit loss experience and other criteria. If there is a decline in a security s net realizable
value that is other-than-temporary, the decline is recognized as a realized loss and the cost basis
of the investment is reduced to its estimated fair value. The evaluation of investments for
impairment requires significant judgments to be made including (i) the identification of
potentially impaired securities; (ii) the determination of their estimated fair value; and (iii)
the assessment of whether any decline in estimated fair value is other-than-temporary.

For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we recognized income (loss) on our
investments of $20.3 million, ($4.4) million and $3.8 million, respectively, which includes

83 

Table of Contents   

impairments of $2.0 million, $9.1 million and $0 million, respectively. These amounts were
recorded as a component of Investment income and other within our Statements of Consolidated Income
(Loss).

Intangible Assets 

Intangible assets are stated at cost and consist predominantly of goodwill, software, patents and
trademarks. With the exception of goodwill and certain trademarks, our intangible assets are
amortized on a straight-line basis over periods generally ranging from 3 to 20 years. We review
intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying value may not be recoverable. If an intangible asset is considered impaired and
the carrying value exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount
equal to that excess.

Impairment assessments for goodwill are done on a reporting unit level. For purposes of this
assessment, the Company has defined its reporting units as Batesville Casket and the divisions
operating within Hill-Rom, with goodwill having been allocated among the Hill-Rom reporting units
based on the relative fair value of those divisions when the divisional structure was adopted
during fiscal 2006. With the implementation of the new reporting structure at Hill-Rom in fiscal
2007, goodwill within the Hill-Rom reporting units will be reallocated based upon the relative fair
value of the new reporting units. Our most recent annual impairment test was completed during the
third quarter of 2006 and reconfirmed the lack of any impairment.

Our goodwill, and many of our intangible assets, however, are not deductible for income tax
purposes. A summary of intangible assets and the related accumulated amortization as of September
30 was as follows:

Amortization expense for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $22.9 million, $24.2 million and
$21.6 million, respectively. Intangible asset write-offs were $1.5 million and $4.8 million in
fiscal years 2006 and 2005 for the full impairment of certain assets no longer considered necessary
to the execution of our strategy. Amortization expense for all intangibles is expected to
approximate the following for each of the next five fiscal years and thereafter: $30.5 million in
2007, $20.5 million in 2008, $19.0 million in 2009, $17.4 million in 2010, $16.5 million in 2011
and $48.9 million thereafter.

Goodwill decreased $9.6 million during 2006. This included $3.9 million related to the reversal of
a valuation allowance on certain tax attributes acquired from Mediq and $7.3 million related to the
finalization of the funded status of the Mediq defined benefit pension plan. These decreases were
partially offset by $1.6 million of additional goodwill related to Batesville Casket s acquisition
of a small regional casket distributor.

Goodwill decreased $5.5 million during 2005, resulting from the true-up of deferred taxes for
opening balance sheet adjustments on ARI, Mediq and NaviCare and a reduction to the previously
accrued contingent payment made to ARI in the first fiscal quarter of 2005.

Goodwill increased $283.5 million during 2004, resulting from the acquisitions of ARI, Mediq and
NaviCare, all within Hill-Rom. This included $73.1 million and $197.2 million from the
acquisitions of ARI and Mediq, respectively. The $13.2 million of goodwill resulting from the

84 

Table of Contents   

NaviCare acquisition included $1.7 million representing the initial investment in NaviCare made
during 2003.

Costs associated with internal use software are recorded in accordance with American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 98-1,  Accounting for Costs of Computer Software
Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.  Certain expenditures relating to the development of
software for internal use are capitalized in accordance with this Statement, including applicable
costs associated with the implementation/upgrade of our Enterprise Resource Planning system. The
net book value of computer software costs, included within Intangible assets, was $89.6 million and
$97.0 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Capitalized software costs are
amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from five to ten years once the software is
ready for its intended use. Amortization expense approximated $15.0 million, $15.2 million and
$13.2 million for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and is included in the
amortization expense above.

Guarantees 

We routinely grant limited warranties on our products with respect to defects in material and
workmanship. The terms of these warranties are generally one year, however, certain components and
products have substantially longer warranty periods. We recognize a reserve with respect to these
obligations at the time of product sale, with subsequent warranty claims recorded directly against
the reserve. The amount of the warranty reserve is determined based on historical trend experience
for the covered products. For more significant warranty-related matters which might require a
broad-based correction, separate reserves are established when such events are identified and the
cost of correction can be reasonably estimated.

A reconciliation of changes in our warranty reserve for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 is as
follows:

In the normal course of business we enter into various other guarantees and indemnities in our
relationships with suppliers, service providers, customers, business partners and others. Examples
of these arrangements would include guarantees of product performance, indemnifications to service
providers and indemnifications of our actions to business partners. These guarantees and
indemnifications would not materially impact our financial condition or results of operations,
although indemnifications associated with our actions generally have no dollar limitations.

In conjunction with our acquisition and divestiture activities, we have entered into select
guarantees and indemnifications of performance with respect to the fulfillment of our commitments
under applicable purchase and sale agreements. The arrangements generally indemnify the buyer or
seller for damages associated with breach of contract, inaccuracies in representations and
warranties surviving the closing date and satisfaction of liabilities and commitments retained
under the applicable contract. For those representations and warranties that survive closing, they
generally survive for periods up to five years or the expiration of the applicable statutes of
limitations. Potential losses under the indemnifications

85 

Table of Contents   

are generally limited to a portion of the original transaction price, or to other lesser specific
dollar amounts for select provisions. With respect to sale transactions, we also routinely enter
into non-competition agreements for varying periods of time. Guarantees and indemnifications with
respect to acquisition and divestiture activities, if triggered, could have a materially adverse
impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

Environmental Liabilities 

Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations, and which do not
contribute to current or future revenue generation, are expensed. A reserve is established when it
is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
estimated. These reserves are determined without consideration of possible loss recoveries from
third parties. More specifically, financial management, in consultation with its environmental
engineer, estimates the range of liability based on current interpretations of environmental laws
and regulations. For each site in which a Company unit is involved, a determination is made of the
specific measures that are believed to be required to remediate the site, the estimated total cost
to carry out the remediation plan and the periods in which we will make payments toward the
remediation plan. We do not make an estimate of general or specific inflation for environmental
matters since the number of sites is small, the magnitude of costs to execute remediation plans is
not significant and the estimated time frames to remediate sites are not believed to be lengthy.

Specific costs included in environmental expense and reserves include site assessment, development
of a remediation plan, clean-up costs, post-remediation expenditures, monitoring, fines, penalties
and legal fees. Reserve amounts represent the expected undiscounted future cash outflows
associated with such plans and actions.

Expenditures that relate to current operations are charged to expense.

Self Insurance 

Since December 1999, we have purchased deductible reimbursement policies from our wholly-owned
insurance company, Sycamore Insurance Company, for the deductibles and self-insured retentions
associated with our product/general liability, workers  compensation, auto liability and
professional liability insurance programs. These policies have deductibles and self-insured
retentions ranging from $150 thousand to $1.5 million per occurrence, depending upon the type of
coverage and policy period. Our policy is to estimate reserves based upon a number of factors
including known claims, estimated incurred but not reported claims and outside actuarial analysis,
which are based on historical information along with certain assumptions about future events. The
estimated reserves for self insurance are classified as Other Current Liabilities and Other
Long-Term Liabilities within the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

We are also self-insured up to certain limits for certain employee health benefits including
medical, drug and dental. In a similar manner as described above, reserves are estimated based on
a number of relevant factors, and corresponding liabilities are included in the accompanying
financial statements. We also carry stop-loss insurance coverage to mitigate severe losses under
our self-insured health plans.

We carry fully insured life, vision and disability insurance coverage for our eligible workforce,
which are not covered under the aforementioned self-insured health plans.

Revenue Recognition   Sales and Rentals 

Net revenues reflect gross revenues less sales discounts and allowances and customer returns for
product sales and a provision for uncollectible receivables for rentals. Revenue is evaluated
under the following criteria and recognized when each is met:

86 

Table of Contents   

Evidence of an arrangement: An agreement with the customer
reflecting the terms and conditions to deliver products or
services serves as evidence of an arrangement. 

Delivery: For products, delivery is considered to occur upon
receipt by the customer and the transfer of title and risk of
loss. For rental services, delivery is considered to occur
when the services are rendered. 

Fixed or determinable price: The sales price is considered
fixed or determinable if it is not subject to refund or
adjustment. 

Collection is deemed probable: At or prior to the time of a
transaction, credit reviews of each customer are performed to
determine the creditworthiness of the customer. Collection is
deemed probable if the customer is expected to be able to pay
amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If
collection is not probable, revenue is recognized when
collection becomes probable, generally upon cash collection. 

As a general interpretation of the above guidelines, revenues for health care products in the
patient care environment and for casket and cremation products in the funeral services portion of
our business are generally recognized upon delivery of the products to the customer and their
assumption of risk of loss and other risks and rewards of ownership. Local business customs and
non-standard sales terms can sometimes result in deviations to this normal practice in certain
instances; however, in no case is revenue recognized prior to the transfer of risk of loss and
rewards of ownership.

For non-invasive therapy products within our health care business, the majority of product
offerings are rental products for which revenues are recognized consistent with the rendering of
the service and use of products. For The Vest    product, revenue is generally recognized at
the time of receipt of authorization for billing from the applicable paying entity as this serves
as evidence of the arrangement and sets a fixed or determinable price.

For health care products and services aimed at improving operational efficiency and asset
utilization, various revenue recognition techniques are used, depending on the offering.
Arrangements to provide services, routinely under separately sold service and maintenance
contracts, result in the deferral of revenues until specified services are performed. Service
contract revenue is generally recognized ratably over the contract period, if applicable, or as
services are rendered. Product-related goods are generally recognized upon delivery to the
customer, similar to products in the patient care environment.

Revenues are presented in the Statements of Consolidated Income (Loss) net of certain discounts and
allowances. For product sales, based on contractual discounts and rebates, as well as estimated
early pay discounts, price concessions and product returns, we record reserves resulting in a
reduction of revenue. Likewise, reserves for contractual and other routine billing allowances are
recorded and reflected as a reduction of rental revenues.

An allowance for doubtful accounts is also recorded, but is not reflected as a reduction of
revenues. Rather it is recorded as a component of operating expenses.

Cost of Revenues 

Cost of goods sold for both Health Care and Funeral Services sales consists primarily of purchased
material costs, fixed manufacturing expense, variable direct labor, overhead costs and costs
associated with the distribution and delivery of products to our customers. Health Care rental
expenses consist of costs associated directly with rental revenue, including depreciation,
maintenance costs related to our rental units, service center facility and personnel costs and
logistics costs related to the movement and delivery of our rental equipment.

87 

Table of Contents   

Research and Development Costs 

Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and were $42.1 million, $50.5 million and
$55.8 million for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Advertising Costs 

Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and were $6.3 million, $8.6 million and $7.3 million for
fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Comprehensive Income 

SFAS No. 130,  Reporting Comprehensive Income,  requires the net-of-tax effect of unrealized gains
or losses on our available-for-sale securities, foreign currency translation adjustments and
minimum pension liability adjustments to be included in Comprehensive Income.

The composition of Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income at September 30, 2006 and 2005 is
the net unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities of $3.4 million and $8.9
million, foreign currency translation adjustments of ($0.5) million and ($1.6) million, and a
minimum pension liability of ($3.2) million and ($6.8) million, respectively.

Foreign Currency Translation 

The functional currency of foreign operations is generally the local currency in the country of
domicile. Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are primarily translated into U.S. dollars
at year-end rates of exchange and the income statements are translated at the average rates of
exchange prevailing during the year. Adjustments resulting from translation of the financial
statements of foreign operations into U.S. dollars are excluded from the determination of net
income, but included as a component of other comprehensive income. Foreign currency gains and
losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in results of operations and are
not material.

Stock-Based Compensation 

Prior to fiscal 2006, we applied the provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No.
25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees , in accounting for stock-based compensation. As a
result, no compensation expense was recognized for stock options granted with exercise prices
equivalent to the fair market value of the stock on date of grant. Compensation expense was
recognized on other forms of stock-based compensation, including stock and performance-based awards
and units. Effective October 1, 2005, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 123(R),  Share Based Payment,  using the modified prospective application method. Under
this method, as of October 1, 2005, we applied the provisions of this Statement to new and modified
awards, as well as to the nonvested portion of awards granted before the required effective date
and outstanding at such time. The adoption of this pronouncement had no effect on compensation
cost recorded in fiscal years 2005 and 2004 related to stock options, which will continue to be
disclosed on a pro forma basis only.

Some of our stock-based compensation awards, including both stock options and restricted stock
units (RSUs), or deferred stock awards, have a retirement eligible provision, whereby awards
granted to employees who have reached the age of 55, have provided five years of service, and have
completed at least one year of service following the grant date of the award, automatically vest
when they retire from the Company. We had previously accounted for this type of arrangement by
recognizing compensation cost (for both pro forma and expense recognition purposes) over the full
stated vesting period of the award and, if the employee retired before the end of the vesting
period, recognizing any remaining unrecognized compensation cost at the date of retirement. Upon
adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), new awards granted to retirement eligible employees are subject to
accelerated vesting over a period when the employee s retention of the award is no longer
contingent on providing additional service.

88 

Table of Contents   

Recognizing that many companies followed the approach formerly used by the Company, the SEC issued
guidance on converting to accelerated vesting for the remaining portion of unvested outstanding
awards. Our transition to this new accelerated vesting was negligible due to our decision to
accelerate the vesting of underwater stock options in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 as outlined
below and the relatively recent introduction of RSUs.

An additional requirement of SFAS No. 123(R) is that estimated forfeitures be considered in
determining compensation expense. As previously permitted, we recorded forfeitures when they
occurred. Primarily due to our decision to accelerate the vesting of underwater stock options, the
cumulative effect of this accounting change on existing nonvested stock compensation was negligible
and was recorded as part of operating expenses.

On September 1, 2005, we accelerated the vesting of certain unvested and underwater options
previously awarded to employees, officers, and other eligible participants under our stock option
plans. As such, we fully vested options to purchase 793,117 shares of our common stock with
exercise prices greater than or equal to $50.48 per share. There was no expense recognition under
the intrinsic value method to our Statements of Consolidated Income (Loss) as a result of this
action. The total avoided future compensation expense of $3.5 million (net-of-tax) on the
acceleration of these options appears as a pro forma expense in the fourth quarter of 2005, as
permitted in guidance provided by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB).

The purpose of the accelerated vesting of these options was to reduce our future reported
compensation expense upon the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) in the first quarter of 2006.
Additionally, the accelerated underwater stock options may not have been fully achieving their
original objectives of incentive compensation and employee retention. The acceleration may have
had a positive effect on employee morale, retention and perception of value. Our Board of
Directors believed, based on the potential expense savings and the current intrinsic and perceived
value of the accelerated stock options, that the acceleration was in the best interests of the
Company and its Shareholders.

As a result of adopting SFAS No. 123(R) on October 1, 2005, our income before income taxes and net
income for the year ended September 30, 2006, are $1.6 million and $1.0 million lower,
respectively, than if we had continued to account for share-based compensation under APB Opinion
No. 25. The effect on basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was $0.01 as
a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R).

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), we presented all tax benefits of deductions resulting
from the exercise of stock options as operating cash flows in the Statements of Consolidated Cash
Flows. SFAS No. 123(R) requires cash flows resulting from tax deductions in excess of recognized
compensation cost from the exercise of stock options (excess tax benefits) to be classified as
financing cash flows. This change in classification was immaterial to our Statements of
Consolidated Cash Flows in the current period.

The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share as if we had
applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation , to all stock-based employee compensation programs for fiscal years 2005 and 2004.
The fair values of stock option grants are estimated on the date of grant. Prior to fiscal year
2005 we used the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, but all stock options granted subsequent to
October 1, 2004 are valued with the Binomial option-pricing model. Our Binomial model incorporates
the possibility of early exercise of options into the valuation, as well as our historical exercise
and termination experience to determine the option value. For these reasons, we believe the
Binomial model provides a fair value that is more representative of actual historical experience
than the value calculated under the Black-Scholes model. Because of the change in expense
recognition for retirement eligible employees, the application of estimated forfeitures, the 2005
acceleration of vesting on underwater stock options, the fact that our options vest over three
years and additional stock-based compensation grants have been made subsequent to the

89 

Table of Contents   

adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the results of expensing stock-based compensation in future periods
may have a materially different effect on net income than that presented below. See Note 11 for
more details.

Income Taxes 

The Company and its eligible domestic subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. income tax return.
Foreign operations file income tax returns in a number of jurisdictions. Deferred income taxes are
computed in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes  and reflect the net tax
effects of temporary differences between the financial reporting carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities and the corresponding income tax amounts. We have a variety of deferred tax assets in
numerous tax jurisdictions. These deferred tax assets are subject to periodic assessment as to
recoverability and if it is determined that it is more likely than not that the benefits will not
be realized, valuation allowances are recognized. In evaluating whether it is more likely than not
that we would recover these deferred tax assets, future taxable income, the reversal of existing
temporary differences and tax planning strategies are considered.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activity 

We use derivative financial instruments to manage the economic impact of fluctuations in currency
exchange rates and interest rates. To account for our derivative financial instruments, we follow
the provisions of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,  as
amended by SFAS No. 137 and SFAS No. 138. Derivative financial instruments are recognized on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets as either assets or liabilities and are measured at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in earnings or Accumulated other
comprehensive income, depending on whether a derivative is designated and effective as part of a
hedge transaction, and if it is, the type of hedge transaction. Gains and losses on derivative
instruments reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income are subsequently included in
earnings in the periods in which earnings are affected by the hedged item. Our use of derivatives
has generally been limited to interest rate swaps, but in fiscal 2006 we also began using
derivative instruments to manage our cash flow exposure from changes in currency exchange rates in
certain jurisdictions. These activities have not had a material effect on our financial position
or results of operations for the periods presented herein.

90 

Table of Contents   

Insurance Liabilities, Recognition of Insurance Policy Income, and Related Benefits and Expenses
(applicable solely to Forethought) 

Prior to their divestiture, Forethought s life insurance subsidiaries sold long-duration insurance
contracts. Revenue was recognized on amounts charged to the insurance liabilities for current
benefits and expenses. Premiums received in excess of the portion required to provide future
benefits and current expenses were deferred and also recognized as revenue over the actuarially
determined life of the contract. Benefit reserves equaled the cash surrender values provided in
the contracts. Expenses were recorded for interest credited to the benefit reserve, death benefits
paid in excess of the benefit reserves and amortization of deferred acquisition costs. See Note 3
for further details related to the disposition of Forethought.

Deferred Acquisition Costs (applicable solely to Forethought) 

Prior to their divestiture, Forethought s policy acquisition costs consisted of commissions,
certain policy issue expenses and premium taxes. Such costs varied with, and were primarily
related to, the production of new business. These deferred acquisition costs were being amortized
consistently with unearned revenues. Amortization charged to expense by our former insurance
subsidiary for fiscal year 2004 was $45.9 million. See Note 3 for further details related to the
disposition of Forethought.

Revision 

In order to better align the presentation of our cost structure between cost of goods sold and
operating expenses, we have made revisions to the classification of certain costs within our
Consolidated Statement of Income (Loss). All product distribution costs, which were previously
included as a component of operating expenses, are now included within costs of goods sold. This
is consistent with the previous classification of distribution and logistics costs associated with
Health Care rentals. With respect to rental sales costs, including commissions, these costs are
now reflected as a component of operating expenses. This is consistent with the previous
classification of selling expenses associated with Health Care and Funeral Services sales. These
revisions offer a better reflection of true product sourcing and delivery costs, improve the
consistency of the classification of such costs within our various revenue streams and also
generally increase the comparability of our results with those of our peers. The classification of
certain prior year amounts has been revised for all periods presented to conform to the current
year s presentation. Distribution costs of $110.9 million and $109.5 million were moved from
operating expenses to cost of goods sold for fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively, and $70.5
million and $62.3 million of rental sales expenses were moved from cost of goods sold to operating
expenses for these same periods. In addition, $7.3 million and $5.5 million of sustaining
engineering costs and product installation costs were moved from operating expenses to health care
cost of sales for 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Certain immaterial prior year balance sheets amounts have also been revised to conform to the
current year s presentation, including appropriately reflecting $5.5 million of stock-based accrued
compensation as equity rather than as an accrued liability on the 2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet.

These revisions had no impact on operating income (loss), cash flows or earnings per share.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards 

In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143, Accounting for Asset
Retirement Obligations  ( FIN 47 ). FIN 47 clarifies the term  conditional asset retirement
obligation  and requires a liability to be recorded for a conditional obligation if the fair value
of the obligation can be reasonably estimated. FIN 47 was effective for the Company beginning in
the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, and adoption did not have a material effect on our
Consolidated Financial Statements.

91 

Table of Contents   

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48 ), which clarifies the accounting for
income taxes by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold as  more-likely-than-not  that a tax
position must meet before being recognized in the financial statements. FIN 48 also provides
guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting for income taxes in
interim periods, financial statement disclosures and transition rules. This Interpretation is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. As such, we are required to adopt
FIN 48 by October 1, 2007. We will evaluate the effect of this Interpretation on our Consolidated
Financial Statements and Results of Operations.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements,  which defines fair
value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles
and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This Statement does not require any new
fair value measurements, but provides guidance on how to measure fair value by providing a fair
value hierarchy used to classify the source of the information. SFAS No. 157 is effective for
financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim periods
within those fiscal years. The adoption of SFAS No. 157 is not expected to have a material impact
on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations.

In September 2006, the FASB also issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and
132(R).  This Statement requires recognition of the funded status of a benefit plan in the
statement of financial position. SFAS No. 158 also requires recognition in other comprehensive
income of certain gains and losses that arise during the period but are deferred under pension
accounting rules, as well as modifies the timing of reporting and adds certain disclosures. The
Statement provides recognition and disclosure elements to be effective as of the end of the fiscal
year after December 15, 2006 and measurement elements to be effective for fiscal years ending after
December 15, 2008. We have not yet analyzed the impact SFAS No. 158 will have on our consolidated
financial statements or results of operations. For additional information about our retirement
plans, see Note 6.

2. Acquisitions 

The results of acquired businesses are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements since each
acquisition s date of close.

On January 30, 2004, Hill-Rom acquired Mediq, a company in the medical equipment outsourcing and
asset management business. This acquisition expanded Hill-Rom s product and service offerings,
strengthened its after-sales service capabilities and allowed increased leverage of Hill-Rom s
global rental service center network.

The purchase price for Mediq was $328.9 million, plus an additional $5.9 million of acquisition
costs incurred in relation to the transaction. This purchase price was subject to certain
adjustments based upon the Mediq balance sheet at the date of close. Upon finalization of the
funded status of the Mediq defined benefit pension plan, $7.3 million of the purchase price was
returned to Hill-Rom in 2006, which was recorded as a reduction of goodwill. Also in 2006, $3.9
million of goodwill related to Mediq was reduced as we were able to recognize certain tax
attributes that were originally recorded with a full valuation allowance. Any additional reversals
of tax reserves related to Mediq would be recognized as a reduction of goodwill.

92 

Table of Contents   

If the Mediq acquisition had been completed as of the beginning of 2004, reported results for
fiscal 2004 would have increased as follows (Dollars in millions, except per share data):

The net income and diluted earnings per share amounts for the period presented above include the
additional depreciation and amortization expense resulting from the purchase of property and
intangibles at fair value, but exclude the impact of financing costs associated with the Mediq
acquisition.

Also in early fiscal 2004, Hill-Rom completed the acquisitions of ARI and the remaining 84 percent
of the equity of NaviCare that we did not already own. The purchase price for ARI was $103.0
million, plus an additional $2.2 million of acquisition costs incurred in the transaction. The
purchase price for NaviCare was $14.1 million.

Based on the acquisition dates of ARI and NaviCare and the timing of their inclusion in our
Consolidated Financial Statements, the acquisitions as of the beginning of the 2004 fiscal year
would not have materially impacted our financial results for the year then ended.

In March 2006, Batesville Casket made an acquisition of a small regional casket distributor.
Goodwill of $1.6 million was recorded on the transaction. If the purchase had occurred at the
beginning of fiscal 2006, the impact to our results of operations and financial condition would not
have been material.

3. Discontinued Operations 

On July 1, 2004, we closed the sale of Forethought Financial Services, Inc. to FFS Holdings, Inc.,
an acquisition vehicle formed by the Devlin Group, LLC., which acquired all the common stock of
Forethought and its subsidiaries for a combination of cash, seller financing, certain retained
assets of Forethought and stock warrants. Total nominal consideration for the transaction was
$295.1 million, including the value of the partnership assets transferred to us and excluding a
dividend received by us in December 2003 from Forethought in the amount of $28.6 million made in
anticipation of the transaction. Hillenbrand received cash proceeds in the transaction of $104.9
million, provided seller financing in various forms (See Notes 1 and 4 for additional details) with
an estimated face value of $151.4 million, retained specific investments in limited equity
partnership assets of Forethought with a book value of $31.4 million and received warrants to
acquire up to 5 percent of the common stock of FFS Holdings, Inc. An additional cash payment of
$6.5 million was received in January 2006 following the Office of Thrift Supervision approval of
the sale of Forethought Federal Savings Bank at the end of December 2005. The seller financing
provided in this sale was subject to a discount of $28.9 million to reflect a market rate of return
on the financing, which is now being recognized as accretion on the underlying financial
instruments.

The sale of Forethought Federal Savings Bank was completed on January 3, 2006. We recognized a
loss on this transaction of $0.6 million (net-of-tax) in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.

The divestiture of Forethought resulted in a significant impairment loss. While this loss
generated significant tax benefits, as a result of limitations on our ability to utilize capital
losses it is more likely than not that we will not realize these benefits and a full valuation
allowance has been provided. Therefore, tax benefits recognized in conjunction with the sale have
been generally limited to ordinary losses. Additional tax benefits may be recognized in the future
should we generate capital gains sufficient to utilize the resulting losses. In conjunction

93 

Table of Contents   

with this divestiture, in the three months ended March 31, 2004 we recognized a loss on the
impairment of the discontinued net assets of Forethought of $95.8 million, net-of-tax, consisting
of a $129.0 million pre-tax loss and a $33.2 million income tax benefit. In the fourth quarter of
2004, this loss was adjusted to $88.6 million, net-of-tax, as a result of the book value at the
date of close.

On June 29, 2004, Forethought sold specific real estate partnerships that were part of their
investment portfolio and were originally expected to be retained by Hillenbrand at closing.
Forethought received $104.2 million in cash proceeds on the sale and recorded a capital loss on the
transaction of $7.2 million. The loss realized as a result of this transaction was included in
discontinued operations for year ended September 30, 2004.

In October 2003, Hill-Rom sold its piped-medical gas business to Beacon Medical Products LLC, for
$13 million, after final purchase price adjustments, resulting in a net gain of $5.3 million. The
piped-medical gas business provided medical gas delivery and management systems in acute care
facilities.

In the third fiscal quarter of 2004, Hill-Rom closed on the sale of its Air-Shields infant care
business to a subsidiary of Dr ger Medical AG   Co. KGaA for approximately $26 million. Additional
proceeds of $5.0 million were received in the fourth quarter upon the final transfer of an
investment, bringing the total proceeds to $31 million and the net gain realized on the disposal to
$13.0 million. Air-Shields provided infant care warming therapy, incubators and other infant care
products.

Upon approval of the Board of Directors and the signing of the definitive sale agreements,
Hill-Rom s infant care and piped-medical gas businesses and Forethought, a provider of pre-need
insurance to fund funeral and cemetery costs, were all treated as discontinued operations for all
periods presented within the Statements of Consolidated Income (Loss) in accordance with the
provisions of SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets .

Operating results for the discontinued operations were as follows for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and
2004:

94 

Table of Contents   

The assets and liabilities of Forethought Federal Savings Bank were included in the assets and
liabilities of discontinued operations, which were presented on separate line items within the
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2005. Components of assets and liabilities of
discontinued operations were as follows:

In terms of operating cash flows, because Forethought operated in a regulated environment its cash
flows were generally neutral to Hillenbrand. Hillenbrand also in the past made capital
contributions to and received dividends from Forethought, thereby impacting our overall cash
position. In the first quarter of fiscal 2004, we received a dividend of $28.6 million from
Forethought. Cash flows from the piped-medical gas and infant care businesses generally
approximated net income.

4. Notes Receivable 

Notes receivable as of September 30, 2006 and 2005 consist of the following:

We have a number of notes with customers of Batesville Casket and Hill-Rom associated with amounts
owed on product sales. These notes generally carry repayment terms up to 5 years, with interest
rates varying from zero percent to 12 percent. The notes that carry below market interest rates
are discounted using current market interest rates. The current portion of these notes are included
in Trade accounts receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

95 

Table of Contents   

On July 1, 2004 we closed on the sale of Forethought to FFS Holdings, Inc. As part of the
consideration received in the transaction, we provided seller financing in the form of a note
receivable with a face value of $107.7 million. This note carries an increasing rate of interest
over its ten-year term, with interest accruing at 6 percent for the first five years and
compounding semi-annually. No payments are due under the note until fiscal 2010 at which time
annual payments of $10 million are required, with all remaining amounts, including unpaid interest,
due at maturity.

Additional financing was also provided in the form of a $15.0 million debt service account
associated with third-party secured financing obtained by FFS Holdings, Inc. under the transaction.
We are scheduled to receive payments from this account beginning in fiscal 2007, at which time it
will become subject to interest, with final repayment due in fiscal 2012.

Should Forethought fail to perform consistent with the original expectations set forth by FFS
Holdings, Inc. or underperform to an extent that it cannot meet its financial obligations, our
earnings could be negatively impacted resulting in an adverse impact on our financial condition and
results of operations.

5. Financing Agreements 

Long-Term Debt 

Long-term debt consists of the following:

On July 14, 2003, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission on Form S-3 for the potential future sale of up to $1.0 billion in debt and/or
equity securities. The registration statement is effective and should provide us with significant
flexibility with respect to our access to the public markets. However, there can be no assurance
that additional financing under the universal shelf registration statement or elsewhere will be
available at terms acceptable to us.

On June 7, 2004, we issued $250 million of 4.5 percent coupon senior notes due 2009 under the
universal shelf registration statement, leaving $750 million of available capacity under the
universal registration statement. The net proceeds from this borrowing were utilized to
permanently finance the Mediq acquisition.

Beginning in June 2004, $200 million of our senior notes maturing on June 15, 2009 were subject to
interest rate swap agreements, which effectively converts that portion of the senior notes from
fixed to variable interest rates. For the 2006, 2005 and 2004 periods in which the interest rate
swap agreements were outstanding, the average variable interest rate on debt covered by the swaps
approximated 4.9 percent, 2.9 percent and 1.7 percent, respectively. As of September 30, 2006, the
interest rate swap contracts reflected a cumulative loss of $4.3 million, compared to a cumulative
loss of $1.3 million as of September 30, 2005.

96 

Table of Contents   

Near the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2003, we terminated our then outstanding interest
rate swap agreements on longer maturity coupon debt, realizing cash proceeds and deferred gains of
$26.5 million. In June 2004, we also completed the open market repurchase of $47.3 million
principal amount of such debt for $55.1 million. Upon completion of this repurchase, $2.2 million
of the deferred gains related to the termination of the interest rate swap agreements were
recognized, reducing the loss on repurchase of the debt to $6.4 million, which included the
write-off of $0.7 million of debt issuance costs associated with the original debt placement. As
of September 30, 2006 and 2005 total deferred gains were $6.1 million and $7.1 million,
respectively. The deferred gains on the termination of the swaps are being amortized and
recognized as a reduction of interest expense over the remaining term of the related debt through
2011 and 2024. With the gains from the swap agreements, the prospective effective interest rates
will be lower than the stated interest rates.

Other Borrowings 

On July 28, 2004, we entered into a $400 million five-year senior revolving credit facility with a
syndicate of banks led by Bank of America, N.A. and Citigroup North America, Inc. The term of the
five-year facility expires on June 1, 2009. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at
variable rates, as defined therein. The availability of borrowings under the five-year facility is
subject to our ability at the time of borrowing to meet certain specified conditions. These
conditions include a maximum debt to capital ratio of 55 percent, absence of default under the
facility and continued accuracy of certain representations and warranties contained in the credit
facility. The proceeds of the five-year facility may be used: (i) for working capital, capital
expenditure, and other lawful corporate purposes; and (ii) to finance acquisitions.

As of September 30, 2006, we: (i) had $14.3 million of outstanding, undrawn letters of credit under
the five-year facility, (ii) were in compliance with all conditions set forth under the credit
facility, and (iii) had complete access to the remaining $385.7 million of borrowing capacity
available under the credit facility.

We have trade finance credit lines totaling $16.0 million that have no commitment fees or
compensating balance requirements and are renewed annually. As of September 30, 2006 and 2005 we
had $10.4 million and $5.5 million, respectively, outstanding under this credit line as reflected
in Short-term borrowings in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, as of September 30,
2006, we had $13.6 million of outstanding, undrawn letters of credit under an uncommitted credit
line of $20.0 million that has no commitment fees, compensating balance requirements or fixed
expiration dates.

We also have a capital lease obligation related to a portion of our French manufacturing facility.
As of September 30, 2006 and 2005 we had outstanding obligations of $0.9 million and $1.4 million,
respectively. These amounts are classified within Short-term borrowings and Other Long-Term
Liabilities within our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

6. Retirement Plans 

Hillenbrand and its subsidiaries have several defined benefit retirement plans covering
approximately 70 percent of employees, including certain employees in foreign countries. At a
minimum, we contribute funds to trusts as necessary to provide for current service and for any
unfunded projected future benefit obligation over a reasonable period. The benefits for these
plans are based primarily on years of service and the employee s level of compensation during
specific periods of employment. We acquired Mediq on January 30, 2004, including its retirement
plans. All of our plans have a September 30 measurement date.

97 

Table of Contents   

Effect on Operations 

The components of net pension expense for defined benefit retirement plans in the United States for
fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:

Obligations and Funded Status 

The change in benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status, along with amounts recognized in
the Consolidated Balance Sheets for our domestic defined benefit retirement plans at September 30
were as follows:

98 

Table of Contents   

For most of our defined benefit retirement plans, the fair value of plan assets was less than the
accumulated benefit obligation as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, resulting in the recognition of
minimum pension liabilities of $5.3 million and $9.9 million, respectively. As of September 30,
2006, the fair value of plan assets exceeded the accumulated benefit obligation for our master
defined benefit plan. The decrease noted in the recognized additional minimum pension liabilities
related to the lower benefit obligation in fiscal 2006 resulting from the higher discount rate used
to value the obligation, as outlined below in Actuarial Assumptions.

Accumulated Benefit Obligation 

The accumulated benefit obligation for all domestic defined benefit pension plans was $318.4
million and $322.4 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Selected information for our domestic plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan
assets at September 30, 2006 and 2005, was as follows:

Actuarial Assumptions 

The weighted average assumptions used in accounting for our domestic qualified pension plans were
as follows:

The discount rates presented above and used in the valuation of our defined benefit pension plans
are evaluated annually based on current market conditions. In setting these rates we utilize
long-term bond indices and yield curves as a preliminary indication of interest rate movements, and
then make adjustments to the respective indices to reflect differences in the terms of the bonds
covered under the indices in comparison to the projected outflow of our pension obligations. The
overall expected long-term rate of return is based on historical and expected future returns, which
are inflation adjusted and weighted for the expected return for each component of the investment
portfolio. The rate of assumed compensation increase is also based on our specific historical
trends of past wage adjustments in recent years.

Plan Assets 

The weighted average asset allocations of our domestic defined benefit plans at September 30, 2006
and 2005, by asset category, are as follows:

99 

Table of Contents   

The investment strategies and policies are set by the plans  fiduciaries. Long-term strategic
investment objectives utilize a diversified mix of equity and fixed income securities to preserve
the funded status of the trusts and balance risk and return. The plan fiduciaries oversee the
investment allocation process, which includes selecting investment managers, setting long-term
strategic targets and monitoring asset allocations. Target allocation ranges are guidelines, not
limitations, and plan fiduciaries may occasionally approve allocations above or below a target
range or elect to rebalance the portfolio within the targeted range.

Trust assets are invested subject to the following policy restrictions: short-term securities must
be rated A2/P2 or higher; all fixed-income securities shall have a credit quality rating  BBB  or
higher; investments in equities in any one company may not exceed 10 percent of the equity
portfolio. Hillenbrand common stock represented 5 percent and 4 percent of trust assets at
year-end 2006 and 2005, respectively, and is subject to a statutory limit when it reaches 10
percent of total trust assets.

Cash Flows 

We expect to contribute approximately $2.1 million to our domestic defined benefit plans in fiscal
year 2007.

In June 2005, we fully funded our master defined benefit retirement plan by contributing
approximately $75.5 million. As a result, future funding requirements associated with this plan
will be reduced. We do not anticipate contributing any additional funds to the master plan during
fiscal year 2007.

Estimated Future Benefit Payments 

The benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, are expected to be paid as follows (in
millions):

Other 

During fiscal year 2005, we amended the terms of one of our defined benefit pension plans for
select bargaining unit employees to improve early retirement benefits. We also recognized
curtailment losses within two of our defined benefit pension plans related to the closing of our
Nashua, New Hampshire wood casket manufacturing plant and a reduction in plan participants in
another plan resulting from our 2005 restructuring activities.

Subsequent to the January 30, 2004 acquisition of Mediq, we amended the Mediq pension plan to
freeze all benefits effective April 30, 2004.

Employees hired after June 30, 2003 are no longer eligible for participation in the master defined
benefit retirement plan, but participate in a new 401(k) retirement program that began January 1,
2004. Existing employees and those hired up to July 1, 2003 were given the opportunity to choose
to continue participating in the master defined benefit retirement pension plan and the existing
401(k) plan or to participate in the new 401(k) retirement program. Elections were completed as of
September 30, 2003, and became effective January 1, 2004.

100 

Table of Contents   

For those employees that elected to continue participation in the defined benefit pension plan,
there were no changes in benefits and all service is recognized as credited service under the plan.
For those who elected the new 401(k) retirement program, benefits under the defined benefit
pension plan were frozen and will be paid out in accordance with the plan provisions with future
service considered only under the new 401(k) retirement program.

In addition to the above plans, we have an unfunded liability for defined benefit pension plans in
Germany and France. The unfunded benefit obligation for these plans, which are included primarily
in Other Long-Term Liabilities, was $11.9 million and $11.3 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. Pension expense was immaterial in all reporting periods.

We also sponsor several defined contribution plans covering certain of our employees. Employer
contributions are made to these plans based on a percentage of employee compensation. The cost of
these defined contribution plans was $15.0 million, $14.7 million and $12.8 million for fiscal
years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

7. Shareholders  Equity 

One million shares of preferred stock, without par value, have been authorized and none have been
issued.

As of September 30, 2006, the Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase, from time-to-time,
of up to 24,289,067 shares of the Company s stock. Effective October 26, 2006, the Board of
Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 1,421,600 shares. The purchased shares will
be used for general corporate purposes. As of September 30, 2006, a total of 22,710,667 shares had
been purchased at market trading prices, of which 18,908,598 shares remain in treasury.

8. Special Charges 

2006 Actions 

In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2006, we initiated restructuring actions taken to primarily
right-size Hill-Rom s North America field service organization in response to declines in rental
revenue. This restructuring will result in the elimination of approximately 140 positions and the
rationalization of certain rental product offerings which are no longer strategically necessary,
and resulted in a one-time charge of $4.2 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. The cash
component of this charge is $2.6 million and the majority is to be paid in the next twelve months.

Also during 2006, we recorded additional special charges related to the continuation of
restructuring activities in Europe, which commenced in the fourth quarter of 2005 and are discussed
below. These actions include an ongoing voluntary severance program at our French manufacturing
facility and the finalization of termination provisions related to certain international contract
obligations. Such amounts recorded during fiscal 2006 were as follows:

101 

Table of Contents   

2005 Actions 

During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2005, we announced several changes intended to simplify both
the corporate and Hill-Rom organizational structures and to support Hill-Rom s strategy to focus on
its core hospital bed frames, therapy support surfaces and services businesses, while remaining
flexible for future opportunities. As part of this change, Hill-Rom established two commercial
divisions, one focusing on North America and one focusing internationally, each including hospital
bed frames, therapy support surfaces and services businesses with supporting sales, marketing and
field service organizations. Hill-Rom also combined sourcing, manufacturing, and product
development under one new function to support these two commercial divisions. Home care products
and services and surgical accessories were combined under this structure into a separate, fully
integrated division. At the same time, all Hillenbrand corporate functions, including human
resources, finance, strategy, legal and information technology, were consolidated with those of
Hill-Rom.

In building on these announced changes and to further capitalize on the progress we had made with
the works council at our Pluvigner, France facility during the year with respect to voluntary
departures, we took additional restructuring actions in the United States and Europe during the
fourth quarter of 2005. These actions, which were approved by the Board of Directors on August 4,
2005, included the elimination of salaried and hourly positions in the United States and Europe,
the outsourcing of various products and sub-assembly parts, the impairment of certain assets no
longer considered necessary to the execution of our strategy and the termination of certain
contractual obligations. The reduction in employees participating in our Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plan as a result of these actions necessitated a curtailment charge of $1.2 million.
The collective cost of these actions resulted in a fourth quarter pre-tax charge of $30.8 million,
broken down by component as follows:

Pre-Tax Charge 

Severance and related benefits

$ 
     24.0 

Asset impairment

$ 
     4.8 

Contract termination costs

$ 
     0.8 

Curtailment charge

$ 
     1.2 

All of these actions were expected to be completed over the course of twelve months. All costs
other than those related to the impairment of assets were to be cash charges.

In addition to costs included directly in the fourth quarter charge, additional costs related
directly to these actions were also expected to be incurred over a twelve to eighteen month period,
most notably in Europe. These additional costs were originally estimated up to $10 million as the
voluntary severance program at our French manufacturing facility
continued to progress, but with the
additional amounts recognized in fiscal 2006 and changes in circumstances, the remaining amount to
be recognized is now estimated to range from $2 million to $4 million. Further, upon completion,
we expect to have eliminated up to 600 positions on a worldwide basis.

For an update on the status of reserves originally provided and those provided in fiscal 2006 under
these actions, see the table under 2006 Actions. Severance actions are now essentially complete,
with the exception of ongoing volunteer activity at our French manufacturing facility. With
respect to contract termination costs, all termination provisions have been finalized and payment
of the incurred penalties will be completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2007.

In conjunction with and as a result of the actions being taken in Europe, in the fourth quarter we
also wrote off $16.0 million of deferred tax assets. This write-off had no impact on cash. These
deferred tax assets were originally recognized in fiscal 2004 as part of a strategy to change the
structure of our French operations, including the creation of a new French entity and operating
structure. As a result of the restructuring actions outlined above,

102 

Table of Contents   

implementation of the tax
strategy was no longer economically prudent and the deferred tax assets were therefore written off.
It should also be noted that the majority of the pre-tax restructuring charge associated with
Europe was recorded without a tax benefit.

Also in the fourth quarter of 2005, Batesville Casket recorded a special charge of $0.8 million for
severance and benefit-related costs resulting from a right-sizing of the operation. All charges
associated with this action were paid in cash in fiscal 2006.

In the third fiscal quarter of 2005, we announced plans to close Batesville Casket s Nashua, New
Hampshire plant and consolidate Batesville s solid wood casket production into its Batesville,
Mississippi plant ( Panola ). The consolidation of the two plants resulted in a total pre-tax
charge of $4.5 million, that was realized through the completion of the consolidation in the second
quarter of fiscal 2006. Cash components of this charge included $2.3 million in employee-related
costs, including severance, pension and other termination benefits, and $1.6 million in costs
related to the transfer of equipment, training of employees and other associated costs. The
remaining $0.6 million consisted of non-cash charges resulting from the accelerated depreciation of
equipment and amortization of software. Approximately $2.8 million of this charge was incurred in
fiscal 2005, of which $1.5 million of severance and benefit costs was recorded as a special charge
in the third quarter. At September 30, 2006, $0.2 million remained in the reserve.

Additionally, in the third fiscal quarter of 2005 we announced the retirement of Frederick W.
Rockwood, former Chief Executive Officer. We incurred a charge of $2.4 million related to future
payments and other compensation related items under the terms of Mr. Rockwood s retirement
agreement. At September 30, 2006, $0.6 million remained in the reserve.

On March 22, 2005, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the U.S. Department of Justice
initiated a seizure at Vail Products, Inc., of Toledo, Ohio, on several models of an enclosure bed
system manufactured by Vail, and advised Vail s customers to cease using those beds immediately.
On June 24, 2005, the FDA announced that Vail Products was permanently ceasing the manufacture,
sale, and distribution of all Vail enclosed bed systems and would no longer be available to provide
accessories, replacement parts, or retrofit kits. Hill-Rom was a distributor of Vail products and
had a number of the affected beds in its rental fleet. In its role as a distributor, Hill-Rom
responded promptly to the FDA notification and permanently ceased all sale or rental of the
affected products. As a result, in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we recorded a $1.7 million
impairment on these assets.

2004 Actions 

During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2004, we announced a restructuring intended to better align
Hill-Rom s financial and personnel resources to fully support its strategic initiatives, decrease
overall costs, and improve overall performance in Europe. The plan included the expected
elimination of approximately 130 salaried positions in the U.S. and approximately 100 positions in
Europe and resulted in a fourth quarter charge of $7.1 million associated
with severance and benefit-related costs. In relation to this realignment, the Hillenbrand
corporate organization recorded an additional severance charge of $0.2 million. During fiscal
2006, $0.1 million of the originally recorded reserve was reversed, primarily related to the
transfer of personnel to other open positions within the organization, and this action is now
complete.

Other 

In addition to the reserve balances outlined above, $1.8 million of accrued liabilities were
outstanding at September 30, 2006 related to retirement obligations of W August Hillenbrand, a
former Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Mr. Hillenbrand retired in the fourth calendar
quarter of 2000.

103 

Table of Contents   

9. Income Taxes 

Income taxes are computed in accordance with SFAS No. 109. The significant components of income
(loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and the consolidated income tax provision
from continuing operations for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:

Differences between income tax expense (benefit) from continuing operations reported for financial
reporting purposes and that computed based upon the application of the statutory U.S. Federal tax
rate to the reported income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes for fiscal years
2006, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:

(a)  
       
      At statutory rate.  

(b)  
       
      Net of Federal benefit.  

(c)  
       
      Federal tax rate differential.  

104 

Table of Contents   

The tax effect of temporary differences that gave rise to the deferred tax balance sheet
accounts were as follows:

At September 30, 2006, we had $29.2 million of deferred tax assets related to operating loss
carryforwards and other tax attributes in foreign jurisdictions. These tax attributes are subject
to various carryforward periods ranging from 1 year to an unlimited period. We also had $54.0
million of deferred tax assets related to capital loss carryforwards, which expire between 2008 and
2009; $6.8 million of deferred tax assets related to domestic net operating loss carryforwards,
primarily for state income tax purposes, which expire between 2006 and 2025; $3.7 million of
deferred tax assets related to foreign tax credit carryforwards, which expire between 2011 and
2015; and $5.6 million of deferred tax assets related to alternative minimum tax credit
carryforwards, with no expiration date; and $0.5 million of deferred tax assets related to state
credits, which expire between 2010 and 2020.

The gross deferred tax assets as of September 30, 2006 were reduced by valuation allowances of
$90.6 million, relating to foreign operating loss carryforwards, foreign tax credit carryforwards,
capital loss carryforwards and state income tax operating loss carryforwards, as it is more likely
than not that some portion or all of these tax attributes will not be realized. The valuation
allowance was reduced by $21.8 million during fiscal 2006 due to limited releases of valuation
allowances on deferred tax assets realized or expected to be utilized and to a larger extent
resulting from the elimination of deferred tax assets on which full valuation allowances were
previously recorded. The elimination of these gross deferred tax assets related primarily to the
final accounting for state tax operating losses associated with our litigation settlement and the
impacts of audit adjustments on capital loss carryforwards.

As of September 30, 2004, we had developed a strategy to restructure our French operations. The
restructuring involved the creation of a new French entity and the conversion of the existing
French entities into a new operating structure. This resulted in the recognition of a related
deferred tax asset of $16.0 million. When this strategy was abandoned in 2005 as part of the
profit improvement initiatives being undertaken in France (see Note 8), the deferred tax asset was
written off.

Our income tax return filings are subject to audit by various taxing authorities. In fiscal 2006,
we recorded both benefits to income and additional accruals related to audit activity by the

105 

Table of Contents   

Internal Revenue Service and various states. The net effect of these adjustments was the
recognition of $1.4 million of tax benefit for fiscal 2006.

In evaluating whether it is more likely than not that we would recover our deferred tax assets,
future taxable income, the reversal of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies
were considered. We believe that our estimates for the valuation allowances recorded against
deferred tax assets are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances.

10. Earnings Per Common Share 

Basic earnings per share is calculated based upon the weighted average number of outstanding common
shares for the period, plus the effect of deferred vested shares. Diluted earnings per share is
calculated consistent with the basic earnings per share calculation plus the effect of dilutive
unissued common shares related to stock-based employee compensation programs. For all years
presented, anti-dilutive stock options were excluded in the calculation of dilutive earnings per
share. Excluded were 1,507,790 shares, 1,123,383 shares and 198,190 shares for fiscal years 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively. Cumulative treasury stock acquired, less cumulative shares reissued,
have been excluded in determining the average number of shares outstanding. For fiscal 2005, as a
result of our loss from continuing operations, to avoid dilution of the loss our basic and diluted
earnings per share are identical.

Earnings per share is calculated as follows:

11. Stock-Based Compensation 

Over time, we have had various stock-based compensation programs, the key components of which are
further described below. Our primary active stock-based compensation program is the Stock
Incentive Plan. All stock-based compensation programs are administered by the Board of Directors
or its Compensation and Management Development Committee.

106 

Table of Contents   

The Stock Incentive Plan, which was approved at the 2002 annual meeting of shareholders, replaced
the 1996 Stock Option Plan. Common shares reserved for issuance under the Stock Incentive Plan
total 5 million, plus 294,611 shares previously authorized but unissued under the 1996 Stock Option
Plan. The Stock Incentive Plan provides for long-term performance compensation for key employees
and members of the Board of Directors. A variety of discretionary awards for employees and
non-employee directors are authorized under the plan, including incentive or non-qualified stock
options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, deferred stock and bonus stock. The vesting
of such awards may be conditioned upon either a specified period of time or the attainment of
specific performance goals as determined by the administrator of the plan. The option price and
term are also subject to determination by the administrator with respect to each grant. Option
prices are generally expected to be set at the average fair market price at date of grant and
option terms are not expected to exceed ten years.

As of September 30, 2006, 2,472,068 option shares have been granted and 751,291 shares have been
cancelled under the Stock Incentive Plan. In addition, a total of 588,574 restricted stock units
(RSUs), or deferred stock awards, have been granted and 114,871 RSUs have been cancelled under the
Stock Incentive Plan. A total of 3,100,131 shares remain available for future grants under all
aspects of the Stock Incentive Plan.

The compensation cost that was charged against income for all plans was $6.2 million, $4.1 million
and $4.2 million for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The total
income tax benefit recognized in the income statement for stock compensation agreements was $2.3
million, $1.5 million and $1.6 million for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Had we
followed SFAS No. 123 instead of APB Opinion No. 25, and as disclosed in the additional pro forma
information in Note 1, we would have recorded additional net-of-tax charges of $7.3 million and
$5.1 million for the years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

We have a policy of repurchasing shares on the open market to satisfy stock option exercises and
stock distributions. At September 30, 2006, the Company holds 18,908,598 shares of Treasury Stock,
and therefore will not be required to purchase additional shares in fiscal 2007 to satisfy stock
option exercises and share distributions.

Stock Options 

The fair value of option grants under our Stock Incentive Plan and the predecessor 1996 Stock
Option Plan are estimated on the date of grant. Prior to fiscal year 2005 we used the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model, but all stock options granted subsequent to October 1, 2004 are
valued with the Binomial option-pricing model. Our Binomial model incorporates the possibility of
early exercise of options into the valuation, as well as our historical exercise and termination
experience to determine the option value. For these reasons, we believe the Binomial model
provides a fair value that is more representative of actual historical experience than the value
calculated under the Black-Scholes model. The weighted average fair value of options granted was
$12.21, $13.19 and $15.55 per share for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The
following assumptions were used in the determination of fair value in each period:

107 

Table of Contents   

The risk free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the
term of our employee stock options. The dividend yield assumption is based on the history and our
expectation of dividend payouts. Our computation of expected volatility for the valuation of stock
options granted is based on historical volatility. The expected life of employee stock options
represents the weighted average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding and is
a derived output of the binomial model. The expected life of employee stock options is impacted by
the above assumptions as well as the post-vesting forfeiture rate and the exercise factor used in
the binomial model. These two variables are based on the history of exercises and forfeitures for
previous stock options granted by the Company.

The following table summarizes transactions under our current and predecessor stock option plans
for fiscal year 2006:

(1) 
       
     The aggregate intrinsic value represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value, based on
Hillenbrand s closing stock price of $56.98 as of September 30, 2006, which would have been
received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options as of that date.
This amount changes continuously based on the fair value of Hillenbrand s stock. 

As of September 30, 2006, there was $3.9 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related
to stock options granted under the Plan. This unrecognized compensation expense does not reflect a
reduction for our estimate of potential forfeitures, and is expected to be recognized over a
weighted average period of 2.0 years. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during 2006,
2005 and 2004 was $0.9 million, $3.3 million and $9.4 million, respectively.

On September 1, 2005, the Company accelerated the vesting of certain unvested and underwater
options previously awarded to employees, officers, and other eligible participants under the
Company s stock option plans. As such, the Company fully vested options to purchase 793,117 shares
of the Company s common stock with exercise prices greater than or equal to $50.48 per share.

Restricted Stock Units 

The value of RSUs is the fair value at the date of grant, with nonvested grants ranging between
$48.96 and $69.25 per share. The grants are contingent upon continued employment and vest over
periods ranging from one to five years. Dividends, payable in
stock, accrue on the grants and are subject to the same specified terms as the original grants. As
of September 30, 2006, a total of 9,149 stock units have accumulated on nonvested RSUs due to
dividend reinvestment.

108 

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes transactions for our nonvested RSUs, excluding dividend reinvestment
units, for fiscal year 2006:

As of September 30, 2006, there was $10.4 million of total unrecognized compensation expense
related to nonvested RSUs granted under the Plan. This unrecognized compensation expense does not
reflect a reduction for our estimate of potential forfeitures, and is expected to be recognized
over a weighted average period of 3.4 years. The total vest date fair value of shares vested
during 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $4.2 million, $2.8 million and $5.4 million, respectively.

Vested Deferred Stock 

Under the terms of the Stock Incentive Plan and the predecessor 1996 Stock Option Plan, each
non-employee director was automatically granted an option to purchase 4,000 shares of common stock
each year on the first day following our annual meeting, vesting on the first anniversary of the
date of grant and exercisable over a ten year term. Beginning in fiscal 2004, instead of options,
each non-employee member of the Board of Directors was granted deferred stock awards, which are
payable in shares of common stock on the later to occur of the first anniversary of the date of
grant or the required waiting period of six months after the date that a director ceases to be a
member of our Board of Directors. In 2006 and 2005, the annual grant consisted of 1,800 RSUs for
each non-employee director. The annual grant for the Chairman of the Board is 3,500 RSUs. A total
of 52,730 deferred shares are payable in common stock as of September 30, 2006 under this program.

Members of the Board of Directors may elect to defer fees earned and invest them in common stock
equivalents of the Company under the Hillenbrand Industries Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan.
A total of 2,414 deferred shares are payable in common stock as of September 30, 2006 under this
program.

We have historically had various other stock-based compensation programs, which like our current
RSU program, allowed deferrals after vesting to be set-up as deferred stock. As of September 30,
2006, there are 72,368 shares which are deferred, but fully vested and payable in common stock
under the RSU and other stock-based compensation programs.

12. Financial Instruments 

The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of
financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value.

The carrying amounts of current assets and liabilities approximate fair value because of the short
maturity of those instruments.

The carrying amounts of the private equity limited partnerships retained in the sale of Forethought
and the other minority investments included as a component of Investments within our Consolidated
Balance Sheets were $37.1 million and $47.6 million at September 30, 2006
and 2005. The fair value of equity method investments is not readily available and disclosure is
not required.

109 

Table of Contents   

The seller financing provided upon the divestiture of Forethought, including the seller note, debt
service account and preferred stock, are classified as held-to-maturity securities and recorded at
amortized cost. The carrying amounts of these securities are $114.4 million, $12.6 million and
$27.2 million, respectively, for a cumulative total of $154.2 million. Using a discount rate that
approximates the current rate of comparable securities and a methodology consistent with that used
to calculate the original discount recognized with respect to the original financing, the fair
value of the securities is estimated to approximate $142.6 million as of September 30, 2006.

The fair value of our debt is estimated based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar
issues or on the current rates offered to us for debt of the same remaining maturities. The
carrying value and estimated fair values of our long-term debt instruments were $347.0 million and
$352.4 million at September 30, 2006 and $350.7 million and $355.3 million at September 30, 2005,
respectively.

We estimate the fair value of derivative financial instruments based on the amount that we would
receive or pay to terminate the agreements at the reporting date. We had cash flow currency
derivative instruments outstanding in the contract amount of $14.5 million at September 30, 2006
and those derivative instruments had a fair value of
$0.3 million. We had no outstanding cash flow currency
derivative contracts at September 30, 2005. Gains and losses on these derivative contracts offset
losses and gains on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. As derivative
contracts are initiated, we designate the instruments individually as either a fair value hedge or
a cash flow hedge. Management reviews the correlation and effectiveness of our derivatives on a
quarterly basis.

During 2004, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to effectively convert a portion of our
fixed interest rate long-term debt to variable rates. The notional amount of the interest rate
swaps was $200 million. There is no hedge ineffectiveness as each swap meets the short-cut method
requirements under SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities . As a result,
changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements during their term offset changes in
the fair value of the underlying debt, with no net gain or loss recognized in earnings. As of
September 30, 2006, the interest rate swap agreements reflected a cumulative loss of $4.3 million,
compared to a cumulative loss of $1.3 million at September 30, 2005.

13. Supplementary Information 

The following amounts were charged to income from continuing operations for fiscal years 2006, 2005
and 2004:

The table below indicates the minimum annual rental commitments (excluding renewable periods)
aggregating $69.8 million, for manufacturing facilities, warehouse distribution centers, service
centers and sales offices, under noncancelable operating leases.

110 

Table of Contents   

We are in year four of a seven-year agreement with IBM to manage our global information structure
environment, which was announced near the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2003. The original
agreement had a cumulative estimated cost of $187 million. As of September 30, 2006, the remaining
commitment of $100.1 million will continue to be incurred in nearly equal amounts over the
remaining term of the agreement. To date, we have on occasion, solicited IBM to perform services
that are outside the scope of the original base agreement. These services can result in a one-time
fee or can result in additional services received and costs incurred over the remaining term of the
agreement. Over the agreement we have also terminated and resourced areas covered under the
agreement which result in a reduction to our commitments. The effect of these increases and
decreases to the original agreement nearly offset to the cost of our original seven year agreement.

The table below provides supplemental information to the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows for
fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004:

14. Segment Reporting 

As discussed in Note 1, we are organized into two operating companies, Hill-Rom and Batesville
Casket. SFAS No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information 
requires reporting of segment information that is consistent with the way in which management
operates and views the Company. Accordingly, Hill-Rom s segment activities are reported herein in
a manner consistent with the way management monitors its performance.

Anticipated Segment Reporting (beginning in fiscal 2007)  

In October 2006, we unveiled new operational strategies and associated initiatives for our two
operating companies. Accordingly, Hill-Rom s organization structure is being modified to better
align with those strategies and initiatives. The new structure will categorize Hill-Rom activities
into three commercial divisions, reflecting our broad customer segments. Sourcing, manufacturing,
and product development will continue to be combined under one function to support these commercial
divisions. When combined with the Batesville Casket segment, our 2007 reporting segments are
expected to be as follows:

North America Acute Care 

North America Post-Acute Care 

International and Surgical 

Batesville Casket 

While we have been working diligently with respect to the adoption and implementation of this new
organizational structure, we have not yet begun to report financial information consistent with the
new structure. As a result, we will continue to report segment information consistent with the
prior year reporting structure. We anticipate beginning to report under the new structure in early
2007, and at that time we intend to conform the reporting for prior periods to the new structure.

111 

Table of Contents   

Existing Segment Reporting  

In July 2005, we announced several changes intended to simplify both the Corporate and Hill-Rom
organizational structures and to support Hill-Rom s strategy to focus on its core hospital bed
frames, therapy support surfaces and services businesses. Hill-Rom established two commercial
divisions, one focusing on North America and one focusing internationally, each consisting of
hospital bed frames, therapy support surfaces and services businesses with supporting sales,
marketing and field service organizations. Hill-Rom also combined sourcing, manufacturing, and
product development under one new function to support these two commercial divisions. Home care
products and services and surgical accessories were combined under this structure into a separate,
fully integrated division. At the same time, all Hillenbrand corporate functions, including human
resources, finance, strategy, legal and information technology, were consolidated with those of
Hill-Rom. Therefore, during fiscal 2006, our operating structure contains the following reporting
segments:

Hill-Rom North America 

Hill-Rom International 

Hill-Rom Home Care and Surgical Accessories 

Batesville Casket 

In addition to those reporting segments, we break out certain functional costs and eliminations to
aid in the reconciliation of segment information to consolidated Hillenbrand financial information.
We also break out certain continuing public entity corporate-related costs separately to improve
readability and understanding.

112 

Table of Contents   

Financial information regarding our reportable segments during 2006 and 2005 is presented below:

(a)  
       
      Reflects results of Forethought, including Forethought Federal Savings Bank, classified as
discontinued operations.  

(b)  
       
      Reflects antitrust litigation charge of $226.1 (after tax) related to Hill-Rom.  

(c)  
       
      Reflects realignment charges for all businesses totaling $36.3 million, including the change
in architecture at Hill-Rom, the consolidation of Corporate and Hill-Rom functions, the
closure of a wood casket manufacturing facility and CEO transition costs.  

While we revised the results of fiscal 2005 to conform with our fiscal 2006 reporting
segments, we were unable to present fiscal 2004 on this basis as it was impracticable to do so. As
such, the fiscal 2004 segment data is presented below in a manner consistent with our prior segment
reporting basis, wherein Hill-Rom was split into Americas/Asia Pacific and EMEA (Europe, Middle
East and Africa) reporting segments.

113 

Table of Contents   

(d)  
       
      Corporate and Other includes $6.4 million on the extinguishment of debt ($4.0 million after
tax)  

(e)  
       
      Reflects a $5.5 million charge related to a realignment of financial and personnel resources
at Hill-Rom.  

(f)  
       
      Reflects results of Forethought, including Forethought Federal Savings Bank, and Hill-Rom s
piped-medical gas and infant care businesses classified as discontinued operations. Results
for 2004 included the loss on disposal of Forethought of $88.6 million (after tax) and a net
gain on the disposition of the piped-medical gas and infant care businesses of a combined
$18.3 million (after tax).  

Hill-Rom performance under each segment reporting presentation is measured on a divisional
income basis before special items. While there are no intersegment sales on the reporting basis
for fiscal 2006 and 2005, intersegment sales between Americas/Asia Pacific and EMEA in fiscal 2004
are generally accounted for at current market value or cost plus markup. Divisional income for all
fiscal years represents the division s gross profit less their direct operating costs. Functional
costs for fiscal 2006 and 2005 include common costs, such as administration, finance and
non-divisional legal and human resource costs and other charges not directly attributable to the
segments; along with operations and development costs such as fixed manufacturing overhead,
research and development, and distribution. Functional costs and eliminations for fiscal 2004 also
include the common costs outlined above, along with intercompany eliminations, but exclude the
operations and development costs which were allocated among the divisions in that year. Functional
costs and eliminations, while not considered a segment, are presented separately to aid in the
reconciliation of segment information to consolidated Hill-Rom financial information.

The reporting segment of Batesville Casket is measured on the basis of income from continuing
operations before income taxes and special charges. Intersegment sales do not occur between
Hill-Rom and Batesville Casket.

Geographic Information 

Most of our operations outside the United States are in Europe and consist of the manufacturing,
selling and renting of health care products.

114 

Table of Contents   

Geographic data for net revenues from continuing operations and long-lived assets (which consist
mainly of property, equipment leased to others and intangibles) for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and
2004 were as follows:

(a)  
       
      Net revenues are attributed to geographic areas based on the location of the operation
making the sale.  

(b)  
       
      Includes property, equipment leased to others and intangibles, including goodwill.  

15. Financial Services 

Forethought and its subsidiaries served funeral and cemetery planning professionals with life
insurance policies, trust products and marketing support for Forethought      funeral
planning.

Forethought held investments comprised predominantly of U.S. Treasuries and agencies, high-grade
corporate and foreign bonds, with smaller investments in equities, commercial mortgage loans,
high-yield corporate bonds and limited partnerships. Those investments were carried on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Forethought s objective was to purchase investment
securities with maturities that matched the expected cash outflows of policy benefit payments. The
investment portfolio was constantly monitored to ensure assets matched the expected payment of the
liabilities. Securities were also sold in other circumstances, including concern about the credit
quality of the issuer. Cash (unrestricted as to use) was held for future investment.

The cost used to compute realized gains and losses was determined by specific identification.
Proceeds and realized gains and losses from the sale of investment securities available-for-sale
and from write-downs associated with other-than-temporary declines in value (impairments) were as
follows for fiscal year 2004:

Forethought s life insurance companies were restricted in the amount of dividends that they could
distribute to their shareholders without approval of the department of insurance in their
respective states of domicile. In December 2003, Forethought Life Insurance Company paid a
dividend of $28.6 million to Hillenbrand Industries, Inc.

115 

Table of Contents   

16. Unaudited Quarterly Financial Information 

(a)  
       
      Reflects numerous charges, including a fourth quarter litigation charge of $226.1 million
(after tax), realignment charges for all businesses totaling $27.1 million (after tax),
primarily in the third and fourth quarters, and a rental asset inventory loss at Hill-Rom
associated with a fourth quarter physical inventory of $3.0 million (after tax).  

17. Legal Proceedings 

On June 30, 2003, Spartanburg Regional Healthcare System (the  Plaintiff ) filed a purported
antitrust class action lawsuit against Hillenbrand, Hill-Rom, Inc. and Hill-Rom Company, Inc. in
the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina. Plaintiff s Second Amended
Complaint, filed on May 9, 2005, alleged violations of the federal antitrust laws, including
attempted monopolization, monopoly maintenance and tying claims. Plaintiff sought to certify a
class of all purchasers of Hill-Rom    standard and/or specialty hospital beds, and/or
architectural and in-room products from 1990 to the present where there had been contracts between
Hill-Rom and such purchasers, either on behalf of themselves or through purchasing organizations,
conditioning discounts on Hill-Rom    hospital beds and other architectural and in-room
products on commitments to rent or purchase a very high percentage (e.g. ninety percent) of
specialty beds from Hill-Rom. Plaintiff subsequently narrowed the definition of its proposed class
to acute and subacute facilities. Plaintiff claimed that it and the alleged class sustained injury
caused by Hill-Rom s discounting practices, which allegedly harmed competition and resulted in
higher prices for standard and/or specialty hospital beds and/or architectural and in-room
products.

Plaintiff sought actual monetary damages on behalf of the purported class in excess of $100
million, trebling of any such damages that might have been awarded, recovery of attorneys  fees and
costs, and injunctive relief. Hillenbrand anticipated that, if a settlement had not been reached,
the Plaintiff would have sought damages substantially in excess of $100 million, before trebling.
If a class had been certified and Plaintiffs had proceeded to trial and had prevailed, potential
trebled damages awarded the Plaintiffs could have been substantially
in excess of $100 million and could have had a significant material adverse effect on our results
of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.

As of November 7, 2005, all proceedings in the lawsuit were stayed except those relating to the
parties  efforts to complete a settlement. On February 3, 2006 the Court preliminarily approved

116 

Table of Contents   

a definitive agreement to settle the case for $337.5 million in cash entered into as of February 2,
2006 among Hillenbrand, its Hill-Rom subsidiaries, Spartanburg Regional Healthcare System and its
attorneys. The Court entered an Order and Final Judgment approving the settlement following a
fairness hearing on June 14, 2006. As finally approved by the Court, the settlement resolves all
of the claims of class members that did not opt out of the settlement, including the claims of all
U.S. and Canadian purchasers or renters of Hill-Rom    products from 1990 through February 2, 2006
related to or arising out of the subject matter of the lawsuit, and the claims that may have
resulted from the current or future effects of conduct or events occurring through February 2,
2006. The original settlement amount of $337.5 million was reduced by almost $21.2 million, to
$316.3 million, reflecting the portion attributable to customers who opted out of the settlement.
Opt-outs from the settlement account for roughly six percent of the total U.S. and Canadian revenue
during the class period, and over 99 percent of that figure is attributable to the U.S.
government s decision to opt out of the settlement. We believe we have meritorious defenses
against any claims the U.S. government may choose to make, due to, among other reasons, pricing
practices of government purchases that are different than the pricing practices primarily at issue
in the lawsuit.

The settlement agreement includes Hill-Rom s commitment to continue certain company-initiated
discounting practices for a period of three years. Essentially, Hill-Rom implemented a policy in
October 2002, which it has agreed to follow until at least February 2009. Under that policy, which
did not represent a material change in our discounting practices, Hill-Rom refrains from entering
into new contracts that condition incremental discounts on Hill-Rom    hospital beds or architectural
products on commitments to rent therapy products from Hill-Rom. While such products may be sold
together, rental therapy products are separately priced and discounted. Under the settlement
Hill-Rom may continue to offer all other discounts such as volume discounts, early payment
discounts, capitation, etc. Further, the discounting practices that gave rise to the Spartanburg
litigation have already been discontinued (or will be discontinued on the expiration of certain
existing contracts) and have been replaced by alternative practices for each of the last four
fiscal years. Therefore, any impact of the discontinuance of such practices on our business is
already fully reflected in our reported results.

In connection with our assessment that it was probable that a settlement would be reached and
finally approved by the Court during fiscal 2006, we recorded a litigation charge and established a
litigation accrual in the amount of $358.6 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, which
included certain legal and other costs associated with the proposed settlement. With the Court s
entering of the Order and Final Judgment in the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we reversed $2.3
million of the $21.1 million of estimated legal and other costs originally provided as part of the
litigation accrual as such amounts are not probable of payment. We paid the remaining $266.3
million of the settlement amount into escrow in August 2006 and have retained a $21.2 million
litigation accrual associated with the opt-outs.

On May 2, 2005, a non-profit entity called Funeral Consumers Alliance, Inc. ( FCA ) and several
individual consumers filed a purported class action antitrust lawsuit ( FCA Action ) against three
national funeral home businesses, Service Corporation International ( SCI ), Alderwoods Group, Inc.
( Alderwoods ), and Stewart Enterprises, Inc. ( Stewart ) together with Hillenbrand and its
Batesville Casket Company, Inc. subsidiary ( Batesville ), in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of California. This lawsuit alleged a conspiracy to suppress competition in
an alleged market for the sale of caskets through a group boycott of so-called  independent casket
discounters,  that is, third-party casket sellers unaffiliated
with licensed funeral homes; a campaign of disparagement against these independent casket
discounters; and concerted efforts to restrict casket price competition and to coordinate and fix
casket pricing, all in violation of federal antitrust law and California s Unfair Competition Law.
The lawsuit claimed, among other things, that Batesville s maintenance and enforcement of, and
alleged modifications to, its long-standing policy of selling caskets only to licensed funeral
homes were the product of a conspiracy among Batesville, the other defendants and others to exclude
 independent casket discounters  and that this alleged conspiracy, combined with

117 

Table of Contents   

other alleged
matters, suppressed competition in the alleged market for caskets and led consumers to pay higher
than competitive prices for caskets. The FCA Action alleged that two of Batesville s competitors,
York Group, Inc. and Aurora Casket Company, are co-conspirators but did not name them as
defendants. The FCA Action also alleged that SCI, Alderwoods, Stewart and other unnamed
co-conspirators conspired to monopolize the alleged market for the sale of caskets in the United
States.

After the FCA Action was filed, several more purported class action lawsuits on behalf of consumers
were filed based on essentially the same factual allegations and alleging violations of federal
antitrust law and/or related state law claims. It is not unusual to have multiple copycat class
action suits filed after an initial filing, and it is possible that additional suits based on the
same or similar allegations will be brought against Hillenbrand and Batesville.

Batesville, Hillenbrand and the other defendants filed motions to dismiss the FCA Action and a
motion to transfer to a more convenient forum. In response, the court in California permitted the
plaintiffs to replead the complaint and later granted defendants  motion to transfer the action to
the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas (Houston, Texas) ( Court ).

On October 12, 2005, the FCA plaintiffs filed an amended complaint consolidating all but one of the
other purported consumer class actions in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Texas. The amended FCA complaint contains substantially the same basic allegations as
the original FCA complaint. The only other then remaining purported consumer class action, Fancher
v. SCI et al., was subsequently dismissed voluntarily by the plaintiff after the defendants filed a
motion to dismiss. On October 26, 2006, however, a new purported class action was filed by the
estates of Dale Van Coley and Joye Katherine Coley, Candace D. Robinson, Personal Representative,
consumer plaintiffs, against Batesville and Hillenbrand in the Western District of Oklahoma
alleging violation of the antitrust laws in fourteen states based on allegations that Batesville
engaged in conduct designed to foreclose competition and gain a monopoly position in the market.
This lawsuit is largely based on similar factual allegations to the FCA Action. The company
intends to move to transfer this case to the Southern District of Texas in order to coordinate this
action with the FCA Action.

The FCA plaintiffs are seeking certification of a class that includes all United States consumers
who purchased Batesville caskets from any of the funeral home co-defendants at any time during the
fullest period permitted by the applicable statute of limitations. The Fancher plaintiffs sought
certification of a broader class: all United States consumers and entities who purchased
Batesville caskets from any source at any time during the fullest period permitted by the
applicable statute of limitations. Plaintiffs generally seek actual unspecified monetary damages,
trebling of any such damages that may be awarded, recovery of attorneys  fees and costs and
injunctive relief. On October 18, 2006, the district court denied Batesville s, Hillenbrand s, and
other defendants  November 2005 motions to dismiss the amended FCA complaint.

A scheduling hearing occurred on December 6, 2005. As a result, the Class Certification hearing is
scheduled to occur from December 4-7, 2006. The trial in the FCA matter is scheduled to begin on
or about February 4, 2008.

In addition to the consumer lawsuits discussed above, on July 8, 2005 Pioneer Valley Casket Co.
( Pioneer Valley ), an alleged casket store and Internet retailer, also filed a purported class
action lawsuit against Batesville, Hillenbrand, SCI, Alderwoods, and Stewart in the Northern
District of California on behalf of the class of  independent casket distributors,  alleging
violations of state and federal antitrust law and state unfair and deceptive practices laws based
on essentially the same factual allegations as in the consumer cases. Pioneer Valley claimed that
it and other independent casket distributors were injured by the
defendants  alleged conspiracy to
boycott and suppress competition in the alleged market for caskets, and by an

118 

Table of Contents   

alleged conspiracy
among SCI, Alderwoods, Stewart and other unnamed co-conspirators to monopolize the alleged market
for caskets.

Plaintiff Pioneer Valley seeks certification of a class of all independent casket distributors who
are now in business or have been in business since July 8, 2001. Pioneer Valley generally seeks
actual unspecified monetary damages on behalf of the purported class, trebling of any such damages
that may be awarded, recovery of attorneys  fees and costs and injunctive relief.

The Pioneer Valley complaint was also transferred to the Southern District of Texas but was not
consolidated with the FCA Action, although the scheduling orders for both cases are identical. On
October 21, 2005, Pioneer Valley filed an amended complaint adding three new plaintiffs, each of
whom purports to be a current or former  independent casket distributor.  Like Pioneer Valley s
original complaint, the amended complaint alleges violations of federal antitrust laws, but it has
dropped the causes of actions for alleged price fixing, conspiracy to monopolize, and violations of
state antitrust law and state unfair and deceptive practices laws. On October 25, 2006, the
district court denied Hillenbrand s and Batesville s December 2005 motions to dismiss the amended
Pioneer Valley complaint. The class certification hearing in the Pioneer Valley case is currently
scheduled to begin on or about December 7-8, 2006.

If a class is certified in any of the antitrust cases filed against Hillenbrand and Batesville and
if plaintiffs in any such case prevail at trial, potential trebled damages awarded to the
plaintiffs could have a significant material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
condition, and/or liquidity. Accordingly, we are aggressively defending against the allegations
made in all of these cases and intend to assert what we believe to be meritorious defenses to class
certification and to plaintiffs  allegations and damage theories.

After the FCA Action was filed, in the summer and fall of 2005, Batesville was served with Civil
Investigative Demands ( CIDs ) by the Attorney General of Maryland and certain other state
attorneys general who have begun an investigation of possible anticompetitive practices in the
funeral service industry relating to a range of funeral services and products, including caskets.
Batesville has been informed that approximately 26 state attorneys general offices are
participating in the joint investigation, although more could join. Batesville is cooperating with
the attorneys general. To date, no claims have been filed against Batesville.

In August 2005, Hill-Rom received a civil subpoena from the Office of the Connecticut Attorney
General seeking documents and information related to the Attorney General s investigation of the
Healthcare Research   Development Institute, LLC ( HRDI ), a health care trade organization, of
which Hill-Rom is a corporate member. Hill-Rom has responded to that subpoena. On April 3, 2006,
Hill-Rom received a set of supplemental interrogatories from the Attorney General s Office.
Hill-Rom has responded to those interrogatories. We are cooperating with the Attorney General s
investigation. To date, no claims have been filed against Hill-Rom.

We are subject to various other claims and contingencies arising out of the normal course of
business, including those relating to commercial transactions, product liability, employee related
matters, antitrust, safety, health, taxes, environmental and other matters. Litigation is subject
to many uncertainties and the outcome of individual litigated matters is not predictable with
assurance. It is possible that some litigation matters for which reserves have
not been established could be decided unfavorably to us, and that any such unfavorable decisions
could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows.

18. Subsequent Event 

On October 6, 2006, Hill-Rom acquired Medicraft, Australia PTY, LTD, a leader in acute and
post-acute hospital beds and furniture in Australia, for approximately $15 million plus acquisition
costs incurred in relation to this transaction. The acquisition expands Hill-Rom s sales channel
for therapy and higher acuity products, and we believe that several Medicraft products can be
adapted for global and price-sensitive bed market segments throughout the

119 

Table of Contents   

world. Activities of the
acquired entity will be included in our Consolidated Financial Statements on a prospective basis
commencing with the date of acquisition.

Also in October 2006, Hill-Rom entered into an agreement to acquire a manufacturing facility in
Mexico, to which we plan to move a portion of Hill-Rom s manufacturing capacity for products used
in lower acuity care settings and selected post-acute care settings. The acquisition of that
facility is contingent upon the successful completion of certain due diligence, which is expected
to be completed during our first quarter of fiscal 2007, and if completed will entail a purchase
price of approximately $16 million.

Item 9.  
       
      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

There were no changes in or disagreements with the independent registered public accounting firm.

Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Our management, with the participation of our President and Chief Executive Officer and the Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (the  Certifying Officers ), has evaluated the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange
Act ) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon that evaluation, the
Certifying Officers concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the
end of the period covered by this report for the information required to be disclosed in the
reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act to be recorded, processed, summarized and reported
within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms and such information is accumulated
and communicated to management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

As outlined in our prior year Form 10-K and previously discussed within Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Form 10-K, the implementation of
our rental business system in the third quarter of fiscal 2005 adversely impacted Hill-Rom s
domestic rental revenues in both fiscal 2005 and 2006. Specifically, significant complexities and
inherent business process changes associated with this implementation resulted in numerous issues
related to the start-up and operation of this system, including incorrect billings to customers and
resulting challenges in the collection of accounts receivable, inefficiencies in fulfillment of
customer orders, strained customer relationships and, ultimately, the loss of some business. As a
result of these issues,
management concluded as of September 30, 2005 that it had two significant deficiencies in internal
controls related to the rental business system.

During fiscal 2006, we took action to implement various new controls and processes to address the
system and related business process issues. We have conducted extensive testing of these enhanced
controls and processes and have concluded that the significant deficiencies related to the rental
business system have now been successfully remediated.

120 

Table of Contents   

Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 

2007 Executive Officer Annual Base Salaries 

On
November 30, 2006, the Compensation and Management Development
Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company
( Committee ) approved the annual base salaries effective January 1, 2007 for
our executive officers, including the Named Executive Officers other
than our Chief Executive Officer. The following table shows the 2007
annual base salaries for those Named Executive Officers:

2007 Annual 

Name and Position  
       
      Base Salary  

Gregory N. Miller, Senior Vice President and Chief

$ 
     378,000 

Financial Officer

Kenneth A. Camp, Senior Vice President of Hillenbrand

$ 
     430,400 

Industries and President and Chief Executive Officer of

Batesville Casket Company, Inc.

Patrick D. de Maynadier, Vice President, General Counsel

$ 
     352,300 

and Secretary

Kimberly K. Dennis, Vice President, Information

$ 
     288,000 

Technology of Hillenbrand Industries and Senior Vice

President, Post-Acute Care (North America) and

Information Technology of Hill-Rom Company, Inc.

Mr. Soderberg s
2007 annual base salary is still under review by the Committee.
For each other Named Executive Officer, the base salaries shown above reflect an increase from the
base salaries currently in effect. These increases include merit increases based on individual
performance, as well as a previously approved one time salary adjustment related to the elimination
of restricted stock unit awards that previously had been made in lieu of certain perquisite
compensation elements that were discontinued in 2004.

In connection with the determination of the 2007 annual base salaries, the Committee s independent
compensation consultant, Ernst   Young, provided peer group proxy and survey data regarding the
amount of base salary at the median and seventy fifth percentile. These data were used as one
reference point by the Committee in its decisions to increase the
base salaries of each of the Named Executive Officers identified above.

121 

Table of Contents   

PART III 

Item 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

Information relating to executive officers is included in this report in Item 1 under the
caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant.  Information relating to the directors will
appear in the section entitled  Election of Directors  in our Proxy Statement to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to our 2007 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders (the  2007 Proxy Statement ), which section is incorporated herein by
reference. The required information on compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by reference to the 2007 Proxy Statement, where such
information is included under the caption  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance . Information regarding our Code of Ethical Business Conduct is incorporated by
reference to the 2007 Proxy Statement, where such information is included under the heading
 About the Board of Directors. 

Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the 2007 Proxy
Statement, where such information is included under the headings  About the Board of
Directors  and  Executive Compensation. 

Item 12.  
       
      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the 2007
Proxy Statement, where such information is included under the headings  Election of
Directors  and  Equity Compensation Plan Information. 

Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the 2007 Proxy
Statement, where such information is included under the headings  About the Board of Directors 
and  Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation. 

Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the 2007 Proxy
Statement, where such information is included under the heading  Ratification of Appointment of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

122 

Table of Contents   

PART IV 

Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a) 
       
     The following documents have been filed as a part of this report or, where noted,
incorporated by reference: 

(1) 
       
     Financial Statements 

The financial statements of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries listed on
the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 71. 

(2) 
       
     Financial Statement Schedules 

The financial statement schedule filed in response to Item 8 and Item 15(d) of Form
10-K is listed on the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 71. 

(3) 
       
     Exhibits 

The following exhibits have been filed as part of this report in response to Item
15(c) of Form 10-K: 

3.1 
       
     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3 filed with Form 10-K for the
year ended November 28, 1992) 

3.2 
       
     Amended and Restated Code of Bylaws of the Registrant
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 filed with Form 10-K for the
year ended September 30, 2003) 

4.1 
       
     Indenture dated as of December 1, 1991, between Hillenbrand
Industries, Inc. and LaSalle Bank National Association (as successor to Harris
Trust and Savings Bank) as Trustee (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
(4) (a) to Registration Statement on Form S-3, Registration No. 33-44086) 

4.2 
       
     Supplemental Indenture No. 1 dated as of June 7, 2004, between
Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and LaSalle Bank National Association, as Trustee
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K dated June 2,
2004) 

The following management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements are
required to be filed as exhibits to this form pursuant to Item 15(c) of this report:

123 

Table of Contents   

10.4 
       
     Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. 1996 Stock Option Plan
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 filed with Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended February 27, 1999) 

10.5 
       
     Form of Stock Award granted to certain executive officers
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 filed with Form 10-K for the
year ended November 27, 1999) 

10.6 
       
     Form of Stock Award granted to certain executive officers under
the Stock Incentive Plan (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4
filed with Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003) 

10.7 
       
     Agreement between W August Hillenbrand and Hillenbrand
Industries, Inc. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 filed with
Form 10-K for the year ended December 2, 2000) 

10.8 
       
     Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. form of Director Indemnity
Agreement (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 filed with Form
10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003) 

10.9 
       
     Change in Control Agreement between Hillenbrand Industries,
Inc. and Rolf A. Classon (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8
filed with Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2005) 

10.10 
       
     Form of Change in Control Agreement between Hillenbrand
Industries, Inc. and certain executive officers, including Gregory N. Miller,
Patrick D. de Maynadier and Kenneth A. Camp (Incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 10.9 filed with Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2005) 

10.11 
       
     Form of Indemnity Agreement between Hillenbrand Industries,
Inc. and certain executive officers (Incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.9 filed with Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003) 

10.12 
       
     Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. Board of Directors  Deferred
Compensation Plan (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10 filed with
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 2, 2001) 

10.13 
       
     Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. Director Phantom Stock Plan and
form of award (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11 filed with
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 2, 2001) 

10.14 
       
     Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan
(Incorporated herein by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement dated March
1, 2002 and filed with the Commission relative to the Company s 2002 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders) 

10.15 
       
     First Amendment to Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. Stock
Incentive Plan (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 filed with
Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003) 

10.16 
       
     Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement
Plan (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.14 filed with Form 10-K
for the year ended September 30, 2003) 

124 

Table of Contents   

125 

Table of Contents   

Other Exhibits

10.37 
       
     Multi-year Revolving Credit Agreement dated July 28, 2004
among Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative
Agent, Swing Line Lender, Alternative Rate Lender and L/C Issuer, and Citicorp
North America, Inc., as Syndication Agent, and other lenders (Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2004) 

10.38 
       
     Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of February 12, 2004 between
Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and FFS Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2004) 

10.39 
       
     Form of Certificate of Designation relating to Series A
Redeemable Preferred Stock of FFS Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 filed with Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2004) 

10.40 
       
     Form of Warrant to Purchase Common Stock of FFS Holdings, Inc.
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 filed with Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2004) 

126 

Table of Contents   

10.41 
       
     Form of Promissory Note from FFS Holdings, Inc. to Hillenbrand
Industries Inc. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 filed with
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004) 

10.42 
       
     Form of Guaranty by Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. in favor of
FFS Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 filed with
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004) 

10.43 
       
     Form of Stock Pledge Agreement between FFS Holdings, Inc. and
Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6
filed with Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004) 

10.44 
       
     Settlement Agreement relating to Spartanburg antitrust
litigation  Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with Form
8-K dated February 3, 2006) 

14 
       
     Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. Code of Ethics (Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 14 filed with Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2005) 

21 
       
     Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

23 
       
     Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

31.1 
       
     Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section
302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

31.2 
       
     Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section
302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

32.1 
       
     Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 

32.2 
       
     Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 

99.1 
       
     Charter of Audit Committee of Board of Directors 

99.2 
       
     Charter of Finance Committee of Board of Directors 

99.3 
       
     Charter of Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee of Board
of Directors 

99.4 
       
     Charter of Compensation and Management Development Committee of
Board of Directors 

99.5 
       
     Position Specification for Chairman of Board of Directors
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.5 filed with Form 10-K for the
year ended September 30, 2004) 

99.6 
       
     Position Specification for Vice Chairman of Board of Directors
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.7 filed with Form 10-K for the
year ended September 30, 2003) 

127 

Table of Contents   

99.7 
       
     Position Specification for Member of Board of Directors 

99.8 
       
     Position Specification for President and Chief Executive
Officer (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.11 to the Form 10-K for
the Transition Period ended September 30, 2002) 

128 

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE II 

HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 

For The Fiscal Years Ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 

(Dollars in millions) 

(a)  
       
      Reduction of gross revenues for uncollectible health care rental reimbursements, cash
discounts and other adjustments in determining net revenue. Also includes the effect of
acquisition of businesses, if any.  

(b)  
       
      Generally reflects the write-off of specific receivables against recorded reserves.   

(c)  
       
      Generally reflects the write-off of specific inventory against recorded reserves.  

(d)  
       
      Reflects reclasses within the deferred tax accounts and adjustments to the opening
balance sheet goodwill of acquisitions to properly reflect the valuation allowance on
acquired state net operating losses.  

(e)  
       
      Reflects reclasses within the deferred tax accounts and adjustments to the opening
balance sheet goodwill of acquisitions to properly reflect the valuation allowance on
acquired state net operating losses. Reflects write-offs of deferred tax assets against
the valuation allowance.  

129 

Table of Contents   

130 

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC.  

By:

/s/

Peter H. Soderberg 

Peter H. Soderberg 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Dated: December 5, 2006

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date
indicated.

/s/

Rolf A. Classon

/s/

John A. Hillenbrand II 

Rolf A. Classon

John A. Hillenbrand II 

Chairman of the Board

Director 

/s/

Peter H. Soderberg

/s/

Ray J. Hillenbrand 

Peter H. Soderberg

Ray J. Hillenbrand 

President and Chief Executive Officer

Director 

/s/

Joanne C. Smith, M.D.

/s/

W August Hillenbrand 

Joanne C. Smith, M.D.

W August Hillenbrand 

Director

Director 

Vice Chairperson of the Board 

/s/

Gregory N. Miller

/s/

Mark D. Ketchum 

Gregory N. Miller

Mark D. Ketchum 

Senior Vice President and

Director 

Chief Financial Officer 

/s/

Richard G. Keller

/s/

Eduardo R. Menasc  

Richard G. Keller

Eduardo R. Menasc  

Vice President   Controller and

Director 

Chief Accounting Officer 

/s/

Charles E. Golden

/s/

Anne Griswold Peirce, R.N. Ph.D. 

Charles E. Golden

Anne Griswold Peirce, R.N. Ph.D. 

Director

Director 

Dated: December 5, 2006

131 

Table of Contents   

HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC. 

INDEX TO EXHIBITS 

3.1 
       
     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3 filed with Form 10-K for the
year ended November 28, 1992) 

3.2 
       
     Amended and Restated Code of Bylaws of the Registrant
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 filed with Form 10-K for the
year ended September 30, 2003) 

4.1 
       
     Indenture dated as of December 1, 1991, between Hillenbrand
Industries, Inc. and LaSalle Bank National Association (as successor to Harris
Trust and Savings Bank) as Trustee (Incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit (4) (a) to Registration Statement on Form S-3, Registration No.
33-44086) 

4.2 
       
     Supplemental Indenture No. 1 dated as of June 7, 2004,
between Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and LaSalle Bank National Association, as
Trustee (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K dated
June 2, 2004) 

The following management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements are
required to be filed as exhibits to this form pursuant to Item 15(c) of this
report:

132 

Table of Contents   

10.8 
       
     Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. form of Director Indemnity
Agreement (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 filed with Form
10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003) 

10.9 
       
     Change in Control Agreement between Hillenbrand Industries,
Inc. and Rolf A. Classon (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8
filed with Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2005) 

10.10 
       
     Form of Change in Control Agreement between Hillenbrand
Industries, Inc. and certain executive officers, including Gregory N. Miller,
Patrick D. de Maynadier and Kenneth A. Camp (Incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 10.9 filed with Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2005) 

10.11 
       
     Form of Indemnity Agreement between Hillenbrand Industries,
Inc. and certain executive officers (Incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.9 filed with Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003) 

10.12 
       
     Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. Board of Directors  Deferred
Compensation Plan (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10 filed
with Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 2, 2001) 

10.13 
       
     Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. Director Phantom Stock Plan and
form of award (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11 filed with
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 2, 2001) 

10.14 
       
     Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan
(Incorporated herein by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement dated
March 1, 2002 and filed with the Commission relative to the Company s 2002
Annual Meeting of Shareholders) 

10.15 
       
     First Amendment to Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. Stock
Incentive Plan (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 filed with
Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003) 

10.16 
       
     Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plan (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.14 filed with
Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003) 

10.17 
       
     Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. Senior Executive Deferred
Compensation Program (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.15 filed
with Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003) 

10.18 
       
     Form of Stock Award granted to certain executive officers in
lieu of perquisites under the Stock Incentive Plan (Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.16 filed with Form 10-K for the year ended September
30, 2003) 

10.19 
       
     Form of Change in Control Agreement between Hillenbrand
Industries, Inc. and certain executive officers, including John H. Dickey
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8 filed with Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 2, 2001) 

133 

Table of Contents   

134 

Table of Contents   

Other Exhibits

10.37 
       
     Multi-year Revolving Credit Agreement dated July 28, 2004
among Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and Bank of America, N.A., as
Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender, Alternative Rate Lender and L/C
Issuer, and Citicorp North America, Inc., as Syndication Agent, and other
lenders (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 2004) 

10.38 
       
     Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of February 12, 2004
between Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and FFS Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2004) 

10.39 
       
     Form of Certificate of Designation relating to Series A
Redeemable Preferred Stock of FFS Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 filed with Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2004) 

10.40 
       
     Form of Warrant to Purchase Common Stock of FFS Holdings,
Inc. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 filed with Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended March 31, 2004) 

10.41 
       
     Form of Promissory Note from FFS Holdings, Inc. to
Hillenbrand Industries Inc. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4
filed with Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004) 

10.42 
       
     Form of Guaranty by Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. in favor of
FFS Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 filed
with Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004) 

135 

Table of Contents   

10.43 
       
     Form of Stock Pledge Agreement between FFS Holdings, Inc.
and Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10.6 filed with Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004) 

10.44 
       
     Settlement Agreement relating to Spartanburg antitrust
litigation  Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with Form
8-K dated February 3, 2006) 

14 
       
     Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. Code of Ethics (Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 14 filed with Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2005) 

21 
       
     Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

23 
       
     Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

31.1 
       
     Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section
302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

31.2 
       
     Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section
302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

32.1 
       
     Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 

32.2 
       
     Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 

99.1 
       
     Charter of Audit Committee of Board of Directors 

99.2 
       
     Charter of Finance Committee of Board of Directors 

99.3 
       
     Charter of Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee of Board
of Directors 

99.4 
       
     Charter of Compensation and Management Development Committee
of Board of Directors 

99.5 
       
     Position Specification for Chairman of Board of Directors
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.5 filed with Form 10-K for the
year ended September 30, 2004) 

99.6 
       
     Position Specification for Vice Chairman of Board of
Directors (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.7 filed with Form
10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003) 

99.7 
       
     Position Specification for Member of Board of Directors 

99.8 
       
     Position Specification for President and Chief Executive
Officer (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.11 to the Form 10-K
for the Transition Period ended September 30, 2002) 

136 

<EX-10.34>
 2
 c10438exv10w34.txt
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STANDARDS

EXHIBIT 10.34

                          HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC.
                                 (THE "COMPANY")

                         CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STANDARDS
                                       FOR
                               BOARD OF DIRECTORS

            (As approved by Board of Directors on September 14, 2006)

The following corporate governance standards established by the Board of
Directors provide a structure within which directors and management can
effectively pursue the Company's objectives for the benefit of its shareholders
and other constituencies. The Company's business is managed under the direction
of the Board, but the conduct of the Company's business has been delegated by
the Board to the Company's senior management team.

      1. The Board will consider all major decisions of the Company. However,
the Board has established the following standing Committees so that certain
important areas can be addressed in more depth than may be possible in a full
Board meeting: Audit Committee, Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee,
Compensation and Management Development Committee and Finance Committee. Each
standing Committee has a specific written charter that has been approved by the
Board.

      2. At all times, at least a majority of the directors of the Company shall
be independent, as determined pursuant to numbered paragraph 3 below.

      3. The Board, after receiving a recommendation from the
Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, must determine annually, based on a
consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances, whether each director is
independent. A director does not qualify as independent unless the Board has
affirmatively determined that the director has no material relationship with the
Company(1) (either directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an
organization that has a relationship with the Company). In assessing the
materiality of a director's relationship with the Company and each director's
independence, the Board shall consider the issue of materiality not only from
the standpoint of the director but also from that of the persons or
organizations with which the director has an affiliation and shall consider
whether the relationship represents a potential conflict of interest or
otherwise interferes with the director's exercise of his or her independent
judgment from management and the Company. Material relationships can include,
among others, commercial, industrial, banking, consulting, legal, accounting,
charitable and familial relationships. In assessing a director's independence,
the Board shall also consider the director's ownership, or affiliation with the
owner, of less than a controlling amount of voting securities of the Company.
The basis for the Board's determination that a relationship is not material
shall be disclosed in the Company's annual proxy statement.

(1) For purposes of this numbered paragraph 3, all references to the Company
    include the Company's subsidiaries.

Further, the Board cannot conclude that a director is independent if:

      -     The director is, or has been within the last three years, an
            employee of the Company, or an immediate family member(2) of the
            director is, or has been within the last three years, an executive
            officer of the Company. Employment as an interim Chairman or CEO or
            other executive officer shall not disqualify a director from being
            considered independent following that employment.

      -     The director has received, or has an immediate family member who has
            received, during any twelve-month period within the last three
            years, more than $100,000 per year in direct compensation from the
            Company, other than director and committee fees and pension or other
            forms of deferred compensation for prior service (provided such
            compensation is not contingent in any way on continued service).
            Compensation received by a director for former service as an interim
            Chairman or CEO or other executive officer need not be considered in
            determining independence under this test. Compensation received by
            an immediate family member for service as an employee of the Company
            (other than an executive officer) need not be considered in
            determining independence under this test.

      -     (A) The director or an immediate family member of the director is a
            current partner of a firm that is the Company's internal or external
            auditor; (B) the director is a current employee of such a firm; (C)
            the director has an immediate family member who is a current
            employee of such a firm and who participates in the firm's audit,
            assurance or tax compliance (but not tax planning) practice; or (D)
            the director or an immediate family member was within the last three
            years (but is no longer) a partner or employee of such a firm and
            personally worked on the Company's audit within that time.

      -     The director or an immediate family member of the director is, or
            has been within the last three years, employed as an executive
            officer of another company where any of the Company's present
            executives at the same time serves or served on that company's
            compensation committee.

      -     The director is a current employee, or an immediate family member of
            the director is a current executive officer, of a company that has
            made payments to, or received payments from, the Company for
            property or services in an amount which, in any of the last three
            fiscal years, exceeds the greater of $1 million, or 2% of such other
            company's consolidated gross revenues. The look-back provision for
            this test applies solely to the financial relationship between the

      (2) As used in these Corporate Governance Standards, "immediate family
          member" includes a person's spouse, parents, children, siblings,
          mothers and fathers-in-law, sons and daughters-in-law, brothers and
          sisters-in-law, and anyone (other than domestic employees) who shares
          such person's home. When applying the three-year lookback provisions
          described in this numbered paragraph 3, the Board need not consider
          individuals who are no longer immediate family members of the director
          as a result of legal separation or divorce, or those who have died or
          become incapacitated.

                                      -2-

Company and the director or immediate family member's current
            employer; the Board need not consider former employment of the
            director or immediate family member. Contributions to tax exempt
            organizations shall not be considered "payments" for purposes of
            this provision, but the Company shall disclose in its annual proxy
            statement any such contributions made by the Company to any tax
            exempt organization in which any independent director serves as an
            executive officer if, within the preceding three years,
            contributions in any single fiscal year exceeded the greater of $1
            million, or 2% of such tax exempt organization's consolidated gross
            revenues. In addition, the Board must consider the materiality of
            any such relationship in making its determination of independence.

      -     A director who owns, or is affiliated with the owner, of a
            controlling amount of voting stock of the Company may not be
            considered independent.

The disqualification of one director from being independent pursuant to these
provisions shall not automatically disqualify any other director on the Board
who is an immediate family member of such disqualified director but the
disqualification of an immediate family member shall be one of the facts and
circumstances considered by the Board in assessing such other director's
independence.

Moreover, the Board discourages the following types of transactions with or on
behalf of non-officer directors:

            -     the making of substantial charitable contributions to any
                  organization in which a director is affiliated;

            -     the entering into of consulting contracts with (or providing
                  other indirect forms of compensation to) directors; or

            -     the entering into of other compensatory arrangements with
                  directors that may raise questions about their independence.

4. The Audit Committee, the Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee and
the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board will consist
entirely of independent directors.

      5. Each member of the Board will act in accordance with the criteria for
selection and discharge the responsibilities set forth in the Position
Specifications(3) for a director of the Company.

      6. In addition to evaluations to be performed by the Compensation and
Management Development Committee, the Board will evaluate the performance of the
Company's Chief Executive Officer and certain other senior management positions
at least annually in meetings of independent directors that are not attended by
the Chief Executive Officer. As a general rule, the Chief Executive Officer
should not also hold the position of Chairman of

(3) See Position Specification for Member of Board of Directors of Hillenbrand
    Industries, Inc.

                                      -3-

the Board. However, if, with the Board's approval, the Chief Executive Officer
also holds the position of Chairman of the Board, the Board will elect a
non-executive Vice Chairman (or a non-executive director who is the Lead
Director). The Vice Chairman or Lead Director will preside at meetings to
evaluate the performance of the Chief Executive Officer.

      7. Every year the Board will engage management in a discussion of the
Company's strategic direction and, based on that discussion, set the Company's
strategic direction and review and approve a three-year strategic framework and
a one-year business plan.

      8. On an ongoing basis during each year, the Board will monitor the
Company's performance against its annual business plan and against the
performance of its peers. In this connection, the Board will assess the impact
of emerging political, regulatory and economic trends and developments on the
Company. The Board will hold periodic meetings devoted primarily to the review
of the Company's strategic plan and business plan and its performance against
them.

      9. The Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee will annually assess the
Board's effectiveness as a whole as well as the effectiveness of the individual
directors and the Board's various Committees, including a review of the mix of
skills, core competencies and qualifications (including independence under
applicable standards) of members of the Board and its various committees, which
should reflect expertise in one or more of the following areas: accounting and
finance, product and technology development, healthcare, death care or other low
growth industry, manufacturing, services businesses, sales and market
development, international operations, international governance, mergers and
acquisitions related business development, , strategic oversight, government
relations, investor relations, executive leadership development, public company
governance, and executive compensation design and processes. In order to make
these assessments, the Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee shall solicit
annually the opinions of each director regarding the foregoing matters. The
Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee shall present its findings and
recommendations to the Board of Directors for appropriate corrective action by
the Board. Ineffective directors shall be replaced as promptly as practicable
and inefficient Committees of the Board shall be restructured or eliminated
promptly.

      10. Directors are expected to own shares of common stock of the Company.
The Board of Directors may from time to time adopt, revise or terminate director
stock ownership guidelines. Specifically, any non-employee director who from and
after October 1, 2003 is awarded restricted shares of the Company's common stock
or restricted stock units (otherwise known as deferred stock awards) with
respect to shares of the Company's common stock shall be required to hold any
vested shares of the Company's common stock under such awards until at least the
six month anniversary from the date such director ceases to be a director of the
Company.

Directors are encouraged to limit the number of directorships that they hold in
public companies so that they can devote sufficient time to the discharge of
their responsibilities to each public company for which they serve as a
director, including the Company. The Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee
shall make recommendations to the Board regarding the membership of the several
Board committees and the chairs of such committees. The members of the several
Board committees shall be elected by the Board, after consideration of the
recommendation of

                                      -4-

the Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, at the annual meeting of the
Board to serve until the next annual meeting of the Board or until their
successors shall be duly elected and qualified. Unless the Chair of any
Committee is elected by the Board, after consideration of the recommendation of
the Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, the members of the Committee may
designate a Chair by majority vote of the Committee membership. The several
Committee Chairs will periodically report the Committee's findings and
conclusions to the Board. When any director intends to become a director of
another board of directors, that director shall provide advance notice to the
Chairman of the Board and the Secretary. Upon termination of or significant
change in a member of the Board's principal employment or acceptance of a
position as a director on a public company board that results in a director
serving on more than four more public company boards he or she shall notify the
Chairman of the Board and tender his or her resignation from the Board, which
may be rejected by the Board if the change in status is satisfactory and the
Board believes that the director will continue to be a valuable contributor to
the Board. No more than half the members of the Board may be over seventy years
of age.

      11. Succession planning and management development will be reviewed
annually by the Chief Executive Officer with the Board. The Board will review at
least annually the succession plan for the Company's Chief Executive Officer.

      12. All executive officers and designated members of management are
expected to own shares of the Company's common stock. Specifically, the Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, his or her executive officer or Grade Level V
Employee direct reports, each of their direct reports who are officers or Grade
Level V Employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, and all other Grade
V level employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries from and after the
later to occur of (i) February 13, 2006 or (ii) the date on which any such
individual first became an officer or Grade Level V Employee of the Company or
any of its subsidiaries ("Start Date") shall be required to hold shares of the
Company's common stock or equivalents described below at the following levels
("Required Ownership Level"):

POSITION                                    REQUIRED OWNERSHIP LEVEL (EXPRESSED AS
                                            BASE ANNUAL SALARY MULTIPLE)

Company Chief Executive Officer ("CEO")     4 x Base Annual Salary

CEO Executive Officer Direct Reports who
are Officers or Grade Level V Employees     2 x Base Annual Salary

Officer or Grade V Level Direct Reports of
CEO Executive Officer or Grade Level V
Direct Reports                              1 x Base Annual Salary

Other Grade V level Employees               0.75 x Base Annual Salary

-5-

Shares owned outright (including vested deferred shares) and restricted stock
units (otherwise known as deferred stock awards under the Company's Stock
Incentive Plan ("RSUs")) with respect to shares of the Company's common stock
(whether vested or unvested) will count as share equivalents towards the
Required Ownership Level. The Required Ownership Level must be achieved within
five years from the Start Date.

Failure to achieve or maintain the Required Ownership Level may result in (i)
the applicable individual being required to hold all after tax vested RSU's and
shares acquired upon exercise of stock options or (ii) suspension of future
restricted stock or RSU grants until the Required Ownership Level is achieved.
The Compensation and Management Development Committee (or its designee) may make
exceptions, in its (his or her) sole discretion, in the event of disability or
great financial hardship.

      13. Shareholders of the Company will be given an opportunity to vote on
the adoption of all equity-compensation plans and any material revisions to such
plans. Brokers may not vote a customer's shares on any equity compensation plan
unless the broker has received that customer's instructions to do so.

      14. Subject to limited exceptions permitted by law, the Company will not
directly or indirectly grant loans to executive officers or directors of the
Company that are not available to outsiders.

      15. Stock options will not be repriced, that is, the exercise price for
options will not be lowered even if the current fair market value of the
underlying shares is below their exercise price.

      16. Analyses and empirical data that are important to the directors'
understanding of the business to be conducted at a meeting of the Board or any
Committee will be distributed, to the extent practicable, in writing to all
members in advance of the meeting. Management will make every reasonable effort
to assure that this material is both concise and in sufficient detail to provide
a reasonable basis upon which directors may make an informed business decision.
In many cases, significant items requiring Board or Committee approval may be
reviewed in one or more meetings, with the intervening time being used for
clarification and discussion of relevant issues. Outside directors shall be
encouraged to provide input into the development of Board and Committee meeting
agenda.

      17. Directors shall have complete access to the Company's management. It
is assumed that directors will exercise reasonable judgment to assure that
contact of this sort is not distracting to the business operations of the
Company and that any such contact, if in writing, will be copied to the Chief
Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Board. Furthermore, the Board
encourages the Chief Executive Officer to bring managers into Board meetings
from time to time who: (a) can provide additional insight into the items being
discussed because of personal involvement in these areas, and/or (b) represent
potential members of future senior management that the Chief Executive Officer
believes should be given exposure to the Board.

      18. The Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee shall assess, from time
to time, the adequacy and suitability of the compensation package for members of
the Company's

                                      -6-

Board of Directors in relation to competitive market and sound corporate
governance practices. The Chief Executive Officer or other members of the senior
management team or other persons appointed by the Nominating/Corporate
Governance Committee shall report to the Nominating/Corporate Governance
Committee from time to time regarding the adequacy and suitability of the
Company's Board compensation package in relation to other comparable U.S.
companies. Changes in Board compensation, if any, should be suggested by the
Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee and approved only after a full
discussion among the members of the Board.

      19. The Board, with the recommendation of the Nominating/Corporate
Governance Committee, will modify from time to time the compensatory
arrangements with the Company's non-officer, non-employee directors.

      20. The Board is responsible for the enactment and approval of changes in
the Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics ("Policy Statement"). The
Board's Audit Committee has responsibility for the oversight of the
implementation and administration of the Policy Statement, the review and
assessment at least annually of the effectiveness of the Policy Statement and
the recommendation to the Board of suggested changes in the Policy Statement.

      21. The Board will consider from time to time its optimum size and will
increase or decrease from time to time, as appropriate, the number of its
members.

      22. Proposed agendas for each regularly scheduled Board meeting shall be
developed by the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Secretary,
revised, as appropriate after joint review by those individuals together with
the Chairs of each Board committee, and revised again, as appropriate after
review by each member of the Board. Likewise, proposed agendas for each
regularly scheduled Board committee meeting shall be developed by the Chair of
the applicable Board committee, management liaison and Secretary, revised, as
appropriate after joint review by those individuals together with the Chairman
of the Board and Chairs of each other Board committee, and revised again, as
appropriate after review by each member of the Board.

      23. The Board is committed to the continuing orientation and training of
new and incumbent directors at the Board and Committee levels.

      24. Any related party transactions between the Company or any of its
subsidiaries and any director or executive officer of the Company shall be
reviewed and preapproved by the Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee.

      25. The non-management directors regularly shall conduct executive
sessions without participation by any employees of the Company. The Chairman of
the Board, or, in his or her absence, the Vice Chairman of the Board, shall
preside over such executive sessions at each regularly scheduled meeting of the
Board of Directors. The Chairman of each of the Nominating/Corporate Governance,
Compensation and Management Development and Audit Committees of the Board, or,
in his or her absence, the Vice Chairman of each of those committees, shall
preside over executive sessions of those committees without participation by any
employees of the Company at each regularly scheduled meeting of those
committees. The

                                      -7-

names of the directors who will preside at those regularly scheduled executive
sessions shall be publicly disclosed.

      26. While the information needed for the Board's decision making generally
will be found within the Company, from time to time the Board may seek legal or
other expert advise from sources independent of management. Generally such
advice will be sought with the knowledge and concurrence of the Chief Executive
Officer. Accordingly, the Board shall have the sole authority to engage,
compensate, oversee and terminate external independent consultants, counsel and
other advisors as it determines necessary to carry out its responsibilities. The
Company shall provide appropriate funding (as determined by each committee) for
payment of compensation to advisors engaged by the Board.

      27. Likewise, each committee of the Board shall have the sole authority to
engage, compensate, oversee and terminate external independent consultants,
counsel and other advisors as it determines necessary to carry out its duties,
including the resolution of any disagreements between management and the auditor
regarding financial reporting. The Company shall provide appropriate funding (as
determined by each committee) for payment of compensation to advisors engaged by
the committees.

      28. These Corporate Governance Standards have been developed and approved
by the Board. The Board will review at least annually the practices incorporated
into these Corporate Governance Standards by comparing them to the standards
identified by leading governance authorities and the evolving needs of the
Company and determine whether these Corporate Governance Standards should be
updated. These Corporate Governance Standards shall be published on the
Company's website.

                                      -8-

</EX-10.34>

<EX-21>
 3
 c10438exv21.txt
 SUBSIDIARIES

EXHIBIT 21
                          HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC.
                         SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

     All subsidiaries of the Company as of November 17, 2006 are wholly-owned
Indiana corporations, unless otherwise noted.

       Batesville Services, Inc.
       Hill-Rom, Inc.
       The Acorn Development Group, Inc.
       Sycamore Insurance Company Limited, a South Carolina corporation

       Subsidiaries of Batesville Services, Inc.
          Batesville Casket Company, Inc.
          Batesville Casket Co. South Africa Pty, Ltd., a South Africa
          corporation
          Batesville International Corporation
          Batesville Logistics, Inc.
          Batesville Manufacturing, Inc.
          Batesville Casket de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., a Mexican corporation
          Green Tree Manufacturing, Inc.
          MCP, Inc.
          Modern Wood Products, Inc.
          WCP, Inc.
          Trinity Casket Company, Inc., an Alabama corporation

       Subsidiary of Batesville Casket Company, Inc.
          North Star Industries, LLC

       Subsidiary of Batesville Casket de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
          Industrias Arga, S.A. de C.V., a Mexican corporation

       Subsidiaries of Hill-Rom, Inc.
          Hill-Rom Company, Inc.
          Advanced Respiratory, Inc., a Minnesota corporation
          Allen Medical Systems, Inc.
          MEDIQ, Incorporated, a Delaware corporation

       Subsidiaries of Hill-Rom Company, Inc.
          NaviCare Systems, LLC
          Hill-Rom International, Inc.
          Hill-Rom Manufacturing, Inc., a Delaware corporation
          MEDIQ/PRN Life Support Services, LLC, a Delaware limited liability
          company

       Subsidiaries of Hill-Rom International Inc.
          Hill-Rom Australia Pty, Ltd, an Australian corporation
          Hill-Rom Asia Limited, a Hong-Kong corporation

       Subsidiaries of Hill-Rom Australia Pty, Ltd.
          Medicraft Manufacturing Pty. Ltd
          Medicraft Australia Pty. Ltd

       Jointly owned by Medicraft Manufacturing Pty, Ltd and Medicraft Australia
       Pty. Ltd.
          Medicraft Australia Unit Trust

       Subsidiary of Hill-Rom Asia Limited
          Hill-Rom Business Services Co., LTD, a Hong-Kong corporation

                                       1

Subsidiary of Hill-Rom Manufacturing Inc.
          Hill-Rom Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation

       Subsidiary of Hill-Rom Services, Inc.
          Hill-Rom SARL, a French corporation

       Subsidiary of Allen Medical Systems, Inc.
          AMATECH Corporation

       Jointly owned subsidiary of Hill-Rom Services, Inc. and Hill-Rom, Inc.
          Hill-Rom International B.V., a Netherlands corporation

       Subsidiaries of Hill-Rom International B.V.
          Hill-Rom B.V., a Netherlands corporation
          Hill-Rom Ltd., a United Kingdom corporation
          Hillrom S.A., a Switzerland corporation
          Hill-Rom Austria GmbH, an Austrian corporation

       Subsidiary of Hill-Rom B.V.
          Hill-Rom Finland, a Finland Corporation

       Subsidiaries of Hill-Rom, Ltd. (UK)
          Hill-Rom (UK), Ltd., a United Kingdom corporation
          Batesville Casket UK, Ltd., a United Kingdom corporation

       Jointly owned subsidiary of Hill-Rom International B.V. and Hill-Rom
       Services, Inc.
          Hill-Rom GmbH, a German corporation

       Subsidiaries of Hill-Rom SARL
          Hill-Rom Industries SA, a French corporation
          Hill-Rom, S.p.A, an Italian corporation
          Hill-Rom SAS, a French corporation
          SCI Le Couviour Immoblier, a French corporation
          Hill-Rom Iberia S.L., a Spanish corporation
          Hill-Rom AB, a Swedish corporation

       Jointly owned by Hill-Rom SARL and Hill-Rom SAS
          Hill-Rom sro, a Czech Republic corporation

       Jointly owned subsidiary of Batesville International Corporation,
       Hill-Rom, Inc., Hill-Rom Manufacturing, Inc. and Hill-Rom Company, Inc.
          Hillenbrand Industries Canada, Ltd., an Ontario (Canada) corporation

       Jointly owned by Green Tree Manufacturing, Inc. and
       Modern Wood Products, Inc.
          Global Products Co, Inc., S.A. de C.V., a Mexican corporation

       Jointly owned by MCP, Inc. and WCP, Inc.
          NADCO, S.A. de C.V., a Mexican corporation

                                       2

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 c10438exv23.txt
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

EXHIBIT 23

            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements on Form S-3 (No. 333-107016) and Form S-8 (Nos. 33-38465, 333-49669,
333-88354 and 333-88328) of Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. of our report dated
December 5, 2006 relating to the financial statements, financial statement
schedule, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
- ------------------------------
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Cincinnati, Ohio
December 5, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 c10438exv31w1.txt
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

EXHIBIT 31.1

                                 CERTIFICATIONS

     CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE
                           SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Peter H. Soderberg, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Hillenbrand Industries,
Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the periods covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision,
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.

Date: December 5, 2006

/S/ Peter H. Soderberg
- -------------------------------------
Peter H. Soderberg
President and Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 c10438exv31w2.txt
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

EXHIBIT 31.2

                                 CERTIFICATIONS

     CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE
                           SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Gregory N. Miller, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Hillenbrand Industries,
Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the periods covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision,
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.

Date: December 5, 2006

/S/ Gregory N. Miller
- ---------------------------------
Gregory N. Miller
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 c10438exv32w1.txt
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

EXHIBIT 32.1

  CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
      AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Annual Report of Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. (the
"Company") on Form 10-K for the period ending September 30, 2006 as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I,
Peter H. Soderberg, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

     (1)  The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or
          15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

     (2)  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
          material respects, the financial condition and results of operations
          of the Company.

/S/ Peter H. Soderberg
- ------------------------
Peter H. Soderberg
President and Chief Executive Officer
December 5, 2006

A SIGNED ORIGINAL OF THIS WRITTEN STATEMENT REQUIRED BY SECTION 906 HAS BEEN
PROVIDED TO HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC. AND WILL BE RETAINED BY HILLENBRAND
INDUSTRIES, INC. AND FURNISHED TO THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OR ITS
STAFF UPON REQUEST.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 c10438exv32w2.txt
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

EXHIBIT 32.2

  CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
      AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Annual Report of Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. (the
"Company") on Form 10-K for the period ending September 30, 2006 as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I,
Gregory N. Miller, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

      (1)   The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or
            15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

      (2)   The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
            material respects, the financial condition and results of operations
            of the Company.

/S/  Gregory N. Miller
- -------------------------------------------------
Gregory N. Miller
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
December 5, 2006

A SIGNED ORIGINAL OF THIS WRITTEN STATEMENT REQUIRED BY SECTION 906 HAS BEEN
PROVIDED TO HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC. AND WILL BE RETAINED BY HILLENBRAND
INDUSTRIES, INC. AND FURNISHED TO THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OR ITS
STAFF UPON REQUEST.

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.1>
 9
 c10438exv99w1.txt
 CHARTER OF AUDIT COMMITTEE

EXHIBIT 99.1

                  HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC. (THE "COMPANY")

                             AUDIT COMMITTEE CHARTER

            (As approved by Board of Directors on September 14, 2006)

MISSION STATEMENT

The Audit Committee ("Committee") shall assist the Board of Directors of the
Company ("Board") in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities regarding
financial reports and financial controls of the Company. In discharging that
role, the Committee shall review the Company's financial reporting process, its
system of internal controls regarding accounting, legal and regulatory
compliance and ethics that management or the Board, as the case may be, have
established and the internal and external audit processes of the Company. The
Committee will endeavor to maintain effective working relationships with the
Board, management, and the internal and external auditors. Each Committee member
will maintain an understanding of the requirements of membership which are
necessary to meet and fulfill Committee responsibilities.

ORGANIZATION

The Board shall arrange that:

1.    The Committee shall be comprised of at least three members of the Board,
      each of whom must meet the independence criteria set forth in the
      Company's Corporate Governance Standards for the Board of Directors and as
      required by the New York Stock Exchange, the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934 and the rules and regulations of the Securities Exchange Commission
      at all times during his or her tenure on the Committee. No member of the
      Committee may, other than in his or her capacity as a member of the
      Committee, the Board or any other committee of the Board,

            (a) accept, directly or indirectly(1), any consulting, advisory or
      other compensatory fee from the Company or any of its subsidiaries,
      provided that, unless the rules of the New York Stock Exchange provide
      otherwise, compensatory fees do not include the receipt of fixed amounts
      of compensation under a retirement plan (including deferred compensation)
      for prior service with the Company (provided that such compensation is not
      contingent in any way on continued service); or

- ------------
(1)   Payments by the Company of the following sort will be deemed to constitute
      indirect acceptance of compensatory payments and accordingly will render a
      member of the Board ineligible for service on the Committee: (a) payments
      to an entity in which the member is a partner, member, officer such as a
      managing director occupying a comparable position or executive officer, or
      occupies a similar position (except limited partners, non-managing members
      and those occupying similar positions who, in each case, have no active
      role in providing services to the Company) and which provides accounting,
      consulting, legal, investment banking or financial advisory services to
      the Company or any of its subsidiaries; and (b) payments to the member's
      spouse, minor child or stepchild or adult child or stepchild sharing the
      member's home.

(b) be an affiliated person(2) of the Company or any of its
      subsidiaries.

2.    All members of the Committee should possess, at a minimum, basic financial
      literacy, as such qualification is interpreted by the Board, or acquire
      such literacy within a reasonable period of time from joining the
      Committee. At the present time, the Board interprets "financial literacy"
      to mean the ability to read and understand audited and unaudited
      consolidated financial statements (including the related notes) and
      monthly operating statements of the sort released or prepared by the
      Company, as the case may be, in the normal course of its business. The
      Chair of the Committee shall be available, capable, qualified and
      competent in dealing with financial and related issues.

3. At least one member of the Committee shall be an "audit committee financial
expert" (as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission) who shall have
all of the following attributes:

      -     an understanding of generally accepted accounting principles and
            financial statements;

      -     the ability to assess the general application of generally accepted
            accounting principles in connection with the accounting for
            estimates, accruals and reserves;

      -     experience in preparing, auditing, analyzing or evaluating financial
            statements that present a breadth and level of complexity of
            accounting issues that are generally comparable to the breadth and
            complexity of issues that can reasonably be expected to be raised by
            the Company's financial statements, or experience in actively
            supervising one or more persons engaged in such activities;

      -     an understanding of internal controls and procedures for financial
            reporting; and

      -     an understanding of the audit committee function.

- ----------
(2)   An "affiliated person" or "affiliate" of a specified person, means a
      person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries,
      controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the
      specified person. The term "control" (including the terms "controlling",
      "controlled by" and "under common control with") means the possession,
      direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the
      management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of
      voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. A person who is not an
      executive officer of the specified person and is not the beneficial owner,
      directly or indirectly, of more than 10% of any class of voting equity
      securities of a specified person will be deemed not to be in control of
      the specified person, and an executive officer, general partner or
      managing member of an affiliate, or a director who is also is an employee
      of an affiliate, shall be deemed also to be an affiliate.

            A Committee member who sits on the board of directors of both the
      Company and an affiliate of the Company is exempt from the "affiliated
      person" requirement if the Committee member, except for being a director
      on each such board of directors, otherwise meets the independence
      requirements described in clauses (a) and (b) for both the Company and the
      affiliate, including the receipt of only ordinary-course compensation for
      serving as a member of the board of directors, audit committee or any
      other board committee of the Company or the affiliate.

                                      -2-

An audit committee financial expert must have acquired these attributes
      through any one or more of the following:

      -     education and experience as a principal financial officer, principal
            accounting officer, controller, public accountant or auditor or
            experience in one or more positions that involve the performance of
            similar functions;

      -     experience actively supervising a principal financial officer,
            principal accounting officer, controller, public accountant, auditor
            or person performing similar functions;

      -     experience overseeing or assessing the performance of companies or
            public accountants with respect to the preparation, auditing or
            evaluation of financial statements; or

      -     other relevant experience.

4. No director shall be appointed to or remain on the Committee who is
simultaneously serving on the audit committees of two or more other public
companies unless the Board determines that such simultaneous service would not
impair the ability of such member to serve on the Committee and such
determination is disclosed in the Company's annual proxy statement.

5. The members of the Committee shall be elected by the Board annually, based on
a recommendation by the Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee to serve until
the next annual meeting of the Board or until their successors shall be duly
elected and qualified. Unless a Chair is designated by the Board, the members of
the Committee may designate a Chairman by majority vote of the Committee
membership. The Board may remove a member from the Committee with or without
cause. The Committee's Chair will periodically report the Committee's findings
and conclusions to the Board. The Committee will be assisted by the Company's
Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel. The Company's Secretary or any
Assistant Secretary will serve as executive secretary of the Committee.

6. Committee meetings shall be held not less frequently than quarterly, usually
in conjunction with the Company's regular quarterly Board meetings. The
Committee may choose to meet more frequently, if needed. A majority of the
Committee members will constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at
any meeting of the Committee. Action of the majority at any such meeting will be
the action of the Committee.

ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

The following functions shall be the common recurring activities of the
Committee in carrying out its oversight function. These functions are set forth
as a guide with the understanding that the Committee may diverge from this guide
as appropriate under any particular set of circumstances.

                                      -3-

FINANCIAL REPORTING

The Committee shall:

1.    Review with management and the external auditors any financial statement
      issues and the results of the audit including (a) the initial selection of
      or changes in significant accounting policies used in developing the
      financial statements, the reasons for and impact of any changes in policy
      and reasons alternative treatments were not adopted and (b) any
      off-balance sheet transactions, special purpose entities, transactions
      with affiliated companies and related parties and the effect of regulatory
      and accounting initiatives.

2.    Review management's disposition of proposed significant audit adjustments
      as identified by the external auditors.

3.    Inquire into the fairness of the statements and disclosures by requesting
      explanations from management and from the internal and external auditors
      on whether:

      -     Generally accepted accounting principles have been consistently
            applied.

      -     There are any significant or unusual events or transactions.

      -     The Company's financial and operating controls are functioning
            effectively.

      -     The Company's financial statements contain adequate and appropriate
            disclosures.

4.    Review with the external auditors their views as to the quality of the
      Company's accounting principles and financial reporting practices.

5.    Meet to review and discuss with management and the external auditors the
      Company's annual audited financial statements and quarterly financial
      statements and recommend to the Board the inclusion of the Company's
      audited financial statements in its Annual Report on Form 10-K and
      Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.

6.    Prior to the Company's filing of each Annual Report on Form 10-K and
      Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, meet to review and discuss with management
      and the external auditors the content of such filing, including the
      disclosures under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results of Operations," and review any exceptions to the
      certifications required of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
      Officer in connection with such filings. The Committee shall also discuss
      with the external auditors the matters required to be brought to the
      Committee's attention by Statement on Auditing Standards No. 61, as well
      as other matters that should be communicated to the Committee by the
      external auditors. The Committee shall receive annually the Independence
      Standards Board Standard No. 1 letter disclosing all relationships between
      the external auditor and the Company, discuss it with the external
      auditor, assess impacts on the auditor's independence, and make
      recommendations needed to the Board for actions to ensure the auditor's
      independence.

                                      -4-

7.    Discuss with management, prior to their dissemination, earnings press
      releases, as well as financial information and earnings guidance provided
      to analysts and rating agencies, provided that, if it is not otherwise
      practicable for the entire Committee to review revisions to earnings
      guidance, such review may be performed by the Chairman of the Committee.

INTERNAL CONTROL

The Committee shall:

1.    Review with management, as well as internal and external auditors, the
      Company's business risk management process, including the adequacy of the
      Company's overall control environment and controls in selected areas
      representing significant financial and business risk.

2.    Require that the internal and external auditors and management keep the
      Committee informed about any significant fraud, illegal acts, or
      deficiencies in internal control, and similar significant matters.

3.    Create an opportunity that significant findings and recommendations made
      by the internal and external auditors can be received and discussed on a
      timely basis.

4.    Review and discuss with management, as well as the internal and external
      auditors, management's report on internal control over financial reporting
      and the report of the external auditors on management's assessment of
      internal control over financial reporting prior to the filing of the
      Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. Gain an understanding of whether
      internal control recommendations made by internal and external auditors
      have been implemented by management.

5.    Inquire as to the extent to which internal and external auditors review
      computer systems and applications and the security of such systems and
      applications.

INTERNAL AUDIT

1.    The Committee shall review as often as it deems necessary but at least
      annually:

      -     The internal audit charter, annual audit plan, activities and
            organizational structure of the internal audit function.

      -     The qualifications and operational independence of the internal
            audit function and, when necessary, participate in the appointment,
            replacement, reassignment, or dismissal of the Director of Internal
            Audit.

      -     The effectiveness of the internal audit function including
            compliance with the Institute of Internal Auditors' (IIA) Standards
            for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.

                                      -5-

2.    The Committee shall also review periodically as it deems appropriate the
      reports prepared by the internal audit staff and management's responses to
      such reports.

EXTERNAL AUDIT

1.    The Committee shall review:

      -     The external auditors' proposed audit scope and approach.

      -     The performance of the external auditors.

2.    The Committee shall have the direct responsibility for and the sole
      authority to engage, compensate, oversee, retain and terminate (subject,
      where applicable, to shareholder ratification) any accounting firm engaged
      (including the resolution of any disagreements between management and the
      Company's external auditors regarding financial reporting) for the purpose
      of preparing or issuing an audit report or performing other audit, review
      or attest services for the Company and such firm shall report directly to
      the Committee. The Company shall provide appropriate funding (as
      determined by the Committee) for payment of compensation to the Company's
      external auditors. The Committee shall have ultimate authority to approve
      all audit engagement fees and terms.

3.    The Committee must approve in advance all auditing services, internal
      control-related services and permitted non-audit services performed by the
      Company's external auditors, including tax services, subject to the de
      minimus exception for non-audit services described in Section 10A(i)1(B)
      of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Committee may delegate to its
      Chairman the authority to pre-approve such non-audit services between
      regularly scheduled meetings provided that such approvals are reported to
      the Committee at the next committee meeting. Notwithstanding the
      foregoing, the Company's external auditors may not provide the following
      services to the Company: bookkeeping or other services related to the
      accounting records or financial statements of the Company; financial
      information systems design and implementation; appraisal or valuation
      services, fairness opinions or contribution-in kind reports; actuarial
      services; internal audit outsourcing services; management functions or
      human resources; broker or dealer, or investment adviser or investment
      banking services; legal services and expert services unrelated to the
      audit; and any other service that the applicable federal oversight
      regulatory authority determines, by regulation, is impermissible.
      Non-audit services approved by the Committee and performed by the
      Company's external auditors must be disclosed to investors in the
      Company's reports on Form 10-K and/or proxy statements for its annual
      meetings of shareholders.

4.    The lead (or coordinating) audit partner and the concurring or reviewing
      partner associated with the Company's external auditors must be changed at
      least every five years.

5.    The Committee cannot engage external auditors to perform audit services
      for the Company if the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
      Officer, Chief Accounting Officer or any person in an equivalent position
      was employed by such external auditors within one year preceding the
      initiation of the audit.

                                      -6-

6.    The Committee may not engage external auditors to perform audit services
      for the Company if the external auditors are otherwise not independent
      with respect to the Company in accordance with Rule 2-01 of Securities and
      Exchange Commission Regulation S-X (or any successor rule), any
      independence standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight
      Board and any other applicable standards.

7.    The Committee shall, at least annually, use its best efforts to obtain and
      review a report from the external auditors addressing: (a) the auditors
      internal quality-control procedures; (b) any material issues raised by the
      most recent internal quality-control review, peer review or Public Company
      Accounting Oversight Board review of the external auditors or by any
      inquiry or investigation by governmental or professional authorities,
      within the preceding five years, respecting one or more independent audits
      carried out by the external auditors and any steps taken to deal with any
      such issues; and (c) the independence of the external auditors, including
      a discussion of any relationships or services that may impact their
      objectivity and independence.

8.    The Committee shall obtain from the external auditors in connection with
      any audit a timely report relating to the Company's annual audited
      financial statements describing all critical accounting policies and
      practices to be used; all alternative treatments within generally accepted
      accounting principles for policies and practices related to material items
      that have been discussed with management, including ramifications of the
      use of such alternative disclosures and treatments and the treatment
      preferred by the external auditors; and any material written
      communications between the external auditors and management, such as any
      management letter or schedule of unadjusted differences.

OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES

The Committee shall:

1.    Meet at least quarterly, with the external auditors, Director of Internal
      Audit, and management (including the Company's Chief Executive Officer,
      Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel) in separate executive
      sessions to discuss any matters that the Committee or these groups believe
      should be discussed privately.

2.    Update the Board about Committee activities and make appropriate
      recommendations, as often as the Board deems appropriate.

3.    Annually review and assess the continuing adequacy of this Charter and the
      performance of this Committee and its members and, if appropriate,
      recommend changes for the approval of the Board.

4.    Prepare a report to shareholders to be included in the Company's proxy
      statements as required by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

5.    Perform any other activities consistent with this Charter, the Company's
      Code of By-laws and governing law, as the Committee or the Board deems
      necessary, appropriate or desirable.

                                      -7-

6.    As appropriate, obtain advice and assistance from outside legal,
      accounting or other advisors without the necessity for prior authorization
      by the Board.

7.    Establish policies for the hiring by the Company of present or former
      employees of the Company's external auditors.

8.    Review with management the policies and procedures with respect to
      officers' expense reports and perquisites, including their use of
      corporate assets, and consider the results of any review of these areas by
      the internal auditor or the independent accountants.

ETHICAL, LEGAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE

The Committee shall:

1.    Review and assess at least annually the Company's Code of Ethical Business
      Conduct (the "Policy Statement"), recommend to the Board of Directors
      changes in the Policy Statement as conditions warrant and confirm that
      management has established a system to monitor compliance with the Policy
      Statement by officers and relevant employees of the Company.

2.    Review management's monitoring of the Company's compliance with the Policy
      Statement, and confirm that management has a review system in place to
      maximize the likelihood that the Company's financial statements, reports
      and other financial information disseminated to governmental organizations
      and the public satisfy applicable legal requirements.

3.    Review, with the Company's counsel, legal and regulatory compliance
      matters including corporate securities trading policies.

4.    Review, with the Company's counsel, any legal or regulatory matter that
      could have a significant impact on the Company's financial statements.

5.    The Committee shall establish procedures for (a) the receipt, retention
      and treatment of complaints received by the Company regarding accounting,
      internal accounting controls or auditing matters and (b) the confidential,
      anonymous submission by employees of the Company of concerns regarding
      questionable accounting or auditing matters.

6.    The Committee shall promote an organizational culture that encourages
      commitment to compliance with the law and use good faith efforts to assure
      that corporate information and reporting systems exists that are adequate
      to assure that appropriate information as to compliance matters comes to
      its attention in a timely manner as a matter of ordinary operations.

                                      -8-

OPERATIONS

The Committee shall conduct its operations in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Article 4 of the Company's Code of By-Laws applicable to the operations
of the Board, except to the extent that such procedures are modified on
superseded by the terms of this Charter. The Committee shall have the authority
to adopt such additional procedures for the conduct of its business as are not
inconsistent with those referred to in the preceding sentence. Except as
otherwise expressly provided herein, the Committee shall have no authority to
delegate its responsibilities to any subcommittee.

GENERAL LIMITATIONS

The Committee's responsibility is oversight, and it and the Board recognize that
the Company's management is responsible for preparing the Company's financial
statements. Additionally, the Committee recognizes that financial management,
the internal audit staff, and the external auditors, have more knowledge and
more detailed information about the Company than do the members of the
Committee. Consequently, in carrying out its oversight responsibilities the
Committee is not providing any expert or special assurance as to the Company's
financial statements or any professional certification of the financial
statements prepared by management or the audit work performed by the internal or
external auditors.

The Board recognizes that the members of the Committee will discharge the
foregoing oversight responsibilities by evaluating (a) reports given to them,
(b) presentations made to the them and (c) other significant financial reporting
decisions which are reported to them by management, internal auditors and
external auditors. Within the bounds of sound business judgment and assessment,
and to the extent permitted by the Indiana Business Corporation Law, each member
of the Committee shall be entitled to rely on the integrity of the individuals
and organizations from whom they receive such information. In discharging his or
her duties as a member of the Committee, each member is entitled to rely on
information, opinions, reports or statements, including financial statements and
other financial data, that is prepared and presented by either (i) one or more
officers or employees of the Company who the member reasonably believes to be
reliable and competent in the matters presented or (ii) legal counsel, external
independent auditors or other persons as to the matters the member reasonably
believes are within the person's professional or expert competence. The
Committee may also retain independent counsel, accountants or other outside
advisors, as it deems appropriate, and the Company shall provide appropriate
funding (as determined by the Committee) for payment of compensations to such
advisors retained by the Committee. Furthermore, in fulfilling their
responsibilities hereunder, it is recognized that members of the Committee are
not full-time employees of the Company and are not, and do not hold themselves
out to be, accountants or auditors by profession or experts in the fields of
accounting or auditing.

-9-

</EX-99.1>

<EX-99.2>
 10
 c10438exv99w2.txt
 CHARTER OF FINANCE COMMITTEE

EXHIBIT 99.2

                          HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   FINANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

                                     CHARTER

            (As approved by Board of Directors on September 14, 2006)

I.    PURPOSE

      The primary function of the Finance Committee (the "Committee") is to
assist the Board of Directors of Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. (the "Company") in
optimizing the Company's capital structure by appropriately balancing the
Company's short-term liquidity requirements with its longer-term objectives of
stimulating the growth and expansion of the Company's businesses. Additionally,
the Committee is responsible for overseeing the investment of the Company's
assets pending their final utilization in the Company's operations.

II.   COMPOSITION

      The Committee shall be comprised of three or more directors as determined
by the Board. The members of the Committee shall be elected by the Board
annually, based on a recommendation by the Nominating/Corporate Governance
Committee to serve until the next annual meeting of the Board or until their
successors shall be duly elected and qualified. Unless a Chair is elected by the
Board, the members of the Committee may designate a Chair by majority vote of
the Committee membership. The Board may remove a member from the Committee with
or without cause. The Chair will periodically report the Committee's findings
and conclusions to the Board.

III.  MEETINGS

      The Committee shall meet at least two times annually, or more frequently
as circumstances dictate. In furtherance of the Committee's responsibility to
optimize the Company's corporate structure, the Committee should meet at least
annually with the Company's Chief Financial Officer to discuss current trends in
corporate finance. The Committee will be assisted by the Company's Treasurer and
Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, any of whom will serve as executive
secretary of the Committee.

      A majority of the Committee members will constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business at any meeting of the Committee. Action of the majority
at any such meeting will be the action of the Committee.

IV.   RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES

1.    The Committee, in consultation with the Company's Chief Financial Officer,
      shall review and, if appropriate, approve the recommendations of
      management regarding:

      -     The amounts and types of debt and equity securities that are being
            issued by comparably sized and situated companies in order to
            determine the range of securities that might be available for
            issuance by the Company to meet its funding requirements.

-     The debt to equity ratios of the Company and its peers to confirm
            that the Company is being operated in accordance with prudent
            operating practices and determine whether the Company is
            under-leveraged or over-leveraged in comparison with its peers.

      -     Trends in short and long term interest rates in order to develop
            strategies to meet, in the most cost-effective manner, the
            consolidated funding requirements of the Company over the long term.

      -     The Company's foreign exchange exposure and operations.

      -     The propriety and availability of alternative types of capital
            raising alternatives such as commercial paper lines, revolving and
            term bank credit facilities, high-yield debt instruments, investment
            grade debt instruments, capital and financing lease transactions,
            special purpose finance vehicles, derivative securities, synthetic
            leases and other financing alternatives.

      -     The investment of the Company's assets in investments of appropriate
            type and duration in order to meet the Company's anticipated funding
            requirements.

      -     The financing of property and equipment leases and purchases or
            construction of fixed assets and other capital expenditures not
            included in the annual budget and exceeding levels for which the
            Board has delegated approval authority to management.

      -     The changes in the Company's equity ownership from
            quarter-to-quarter, including the composition of the ownership
            (investment styles) and how well it matches expected financial
            performance.

      -     Issues and concerns raised by stockholders regarding the Company's
            financial and operating results, and expected corporate performance.

      -     The reaction equity investors may have to any corporate
            announcements including acquisitions, divestitures and other
            significant asset changes, or any crisis situations that may beset
            the corporation or its operating companies.

      -     The positioning of the Company and/or its operating companies in any
            media that may reasonably be expected to affect investor perception
            and change the equity valuation or debt ratings of the Company.

      -     The coverage the Company receives from securities analysts and
            actions required to appropriately increase that coverage.

2.    The Committee shall also:

      -     Consider the recommendations of management and make recommendations
            to the Board concerning: (a) the Company's annual capital
            expenditure budget; (b) the declaration and payment of cash and
            stock dividends; (c) the propriety and means of effecting stock
            repurchases; (d) the timing of public offerings and private
            placements of debt and equity securities; (e) ways to enhance the
            depth and liquidity of the trading markets for the Company's debt
            and equity securities; and (f) the identity of any additional
            national and international stock exchanges upon which the Company's
            securities should be listed. The

                                      -2-

Committee and the Board hereby delegate to the Chief Executive
            Officer and the Chief Financial Officer the authority to engage and
            terminate the Company's commercial and investment bankers in
            connection with transactions otherwise requiring Board approval.

      -     Review any rating agency ratings applied to the Company and proposed
            changes to such ratings.

      -     Perform such additional functions and have such additional powers as
            may from time to time be expressly delegated to the Committee by the
            Board.

      -     Review this Charter and assess the performance of this Committee and
            its members at least annually and update as conditions warrant.

                                      -3-

</EX-99.2>

<EX-99.3>
 11
 c10438exv99w3.txt
 CHARTER OF NOMINATING/CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE

EXHIBIT 99.3
                          HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC.

                         NOMINATING/CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                       COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

                                     CHARTER

            (As approved by Board of Directors on September 14, 2006)

I.    PURPOSE

      The primary function of the Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee (the
"Committee") is to assist the Board of Directors of Hillenbrand Industries, Inc.
(the "Company") in: (a) fulfilling its responsibility for assuring that the
Company is operated in accordance with prudent and practical corporate
governance standards, (b) achieving its objective that a majority of its members
be independent, qualified persons at the earliest practicable time and from time
to time in conformity with the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and
applicable regulations and (c) identifying qualified individuals to serve on the
Board of Directors of the Company.

II.   COMPOSITION

The Committee shall be comprised of at least three members of the Board, each of
whom must meet the independence criteria set forth in the Company's Corporate
Governance Standards for the Board of Directors at all times during his or her
tenure on the Committee. The members of the Committee shall be elected annually
by the Board, based on a recommendation by the Committee to serve until the next
annual meeting of the Board or until their successors shall be duly elected and
qualified. Unless a Chair is elected by the Board, the members of the Committee
may designate a Chair by majority vote of the Committee membership. The Board
may remove a member from the Committee with or without cause. The Chair will
periodically report the Committee's findings and conclusions to the Board.

III.  MEETINGS AND OPERATIONS

      The Committee shall meet at least two times annually, or more frequently
as circumstances dictate. The Committee will be assisted by the Company's Vice
President, General Counsel with respect to its nominating function and
governance matters. The Company's Secretary or any Assistant Secretary will
serve as executive secretary of the Committee.

      A majority of the Committee members will constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business at any meeting of the Committee. Action of the majority
at any such meeting will be the action of the Committee. The Committee shall
conduct its operations in accordance with the procedures set forth in Article 4
of the Company's Code of By-Laws applicable to the operations

of the Board, except to the extent that such procedures are modified on
superseded by the terms of this Charter. The Committee shall have the authority
to adopt such additional procedures for the conduct of its business as are not
inconsistent with those referred to in the preceding sentence. The Committee
shall have no authority to delegate its responsibilities to any subcommittee.

IV.   RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES

      To fulfill its responsibilities and duties, the Committee shall:

1.    Review from time to time and, if appropriate, recommend to the Board
      changes to the corporate governance standards for the Board of Directors
      of the Company and its committees, including committee charters.

2.    Review from time to time, and, if appropriate, make changes to, the
      statement setting forth the responsibilities of directors and the
      qualifications for new nominees for election to the Board.

3.    Review from time to time, and, if appropriate, make changes to, the
      statements setting forth the responsibilities of and the qualifications
      for the Chairman of the Board and the Vice Chairman of the Board.

4.    Annually assess the Board's effectiveness as a whole as well as the
      effectiveness of the individual directors and the Board's various
      committees, including a review of the mix of skills, core competencies and
      qualifications of members of the Board, which should reflect expertise in
      one or more of the following areas: accounting and finance, product and
      technology development, healthcare, death care or other low growth
      industry, manufacturing, services businesses, sales and market
      development, international operations, international governance, mergers
      and acquisitions related business development, , strategic oversight,
      government relations, investor relations, executive leadership
      development, public company governance, and executive compensation design
      and processes. In order to make these assessments, the Committee shall
      solicit annually the opinions of each director regarding the foregoing
      matters. Ineffective directors shall be replaced as promptly as
      practicable and inefficient committees of the Board shall be restructured
      or eliminated promptly.

5.    If deemed necessary, select and retain an executive search firm to
      identify qualified candidates to serve as members of the Board,
      considering effectiveness, responsiveness and other relevant factors, and
      approve the fees and other compensation to be paid to the executive search
      firm.

6.    Review the performance of the executive search firm and approve any
      proposed discharge of the executive search firm when circumstances
      warrant.

7.    Select and recommend to the Board, director nominees for election at each
      annual meeting of shareholders, as well as director nominees to fill
      vacancies arising between annual meetings of shareholders.

                                      -2-

8.    When deemed necessary or appropriate, make recommendations to the Board
      regarding the appointment or replacement of the Chairman of the Board and
      the Vice Chairman of the Board. Assess, at least annually, the adequacy
      and suitability of the compensation package for members of the Company's
      Board of Directors in relation to competitive market and sound corporate
      governance practices. The Chief Executive Officer or other members of the
      senior management team or other persons appointed by the Committee shall
      report to the Committee once a year regarding the adequacy and suitability
      of the Company's Board compensation package in relation to other
      comparable U.S. companies. Changes in Board compensation, if any, should
      be suggested by the Committee and approved only after a full discussion
      among the members of the Board.

9.    Recommend to the Board annually, based on a consideration of all relevant
      facts and circumstances, whether each director is independent (as that
      term is defined in the Corporate Governance Standards for the Board of
      Directors).

10.   Make recommendations with respect to composition of Board committees.

11.   Assess the adequacy of and make recommendations to the Board regarding
      directors' and officers' insurance coverage.

12.   Review and make recommendations to the Board regarding any shareholder
      proposals.

13.   Perform such additional functions and have such additional powers as may
      from time to time be expressly delegated to the Committee by the Board.

14.   Determine requirements for, and means of, director orientation and
      training.

15.   Review this Charter and assess the performance of the members of Committee
      at least annually and recommend updates and changes to the Board as
      conditions warrant.

16.   Review and pre approve any related party transactions between the Company
      or any of its subsidiaries and any director or executive officer of the
      Company.

                                      -3-

</EX-99.3>

<EX-99.4>
 12
 c10438exv99w4.txt
 CHARTER OF COMPENSATION AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE

EXHIBIT 99.4

                          HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC.

            COMPENSATION AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE OF THE
                           BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHARTER

            (As approved by Board of Directors on September 14, 2006)

I.    PURPOSE

      The primary function of the Compensation and Management Development
Committee (the "Committee") is to assist the Board of Directors of Hillenbrand
Industries, Inc. (the "Company") in fulfilling its responsibility for assuring
that the officers and key management personnel of the Company are effectively
compensated in terms of salaries, supplemental compensation and other benefits
which are internally equitable, externally competitive and advance the long term
interests of the Company's shareholders. The Committee is also responsible to
review and assess the talent development and succession management actions
concerning the officers and key employees of the Company.

II.   COMPOSITION

The Committee shall be comprised of at least three members of the Board, each of
whom must meet the independence criteria set forth in the Company's Corporate
Governance Standards for the Board of Directors at all times during his or her
tenure on the Committee.

The Board believes that any director who is "independent" should also qualify as
a "non-employee director"(1) under Rule 16b-3 promulgated by the Securities and
Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
"Exchange Act"), and as an "outside director"(2) under Section 162(m)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the "Code"), as

- ----------
(1)   A "non-employee director" is a director that (a) is not currently an
      officer of the Company or a parent or subsidiary thereof, or otherwise
      currently employed by the Company or a parent or subsidiary thereof, (b)
      does not receive compensation, either directly or indirectly, from the
      Company or a parent or subsidiary thereof, for services rendered as a
      consultant or in any capacity other than as a director, except for an
      amount that does not exceed the $60,000 threshold for which disclosure
      would be required pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K under the
      Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (c) does not possess an interest in
      any other transaction for which disclosure would be required pursuant to
      Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K, and (d) is not engaged in a business
      relationship for which disclosure would be required pursuant to Item
      404(b) of Regulation S-K.

(2)   An "outside director" is a director that (i) is not a current employee of
      the Company, (ii) is not a former employee of the Company who receives
      compensation for prior services (other than benefits under a tax-qualified
      retirement plan), (iii) has not been an officer of the Company, and (iv)
      does not receive remuneration from the Company, either directly or
      indirectly, in any capacity other than as director.

(3)   Section 162(m) relates to the deductibility of remuneration in excess of
      $1 million paid to a CEO or the other four highest paid executive officers
      of a public company. The payment of "qualified performance-based
      compensation" by a public company that is approved by a committee of
      "outside directors" is exempt from the $1 million limitation.

long as such director has never served as an officer of the Company. Any member
of the Committee who fails to meet all the criteria of an "outside director"
shall refrain from considering or acting upon any matter subject to Section
162(m) of the Code.

The members of the Committee shall be elected by the Board annually, based on a
recommendation by the Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee to serve until
the next annual meeting of the Board or until their successors shall be duly
elected and qualified. Unless the Board elects a Chair, the members of the
Committee may designate a Chair by majority vote of the Committee membership.
The Board may remove a member from the Committee with or without cause. The
Committee's Chair will periodically report the Committee's findings and
conclusions to the Board.

III.  MEETINGS AND OPERATIONS

      The Committee shall meet at least three times annually, or more frequently
as circumstances dictate. In furtherance of the Committee's responsibility to
foster the development of compensatory arrangements that are designed to both
motivate recipients and advance the interests of the Company's shareholders, the
Committee should meet at least annually with the Company's Chief Executive
Officer and its independent compensation consultants. The Committee will be
assisted by the Company's Vice President, Human Resources. The Company's
Secretary or any Assistant Secretary will serve as executive secretary of the
Committee.

      A majority of the Committee members will constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business at any meeting of the Committee. Action of the majority
at any such meeting will be the action of the Committee.

      The Committee shall conduct its operations in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Article 4 of the Company's Code of By-Laws applicable to
the operations of the Board, except to the extent that such procedures are
modified on superseded by the terms of this Charter. The Committee shall have
the authority to adopt such additional procedures for the conduct of its
business as are not inconsistent with those referred to in the preceding
sentence. The Committee shall have no authority to delegate its responsibilities
to any subcommittee.

IV.   RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES

      To fulfill its responsibilities and duties, the Committee shall:

1.    Assist the Company in defining a total management compensation philosophy
      that supports the Company's overall strategy and objectives; attracts and
      retains key executives; links total compensation to financial performance
      and the attainment of short and long term strategic, operational, and
      financial objectives; and provides competitive total compensation
      opportunities at a reasonable cost, while enhancing the ability to fulfill
      the Company's objectives.

                                       -2-

2.    Review and approve annually the corporate goals and objectives relative to
      the compensation of the Company's Chief Executive Officer, evaluate the
      performance of the Company's Chief Executive Officer in the light of those
      goals and objectives, provide development feedback to the Company's Chief
      Executive Officer and set the annual compensation level of the Company's
      Chief Executive Officer based on this evaluation.

3.    Review at least annually the executive succession plans prepared by the
      Company's Chief Executive Officer.

4.    Review and approve annually the corporate goals and objectives relative to
      the compensation of the elected officers of the Company (other than the
      Chief Executive Officer) and, if appropriate, approve the compensation
      arrangements submitted by the Company's Chief Executive Officer for all
      elected officers (other than himself).

5.    Propose the adoption, amendment, and termination by the Board of
      Directors, and shareholders, if required, of stock option plans, stock
      appreciation rights plans, pension and profit sharing plans, stock bonus
      plans, stock purchase plans, bonus plans, deferred compensation plans,
      executive perquisites, employment agreements and other similar programs
      (the "Compensation Plans"). The Committee shall also administer and
      interpret the Compensation Plans, establish performance targets under the
      Company's bonus and incentive plans, exercise oversight responsibility
      over other compensation programs of the Company, and review the structure,
      cost effectiveness, and competitive position of the Company's compensation
      programs. All incentive compensation plans will link executive
      compensation directly and objectively to measure financial and
      non-financial goals set in advance by the Committee.

6.    Grant rights, participation and interests in Compensation Plans to
      eligible participants and pre-approve all transactions in the Company's
      securities, by and between the Company and any director and executive
      officer of the Company, for which exemptive treatment from Section 16(b)
      of the Exchange Act is sought.

7.    Prepare the report on the Company's compensation policies for executives
      for inclusion in the Company's proxy statement for use in connection with
      the solicitation of proxies for each annual meeting of shareholders
      ("Proxy Statement") in accordance with applicable rules and regulations.

8.    Ensure that all aspects of executive compensation are clearly and
      comprehensively disclosed in each Proxy Statement.

9.    Review and approve such other compensation matters as the Board or the
      Chief Executive Officer of the Company wishes to have the Committee
      approve.

10.   Select, monitor and revise, as appropriate, the universe of companies
      against which the Company is compared in the stock performance chart set
      forth in each annual proxy statement.

11.   Ensure the Company's total executive compensation program and practices
      are designed with full consideration of all tax, accounting, legal and
      regulatory requirements.

                                       -3-

12.   Keep abreast of current trends, developments, and emerging issues in
      executive compensation outside of the Company.

13.   Perform such additional functions and have such additional powers as may
      from time to time be expressly delegated to the Committee by the Board.

14.   Have sole authority to select and retain independent compensation
      consultants, considering effectiveness, responsiveness and other relevant
      factors, and approve the retention terms, fees and other compensation to
      be paid to the independent compensation consultants; provided that the
      foregoing grant of sole authority shall not prevent the Board's
      Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee from selecting and retaining
      independent compensation consultants in carrying out its responsibilities
      with respect to assessment of the compensation of the members of the Board
      of Directors.

15.   Review the performance of the independent compensation consultants and
      approve any proposed discharge of the independent compensation consultants
      when circumstances warrant.

16.   Review this Charter and assess the performance of this Committee and its
      members at least annually and recommend updates and changes to the Board
      as conditions warrant.

                                      -4-

</EX-99.4>

<EX-99.7>
 13
 c10438exv99w7.txt
 POSITION SPECIFICATION FOR MEMBER OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS

EXHIBIT 99.7

                      POSITION SPECIFICATION FOR MEMBER OF
                              BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
                          HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC.
                  (APPROVED AT SEPTEMBER 14 2006 BOARD MEETING)

POSITION OVERVIEW:                 Directors are responsible for the overall
                                   supervision of the management of the affairs
                                   of the corporation in accordance with the
                                   requirements of Indiana and other applicable
                                   law.

CRITERIA FOR SELECTION:            A candidate for director of the corporation
                                   should exhibit the following characteristics
                                   and should not ever (i) have been the subject
                                   of a Securities and Exchange Commission
                                   enforcement action in which he or she
                                   consented to the entry of injunctive relief,
                                   a cease and desist order, or a suspension or
                                   other limitation on the ability to serve as a
                                   corporate officer or supervisor, (ii) had any
                                   license suspended or revoked due to
                                   misconduct of any type or (iii) violated any
                                   fiduciary duty to the Company or its Code of
                                   Ethical Business Conduct.:

                                   1.   Reputation for industry, integrity,
                                        honesty, candor, fairness and
                                        discretion;

                                   2.   Acknowledged expert in his or her chosen
                                        field(s) of endeavor, which area of
                                        expertise should have some relevance to
                                        the corporation's businesses or
                                        operations, such as accounting and
                                        finance, product and technology
                                        development, healthcare, death care or
                                        other low growth industry,
                                        manufacturing, services businesses,
                                        sales and market development,
                                        international operations, international
                                        governance, mergers and acquisitions
                                        related business development, strategic
                                        oversight, government relations,
                                        investor relations, executive leadership
                                        development, public company governance,
                                        and executive compensation design and
                                        processes;

                                   3.   Knowledgeable, and or willing and able
                                        to become so quickly, in the critical
                                        aspects of the corporation's businesses
                                        and operations in order to make
                                        comprehensive and decisive decisions;

1

4.   New directors, excluding existing
                                        directors who are reelected should meet
                                        the NYSE independence standards then in
                                        effect; and

                                   5.   Experienced and skillful in serving as a
                                        competent overseer of, and trusted
                                        advisor to, senior management of a
                                        substantial publicly held corporation.

RESPONSIBILITIES:                  Responsibilities of directors include
                                   discharging the following tasks, with the
                                   objective of creating short and long term
                                   value for shareholders. Additionally,
                                   directors must be willing to commit
                                   substantial amounts of time to learning the
                                   Company and its risks and to participate
                                   actively on the Board. They must be good
                                   listeners, willing to ask probing questions,
                                   disagree with management if necessary, speak
                                   their mind and exercise independent judgment
                                   on behalf of all shareholders

                                   1.   Proceedings of the Board and its
                                        committees;

                                   2.   Oversight responsibility for ensuring
                                        that the corporation is effectively
                                        managed in the interests of all
                                        shareholders;

                                   3.   Selecting, monitoring, evaluating,
                                        compensating, and-if necessary,
                                        replacing the President and Chief
                                        Executive Officer and other senior
                                        executives, and ensuring adequate
                                        management succession;

                                   4.   Reviewing and analyzing, in order to
                                        approve, policies designed to ensure
                                        that the corporation and its employees
                                        act ethically, and compliance with
                                        applicable laws and regulations,
                                        auditing and accounting principles, and
                                        the corporation's own governing
                                        documents;

                                   5.   Selecting director nominees,
                                        establishment of the structure and
                                        composition of the Board and its
                                        committees, and determination of the
                                        functions of such committees;

2
 
                                   6.   Reviewing and analyzing, in order to
                                        approve, management's strategic and
                                        business plans, including developing a
                                        depth of knowledge of the businesses
                                        being served, understanding and
                                        questioning the assumptions upon which
                                        such plans are based, and reaching a
                                        fully informed and independent judgment
                                        as to the probability that the plans can
                                        be realized; although directors may rely
                                        on management and other professional
                                        advisors for the integrity of the
                                        information they receive, it is
                                        incumbent on them to satisfy themselves
                                        that they are fully informed as to all
                                        factors they consider relevant;

                                   7.   Reviewing and analyzing, in order to
                                        approve, the corporation's financial
                                        objectives, plans, and actions,
                                        including significant capital
                                        allocations and expenditures;

                                   8.   Reviewing and analyzing, in order to
                                        approve, material transactions not in
                                        the ordinary course of business;

                                   9.   Monitoring corporate performance against
                                        the strategic and business plans,
                                        including overseeing the operating
                                        results on a regular basis to evaluate
                                        whether the businesses are being
                                        properly managed;

                                   10.  Reviewing, analyzing, in order to
                                        approve, and periodically revising, as
                                        appropriate, the corporation's mission
                                        statement and the charters of the
                                        Board's various committees; and

                                   11.  Performing such other functions as are
                                        prescribed by law, or assigned to the
                                        Board in the corporation's governing
                                        documents.

PERFORMANCE METRICS:               Performance meets expectations when a
                                   director discharges the foregoing
                                   responsibilities with dedication, candor,
                                   fairness, integrity, honesty and discretion.

3

</EX-99.7>

