<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061121_10-K_edgar_data_276720_0001104659-06-076952_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1630041</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>244313</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5597</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>913067</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>32</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-076952.hdr.sgml : 20061121
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061121153048
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-076952
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060831
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061121
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061121

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PURE CYCLE CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000276720
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	WATER SUPPLY [4941]
		IRS NUMBER:				840705083
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0831

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-08814
		FILM NUMBER:		061232790

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8451 DELAWARE STREET
		CITY:			THORNTON
		STATE:			CO
		ZIP:			80260
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3032923456

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8451 DELAWARE STREET
		CITY:			THORNTON
		STATE:			CO
		ZIP:			80260

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Pr0A6xBJ+XSXR9gmJC/eCEFyAq+rOUwMMgj4pCbnwzuP0iCsPSDRC96Aa6T0Q9lH
 H9ZKnyN9DQPM/aLqKKQ38g==

 0001104659-06-076952.txt : 20061121

10-K
 1
 a06-23975_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington,
D.C. 20549   

Form 10-K   

   x                                 ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 

For the
fiscal year ended August 31, 2006   

   o                                      TRANSITION REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

Commission
File Number  0-8814   

   PURE CYCLE CORPORATION   

  (Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter)  

Registrant s
telephone number, including area code:  (303) 292-3456   

  Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(b) of the Act:  

Common Stock 1/3 of $.01 par value  

The
  NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC   

Title of Class  

Name of each
  exchange on which registered  

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE   

  Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   Yes   o  No  x  

  Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes   o  No  x  

  Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes   x  No  o  

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers in response to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (Section
229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.     o  

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer.
See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act (Check one):  

Large accelerated filer  o  

Accelerated
  filer   x  

Non-accelerate
  filer   o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a shell company (as defied in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).      Yes   o  No  x  

  The approximate aggregate market value of the
voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates on February 28,
2006, the last business day of the registrants most recently completed second
fiscal quarter was:     $98,254,000  

  Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding,
as of October 31, 2006:                                         18,348,834  

  Documents incorporated by
reference:  Portions of the Registrant s
definitive Proxy Statement for the Registrant s 2007 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders are incorporated by reference under Part III of this annual report
on form 10K.  

Table of Contents    

Item  

Part I    

1.   

Business   

1A.   

Risk Factors   

1B.   

Unresolved Staff
  Comments   

2.   

Properties   

3.   

Legal Proceedings   

4.   

Submission of
  Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

Part II    

5.   

Market for
  Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
  of Equity Securities   

6.   

Selected Financial
  Data   

7.   

Management s
  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation   

7A.   

Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

8.   

Financial Statements
  and Supplementary Data   

9.   

Changes in and
  Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

9A.   

Controls and
  Procedures   

9B.   

Other Information   

Part III    

10.  

Directors and Executive
  Officers of the Registrant  

11.  

Executive Compensation  

12.  

Security Ownership of
  Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

13.  

Certain Relationships
  and Related Transactions  

14.  

Principal Accounting
  Fees and Services  

Part IV    

15.   

Exhibits,
  Financial Statement Schedules   

Signatures   

2  

SAFE HARBOR  STATEMENT
UNDER THE UNITED STATES PRIVATE   

   SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995   

  Statements that
are not historical facts contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are
forward looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties that could cause
actual results to differ from projected results. The words  anticipate,   believe, 
 estimate,   expect,   plan,   intend  and similar expressions, as they relate
to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements
reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to
certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. We cannot assure you that any of
our expectations will be realized. Factors that may cause actual results to
differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements
include, without limitation, the timing of development of the areas where we
may sell our water, including uncertainties related to the development of
projects the Company currently has under contract, the market price of water,
changes in applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, uncertainties in
the estimation of water available under decrees, costs of delivery of water and
treatment of wastewater, uncertainties in the estimation of costs of construction
projects, the strength and financial resources of our competitors, our ability
to find and retain skilled personnel, climatic and weather conditions, labor
relations, availability and cost of material and equipment, delays in
anticipated permit and construction dates, environmental risks, the results of
financing efforts and the ability to meet capital requirements, and general
economic conditions.  

   PART I     

   Item 1.                     Business      

   Summary
of our business   

  Pure Cycle Corporation is
an investor owned water and wastewater service provider engaged in the design,
construction, operation and maintenance of water and wastewater systems. We
incorporated in 1976 in the State of Delaware. Our theory is that water is a
precious commodity that is often undervalued and therefore used inefficiently.
We primarily operate in the Denver, Colorado metropolitan area and have assets
located in the Denver area, in Southeastern Colorado in the Arkansas River, and
on the western slope of Colorado. Our business practices are centered on efficient
and environmentally responsible water management programs to ensure we have
water to meet the long-term needs of our customers. Utilizing our water assets,
we withdraw, treat, store and deliver water to our customers. We then collect
wastewater from our customers which is treated and reused through dual
distribution systems. A dual distribution system is one in which domestic water
demands and irrigation water demands are provided through separate independent
infrastructure. Our dual distribution systems promote efficient water resource
management and reduce the amount of water that is  wasted  by traditional water
systems which enable us to maximize the use of our valuable water supplies and
allow us the ability to provide long-term water solutions on a regional basis.  

  The Denver metropolitan
region continues to experience tremendous growth, but has a limited
availability of new water supplies to sustain that growth. Colorado
municipalities have strong incentives to attract commercial development to
their areas because a large portion of their revenues are derived through sales
tax receipts. Cities and municipalities historically have used water
availability as a means to attract development. As water has become scarce,
cities and municipalities have begun requiring property developers to
demonstrate that they have sufficient water supplies for their proposed
projects before the cities and municipalities will consider rezoning or
annexation applications. With our water assets located in the Denver area and
with the addition of our recently acquired Arkansas River water (described
below), we believe we are well positioned to market and sell our water and
wastewater services to municipalities, developers and homebuilders seeking to
develop new communities both within the Lowry Range Property (which is
described below) as well as in other areas in and around the growing
Denver and Colorado Springs metropolitan regions. The addition of the Arkansas
River water greatly enhances our ability to provide a more efficient and
balanced water portfolio to developers and our customers as they continue to
demand more surface water to meet growing water supply demands.  

  Our water marketing
activities target our water and wastewater services to developers and
homebuilders developing new areas along the Front Range, which includes the
greater Denver and Colorado Springs metropolitan areas. Our groundwater
supplies are largely undeveloped and are located in the southeast portion of
the greater Denver area in Arapahoe County, one of the fastest growing regions
of the Denver metropolitan area. The majority of our surface  

3     

water is located in the
Arkansas River Valley, and we are proposing to use it in our target service
market and throughout the Front Range of Colorado. We work with area developers
to investigate water supply constraints, water and wastewater utility issues,
market demand, transportation concerns, employment centers and other issues in
order to identify suitable areas for development. Construction of water and wastewater
systems and the providing of water and wastewater services are subject to
individual water and wastewater service agreements. We negotiate individual
agreements with developers and/or homebuilders to provide the design,
construction and operation of water and wastewater systems and services. Our
service contracts outline our obligations to design, construct and operate
certain facilities necessary to develop and treat water and treat and reuse
wastewater. These service agreements include the timing of installation of the
facilities, required capacities of the systems, and locations for the services
to be provided. Service agreements address all aspects of the development of
the water and wastewater systems, which are more specifically discussed below
but include: (i) the purchase of water and wastewater taps in exchange for
our obligation to construct the  Wholesale Facilities;  (ii) the
establishment of payment terms, timing and location of  Special Facilities  (if
any); and (iii) specific terms related to our provision of ongoing water
and wastewater services.  

  We also continue to
identify potential users of our Paradise Water Supply on the western slope of
Colorado. These potential users include commercial, residential and
agricultural customers. Due to the nature of the Paradise water rights, the
significant development costs of water assets along the western slope, and
agreements with other western slope water interests, our use of the Paradise
Water Supply is limited to opportunities along the western slope. We cannot
assure you that we will ever be able to make use of this asset or sell the
water profitably. See discussion of impairment analysis in the  Critical Accounting Policies  section below.  

   Description
of Our Water Assets and Related Service Agreements   

  Our water assets are comprised of the following annual
entitlements which are described in greater detail below:  

                        On
August 31, 2006, we closed the Asset Purchase Agreement (the  Arkansas
River Agreement ) with High Plains A M, LLC ( HP A M ) to
acquire the following assets from HP A M: (i) approximately
60,000 acre-feet of senior 1883 water rights in the Arkansas River and its
tributaries represented by over 21,600 shares of the Fort Lyon Canal Company ( FLCC 
(ii) approximately 17,500 acres of real property; and (iii) certain
contract rights, tangible personal property, mineral rights, and other water
interests associated with the real property. The Arkansas River water
acquisition was a strategic asset acquisition for us which significantly
increased our water portfolio, added valuable senior surface water to our water
supplies which will allow us to expand our service capabilities to include
other areas along the Front Range such as the second largest metropolitan area
in Colorado, Colorado Springs, and increases our service capabilities by 125%
to 180,000 single family units; 

                        We
own approximately 11,650 acre-feet of water located at the Lowry Range
Property, which we can  Export  from the Lowry Range Property to supply water
to nearby communities and developers in need of additional water supplies (this
water asset is referred to as our  Export Water  

                        We
have the exclusive rights to use, through 2081, approximately 17,620 acre-feet
of water located at the Lowry Range Property. This water is required to be used
specifically on the Lowry Range Property (collectively we refer to the 17,620
acre-feet of water designated for use on the Lowry Range Property and the
11,650 acre-feet of Export Water as our  Rangeview Water Supply  

                        We own, subject
to receipt of a water rights deed, approximately 350 acre-feet of
groundwater pursuant to an Agreement for Water Service (the  County Agreement ) with
Arapahoe County (the  County ), which will be added to our overall Denver
metropolitan water supply portfolio; 

                        We
own approximately 89 acre-feet of water located beneath Sky Ranch together with
the right to purchase an additional 671 acre-feet of water (for a total of 760
acre-feet), which will be used to provide water service to the initial 1,500
taps purchased at Sky Ranch; and 

                        We
own conditional water rights in western Colorado that entitle us to build a
70,000 acre-foot reservoir to store tributary water on the Colorado River; a
right-of-way permit from the U.S. Bureau of Land Management for property at the
dam and reservoir site; and four tributary water wells with a theoretical
capacity to produce approximately 56,000 acre-feet of water annually
(collectively known as the  Paradise Water Supply ). 

4     

Arkansas
River Water   

  Pursuant to the Arkansas River Agreement dated May 10, 2006, on
August 31, 2006, we acquired approximately 60,000 acre-feet of
Arkansas River water. These water rights are represented by over 21,600 shares
of the FLCC. The FLCC is a non-profit mutual ditch company established in the
1800 s that operates and maintains the 110 mile Fort Lyon Canal. The canal
starts outside of La Junta, Colorado and ends outside of Lamar, Colorado. The
shares we acquired represent an ownership interest of water and other assets we
own in the Fort Lyon Canal. Along with these water rights, we also acquired
approximately 17,500 acres of real property located in Bent, Otero and Prowers
counties Colorado, and certain contract rights, tangible personal property,
mineral rights, and other water interests associated with the real
property.  The real and personal property
and other non-water assets were acquired because the water we intend to
ultimately develop for municipal purposes is based on the current and
historical  consumptive use  of such water on farm land. By owning the land and
having the water continued to be used for agricultural purposes, we ensure that
there is continued beneficial use of the water together with continued
operation and maintenance of the Fort Lyon Canal.  

  Effective with the closing, as consideration for the assets we
acquired, we issued HP A M 3,000,000 shares of unregistered Pure Cycle
common stock and granted HP A M a  Tap Participation Fee.  The Tap
Participation Fee grants HP A M the right to receive ten percent
(10%) of the gross proceeds from the sale of the next 40,000 water taps
(the 40,000 figure was reduced to 39,470 at the August 31, 2006
closing date because HP A M sold certain assets and properties not related
to the FLCC shares which were subject to the Arkansas River Agreement and were
available for credits against the Tap Participation Fee). The Tap Participation
Fee is more fully described in Note 3 to the accompanying financial
statements.  

  The real property is comprised of approximately 80 separate real estate
properties, which are subject to HP A M operating lease agreements with HP
A M permitting the lessees to farm the land, in return for defined lease
payments, and use the water rights for irrigation purposes on the properties.
Certain of the properties are subject to outstanding promissory notes which are
secured by deeds of trust on the properties. We did not assume these promissory
notes and are not responsible for making any of the required payments. This
responsibility remained with HP A M. However, in the event of default by HP
A M, because we may choose to pay HP A M s obligations in order to
protect our water interests, we have recorded the principal and unpaid interest
balance of the promissory notes as a liability on our balance sheet. While we
have not concluded our evaluation of the final accounting treatment for the HP
A M promissory notes, the accounting may include a non-cash interest
expense charge and a related contribution to additional paid in capital of
approximately $1.0 million per year, see Note 3 in the accompanying
financial statements for more information. In connection with these promissory
notes, as collateral on HP A M s obligation to pay the promissory notes, we
have entered into a pledge agreement with HP A M whereby HP A M placed
1.5 million shares of our common stock obtained pursuant to the Arkansas River
Agreement in escrow. In the event of default, we could foreclose on this stock
and the payments required under the Tap Participation Fee could be reduced. Based
on this, we also recorded a receivable as a contra-equity item and will reduce
both the liability and the contra-equity receivable balances as HP A M
makes their required payments on the promissory notes.  

  The assets we acquired include various water delivery fixtures located
on the properties which will be depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
Based on our estimated fair values, this could approximate $216,000 per year,
which will likely change when we complete our internal studies of the fair value
of the Acquired Assets. Additionally, we will pay water assessment charges of
approximately $265,000 annually. This amount is based on historical information
obtained from HP A M.  

  In addition to the Arkansas River Agreement and the pledge agreement with
HP A M noted above, we also signed various other agreements with HP
A M, including:  

                        A
pledge agreement, whereby the Company pledged to HP A M a defined number of
FLCC shares acquired pursuant to the Arkansas River Agreement which will be
released as the consideration (the value of the stock and the Tap Participation
Fees paid) exceeds certain defined amounts; 

                        A
property management agreement with HP A M whereby HP A M will manage
the real estate leases in exchange for all the rental income from the assumed
leases for a period of five years, which can be extended under defined
circumstances; 

                        We
granted HP A M one demand right to register 750,000 shares of Pure Cycle
common stock and piggyback rights to register an additional 750,000 shares of
Pure Cycle common stock; and 

                        Our
President agreed to vote shares of Pure Cycle common stock owned by him for HP
A M s designated board member. 

5     

The acquisition of
this large portfolio of senior water rights gives us a substantial amount of
senior surface water which compliments our existing portfolio of Denver based
surface and groundwater assets and significantly enhances our service
capabilities and water supplies to provide long-term regional water solutions
for the Colorado Front Range market. The graph below depicts the balance of our
fully developed water portfolio following this acquisition.  

This acquisition allows
us to more effectively market our water and wastewater services to customers in
the Denver metropolitan market as well as other markets such as the Colorado
Springs region. It also expands our potential customer base from approximately
80,000 Single Family Equivalent units ( SFE ) to over 180,000 SFE units.
An SFE is defined in our Rules and Regulations as the amount of water required
each year by a family of four persons living in a single family house on a
standard sized lot, which is equivalent to approximately 0.4 acre-feet of water
per year.  

  The timing of the
development of the Arkansas River water will depend on the timing of
connections added to our existing water and wastewater systems along the Front
Range. We will fund the development of the Arkansas River water, much like the
other water we own, by using proceeds generated from the sale of taps or
connection fees associated with new customers added to our system. In addition
to adding new connection to our systems, this additional water may present
other market opportunities for us to assist existing water providers to solve
their long-term water supply needs for existing and new connections. Along the
Front Range, there are over 70 separate independent water providers in various
need of replacement and new water supplies, which may present an opportunity
for us to assist these water providers in meeting their existing and future
water needs.  

  We plan to work with the
FLCC and other interested parties in the Arkansas River Valley to mitigate any
impact to the community and to make investments and decisions on farming
operations which benefit our water as well as the traditional water users. If
any of our real property is converted to non-irrigated uses, we anticipate that
we will be required to re-vegetate the land to its natural state.  

   The
Rangeview Water Supply and Related Agreements   

   Rangeview
Agreements   

  We acquired the Rangeview Water Supply when
(i) on April 4, 1996, the State of Colorado Board of Land Commissioners
(the  Land Board ) and the Rangeview Metropolitan District (the  District ),
a quasi-municipal political subdivision of the State of Colorado, entered into
the Amended and Restated Lease Agreement (the  Lease ), (ii) on
April 11, 1996, we entered into the Agreement for Sale of Export Water
with the District and (iii) on April 11, 1996 we entered into the
Service Agreement with the District for the provision of water service to the
Lowry Range Property (collectively these agreements are referred to as the  Rangeview
Water Agreements ). The Rangeview Water Agreements provide that we will design,
construct, operate and maintain the District s water system to provide water
service to the District s customers on the Lowry Range Property. Pursuant to
the Rangeview Water Agreements, approximately 17,620 acre-feet of water per
year located on the Lowry Range Property is dedicated for use specifically on
the Lowry Range Property. In exchange for providing water service to customers  

6     

within the District s service area, we will receive
95% of all amounts received by the District relating to water services after
deducting required royalties to the Land Board, which initially totals approximately
12% of gross revenues received from water sales. The District s service area is
located in Arapahoe County and is bordered by the City of Aurora. A number of
residential housing developments are currently under construction directly
adjacent to the District s service area.  

  We also design, finance,
construct, operate and maintain the District s wastewater system to provide
wastewater service to customers within the District s  service area. In exchange for providing
wastewater service within the District s service area, we receive 100% of the
District s wastewater tap fees, and 90% of the District s monthly wastewater
fees as well as the rights to sell the reclaimed water.  

   Lowry Range
Property Water and Export Water    

  The Lowry Range Property
encompasses approximately 26,000 acres, of which approximately 24,500 acres are
within our exclusive service area. The Lowry Range Property is located in
unincorporated Arapahoe County approximately 15 miles southeast of Denver and
12 miles south of the Denver International Airport. The Land Board acquired
this property in the 1960 s and has stated that the Lowry Range Property is one
of the most valuable pieces of property in its nearly 2.5 million acre
portfolio. The Land Board has explored a number of development models for the
property including: development similar to that which is ongoing adjacent to
the property s western borders; a new planned community; and a compact
development model with high density  village  centers surrounded by large
expanses of open space. In October 2005, the Land Board announced that it is
seeking a partner to  assist with the entitlement, resource planning and
development  of the Lowry Range Property. To do this, the Land Board issued two
requests for proposals ( RFPs ), one for the development of an
initial 3,800 acres of the Lowry Range Property and a second for the
conservation of a majority of the remaining 22,000 acres of property. Also in
October 2005, the Land Board adopted a three-part vision for the overall use of
the property, consisting of (i) development of water resources,
(ii) open space and conservation plans, and (iii)  smart growth  or
contained development of the property. The Land Board conducted open interviews
in November 2006 with the four parties that provided proposals in April 2006.
We do not have any guidance from the Land Board relating to the timing of
development on the Lowry Range Property. Additional water sales will only occur
after development has commenced.  

  The Rangeview Water
Supply is a combination of tributary surface water, nontributary groundwater
rights, and storage rights associated with the Lowry Range Property. We own the
rights to use 11,650 acre-feet of non-tributary groundwater that can be
exported off the Lowry Range Property to serve area users. We also have the
exclusive rights to use an additional 17,620 acre-feet of tributary surface
water and nontributary groundwater to serve customers on the Lowry Range
Property. The Export Water we own, together with water that is owned by the
Land Board that we have contracted to utilize under our service agreements,
totals over 29,270 acre-feet of water per year. Based on independent
engineering estimates, the 17,620 acre-feet of water designated for use on the
Lowry Range Property is capable of providing water service to approximately
46,500 SFE units, and the 11,650 acre-feet of Export Water we own can serve
approximately 33,600 SFE units throughout the Denver metropolitan region,
for a combined total service capacity of approximately 80,100 SFE units.  

  A portion of the proceeds from the sale of Export Water are subject to the Comprehensive Amendment Agreement No. 1 (the  CAA ), which is one of the agreements we used to purchase our Export Water and is more fully described in   Item 6   Critical Accounting Policies   Accounting for CAA Payments   and   Note 4 of the accompanying financial statements.  

  On the Lowry Range
Property, we operate both the water and the wastewater systems during our
contract period and the District owns both systems. However, after 2081
ownership of the water system infrastructure servicing customers on the Lowry
Range Property reverts to the Land Board, with the District retaining ownership
of the wastewater infrastructure. Off the Lowry Range property, we will use our
Export Water to provide water and wastewater services to our customers, along
with the Arkansas River water described above, and we will own these
facilities. We plan to contract with third parties for the construction of
these facilities.  

7     

Arapahoe
County Fairgrounds Agreement for Water Service   

  Effective August 3,
2005, we entered into the County Agreement to design, construct, operate and
maintain a water system for, and provide water services to, the new Arapahoe
County Fairgrounds (the  Fairgrounds ). The County Agreement included the
following components: (i) the County purchased water taps for 38.5
SFEs for approximately $567,500 (which was comprised of $514,600 in cash and 27
acre-feet of water rights valued at approximately $52,900), or $14,740 per tap;
(ii) we agreed to design and build certain Special Facilities (defined
below) required to provide water service to the Fairgrounds, for which the
County will pay us approximately $1.25 million (which can be lowered by the
value of the additional water rights we agreed to acquire explained in (iii)),
and (iii) we agreed to buy approximately 336 additional acre-feet of
groundwater from the County valued at approximately $240,000. As of
August 31, 2006, we have not received the water rights deed for these 336
acre-feet of groundwater, and therefore, we will not capitalize the cost of
this water until the satisfactory transfer of this deed.  

  We expect to service the
Fairgrounds using our Export Water. Because of this, the tap fees we received
generated royalty payments to the Land Board totaling approximately $34,500,
which is 10% of the net revenues we received from the sale of Export Water taps
and was paid to the Land Board in September 2005. The agreement with the Land
Board requires royalty payments on Export Water sales based on the net revenues
we receive. These net revenues are defined as proceeds from the sale of Export
Water less direct and indirect costs, including reasonable overhead charges,
associated with the withdrawal, treatment and delivery of Export Water. In
addition, the tap fees, net of the Land Board royalty, were subject to the CAA.
This resulted in us distributing approximately $533,000 of the tap fees
received from the County to the escrow agent in September 2005. Based on the
2004 CAA acquisitions we made, we received back $373,100, or 70% of this
distribution. The tap fees we retained were used to construct the Wholesale
Facilities required to provide water service to the Fairgrounds.  

  Pursuant to the County
Agreement, payment for the design and construction of the Special Facilities
required an initial payment of $397,000 (which we received in August
2005) and monthly payments of $9,555 for 10 years (this includes interest
at 6% per annum). Initially these monthly payments were $6,850, but because we
have not received the deed to the water rights acquired pursuant to the County
Agreement, the value of the water rights have not been deducted from the
required payments and therefore the required monthly payment received by us is
higher. We began accruing interest upon acceptance of the construction of the
Special Facilities in April 2006 and the first payment was due in September
2006, which was received in October 2006. Once we receive the water rights deed
for the remaining 336 acre-feet of acquired ground water, we will issue
the County a credit against the balance owed of approximately $240,000
(depending on the ultimate amount of groundwater adjudicated to us) which
will lower the required monthly payments.  

  The construction of the
Special and Wholesale facilities were completed in our fiscal 2006, and we
began providing water service to the Fairgrounds at the opening of the 100  th  Annual Arapahoe County fair on July 21, 2006.
We expect the Fairgrounds to use approximately 1.5 million gallons of water
annually. 

   Sky Ranch
Water Supply and Water Service Agreements   

  On October 31, 2003,
and May 14, 2004, we entered into two Water Service Agreements (collectively
the  Sky Ranch Agreements ) with the developer of approximately 950 acres
of property located 4 miles north of the Lowry Range Property along Interstate
70 in Colorado, known as Sky Ranch. Under the Sky Ranch Agreements, once the
project commences, we will provide water service to the homes and other
buildings that are expected to be built at Sky Ranch, which could be as high as
4,850 SFEs.  

  As of the date of this
filing, we have not received any payments for tap purchases from the developer,
but we continue to discuss the timing of tap purchases and the expected start
date of the project with the developer. The developer has informed us that it
is engineering the final design of the project and is marketing lots to several
national home builders with operations in the Denver area. Based on these
discussions, during our fiscal 2006 we began the design and engineering of the
required water facilities. However, until we receive the first tap fees from
Sky Ranch, we will not initiate construction of any of these facilities.  

  As part of the Sky Ranch
Agreements, the developer will dedicate approximately 537 acre-feet of water to
us in exchange for a $3,400 per tap credit for the first 767 water taps
purchased. Additionally, pursuant to the Sky Ranch  

8     

Agreements, the developer
is required to pay us $3.41 million for the construction of certain Special
Facilities required to extend service to Sky Ranch. As of August 31, 2006,
none of this water has been dedicated to us because Sky Ranch has not yet
purchased any water taps.  

  We also entered into an
agreement with Sky Ranch to acquire the 223 acre-feet of Denver Aquifer
groundwater located at Sky Ranch over five years. As of the date of this
filing, we have acquired 40% of this water, or 89.2 acre-feet for payments
totaling $100,000. Subsequent to our fiscal year ended August 31, 2006 we
remitted the third $50,000 payment to Sky Ranch to acquire the next 44.6
acre-feet of water. As of the date of this filing, we had not received the
water rights deed for this water and therefore have not recognized the next
44.6 acre-feet of water purchased in our balance sheet. We have been discussing
the status of this year s water purchase with the developer of Sky Ranch but do
not currently have an estimated time for completion of this year s purchase. We
anticipate purchasing the remaining 89.2 acre-feet of Denver aquifer
groundwater from Sky Ranch over the next two years which will require payments
totaling $100,000.  

  By combining the 537
acre-feet of water to be purchased from the developer of Sky Ranch together
with the 89.2 acre-feet of water already purchased, and the 133.8 acre-feet
anticipated to be purchased under the agreement to purchase Denver Aquifer
groundwater, we will have acquired a total of 760 acre-feet of water from Sky
Ranch, which we plan to use to provide water service to the first 1,500 SFEs at
Sky Ranch.  

  Pursuant to the Sky Ranch
Agreements, Sky Ranch is required to make annual option payments of $50,000 and
$10,400 for the rights to use our Export Water at Sky Ranch upon certain
events. As of the date of this filing we have not received either of this year s
option payments from Sky Ranch. Both amounts are past due, and we are currently
discussing the status of these payments with the developer of Sky Ranch.  

   Paradise
Water Supply   

  In 1987 we acquired the conditional rights to build a
70,000 acre-foot reservoir to store tributary water on the Colorado River, a
right-of-way permit from the U.S. Bureau of Land Management for property at the
dam and reservoir site, and four unrelated tributary water wells, also along
the western slope, with a theoretical capacity to produce approximately 56,000
acre-feet of water annually. Due to strict regulatory requirements for
constructing an on-channel reservoir, completing this conditional storage right
at its decreed location will be difficult. Due to the nature of the Paradise
Water rights and agreements with other western slope water interests, our use
of the Paradise Water Supply is limited to opportunities along the western
slope. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will ever be able to make
use of this asset or sell the water profitably. However, we have begun
reviewing alternative off-channel sites for a reservoir, and we have begun
exploring alternative uses for these water rights such as agricultural,
municipal and industrial uses along the western slope of Colorado.  

  Every six years our
Paradise Water Supply is subject to a Finding of Reasonable Diligence review by
the water court and the State Engineer to determine if we are diligently
pursuing the development of the water rights. During fiscal 2005 the water
court began the latest review. As described in our Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2006, two objectors to
our Paradise Water rights have requested meetings with us and our water rights
counsel to discuss our development efforts over the past six years and our
plans for the Paradise Water in the future. In May 2006 and September 2006, we
met with the objectors and provided the objectors additional information
regarding the development efforts we have taken over the past six years and our
proposed use of our Paradise Water Supply. The objectors in our Paradise
diligence review have expressed concerns that we have not diligently pursued
the development of this water and are seeking additional assurances that we
intend to develop this water in the future. We are working with the objectors
on specific milestones for development of this water in the future in exchange
for the withdrawal of their opposition to our diligence review. While we are
seeking to work cooperatively with our current objectors, we also intend to
vigorously defend our Paradise Water Supply throughout this review process.
However, no assurances can be provided that any agreement will be reached with
the objectors or that we will be granted a ruling of reasonable diligence in
the current review process. If we do not receive a finding of due diligence we
will lose our conditional water rights.  

9     

Revenues   

  We generate revenues predominately from three sources:
(i) water and wastewater tap fees, (ii) construction fees, and
(iii) monthly service fees. We negotiate the payment terms for tap fees,
construction fees, and other water and wastewater service fees with each
developer or builder before we commit to providing service and before
construction of the project begins.  

   Water and
Wastewater Tap Fees   

  Tap fees are typically paid by the developer in
advance of any construction activities. Tap fees are designed to (i) fund
construction of the  Wholesale Facilities  and (ii) defray the acquisition
costs of obtaining water rights. Wholesale Facilities are facilities we design,
construct, operate, maintain and repair. Wholesale Facilities serve our entire
service area or major regions or portions thereof. Wells, treatment plants, pumping
stations, tanks, reservoirs, transmission pipelines, and major sewage lift
stations are typical examples of Wholesale Facilities. We own the Wholesale
Facilities we construct off the Lowry Range Property. The District owns the
Wholesale Facilities constructed on the Lowry Range Property.  

  Pursuant to our Rangeview Water Agreements with the District and the
Land Board, pricing for water tap fees (as well as water usage charges
described further below) is controlled through a market-driven pricing
mechanism in which our rates and charges may not exceed the average of similar
rates and charges of three nearby communities (referred to as the  rate-based
districts ). Due to increases in tap fees at the rate-based districts,
effective July 1, 2006, water tap fees increased to $16,840 per tap, which is
an increase of 14.2% over the prior year. Wastewater tap fees remained
unchanged at $4,883. Table 1 provides a summary of our water tap fees over the
past several years:  

Developers owning rights
to either surface water or groundwater underlying their properties can receive
a credit against a portion of their water tap fees if they sell their water to
us.  

   Construction
Fees   

  The development of water
and wastewater systems may require the construction of facilities to extend
services to an individual development, which facilities likely would not be
used by other customers. These facilities are commonly referred to as  Special
Facilities . Special Facilities can include items such as infrastructure
required during the construction of the permanent water and wastewater systems,
transmission pipelines to transfer water from one location to another,
temporary storage facilities, etc. Generally we are not responsible for the
design and construction of the Special Facilities - this is the developer s
responsibility - but we are typically responsible for the operation and
maintenance of these Special Facilities. We will accept responsibility for the
design and construction of the Special Facilities, if the developer provides
funding for the facilities. We will then budget, plan and manage the
construction of the Special Facilities. If the developer constructs the Special
Facilities, they must be constructed to our design standards and then the
developer is required to dedicate those to us at no charge. If we construct the
Special Facilities, we capitalize the construction costs, and upon completion,
we own the Special Facilities.  

  If we agree to build the
Special Facilities, the funding received from the developer is deferred until
construction is completed and the assets are placed into operation. At that
time, the funding from the developer is recorded as income over the estimated
service period, which is the estimated useful life of the assets constructed
with those funds. The depreciation charges for the Special Facilities are
recorded as costs of revenue over the estimated useful life of the assets.  

  Developers are usually
responsible for the design and construction of  Retail Facilities  - the water
distribution system that transports the water throughout the subdivision or
community. Retail Facilities are constructed pursuant to our design standards
and are inspected by our engineers prior to completion. Once we certify that
the Retail  

10     

Facilities have been
constructed in accordance with our design criteria, the developer will dedicate
the Retail Facilities to us or the District, as applicable, at no cost. At Sky
Ranch, the developer will dedicate the Retail Facilities to the District. We,
through our agreements with the District, are then responsible for the operation
and maintenance of the Retail Facilities.  

   Customer Facilities 
consist of water service pipelines, plumbing, meters and other components that
carry potable water and reclaimed water from the street to the customer s house
and collect wastewater from the customer s house and transfer it to the street.
In many cases, portions of the Customer Facilities are constructed by the
developer, again pursuant to our design standards, but are owned and maintained
by the customer.  

   Monthly
Service Fees   

  Monthly water usage
charges are assessed to customers connected to our water system and are based
on actual metered usage each month. Water usage pricing is based on a tiered
pricing structure which is based on our rate-based districts. Effective July 1,
2006 and July 1, 2005, the tiered pricing structure increased to the following
amounts based on increases at the rate-based districts:  

Revenues are sensitive to
timing and volume of water use meaning the more water used by a customer in a
given month the higher the cost of additional incremental water deliveries to
the customer. Based on this, for a typical residential customer using
approximately 0.4 acre-feet of water annually, during a typical weather year,
water usage fees would approximate $600 per year.  

  Wastewater customers are
charged a flat monthly fee of $34.80 per tap, or approximately $420 per year
per SFE, which was not increased on July 1, 2006. We also collect other
relatively small fees and charges from residential customers and other end
users to cover miscellaneous administrative and service expenses, such as
application fees, review fees and permit fees.  

   Land
Board Royalties and District Fees   

  Under the Rangeview Water
Agreements, the Land Board is entitled to royalty payments based on a
percentage of revenues earned from water sales that utilize water dedicated for
use on the Lowry Range Property or for Export Water Sales. The calculation of
royalties depends on whether the customer is located on the Lowry Range
Property, or elsewhere, and whether the customer is a public or private entity.
In addition, for water sales to customers located on the Lowry Range Property,
the District is entitled to a 5% fee, which is calculated after the royalty
payment to the Land Board, and the District is entitled to a fee of 10% of our
wastewater fees (not including wastewater tap fees) from customers on the
Lowry Range Property. The Land Board does not receive a royalty from wastewater
services.  

  The Rangeview Water
Agreements were written prior to any development of the Lowry Range Property or
areas outside of the Lowry Range Property that could utilize our Export Water.
For that reason, the Rangeview Water Agreements could not anticipate all the
specific circumstances that might arise in the future as we enter into and
negotiate agreements for the sale of Export Water or for the provision of
service to the Lowry Range. Therefore, the Rangeview Water Agreements may not
clearly delineate the rights and responsibilities of the parties for each transaction
that may arise. We anticipate that we will be required to enter into
negotiations with the Land Board from time to time to clarify the applicability
of contract terms to circumstances that were not anticipated at the time we
entered into the Rangeview Water Agreements. We cannot assure you that the
outcome of such negotiations will be favorable to us.  

11     

Lowry Range
Property Customers   

  For services to customers
located on the Lowry Range Property, the District collects fees from customers,
pays the royalties to the Land Board, retains its own fee, and remits the
remainder to us. Payments from customers who are on the Lowry Range Property
generate royalties to the Land Board at a rate of 12% of gross revenues. When
either (i) metered production of water used on the Lowry Range in any
calendar year exceeds 13,000 acre-feet or (ii) 10,000 surface acres on the
Lowry Range Property have been rezoned to non-agricultural use, finally platted
and water tap agreements have been entered into with respect to all improvements
to be constructed on such acreage, the Land Board may elect, at its option, to
receive, in lieu of its 12% royalty payments, 50% of the aggregate net profits
generated at the Lowry Range Property of the District and Pure Cycle. To date
neither of these conditions has been met.  

   Export Water
Customers   

  Payments for Export Water also generate royalty
payments to the Land Board. These royalties vary depending on a number of
factors including whether the customer is a public or private entity.  

  When we withdraw, treat and deliver the water to the user and incur the
costs related to this process, the royalty to the Land Board is based on our  Net
Revenues,  which are our gross revenues less costs, including reasonable
overhead allocations, incurred as a direct or indirect result of incremental
activity associated with the withdrawal, treatment and delivery of Export
Water. Royalties payable to the Land Board for Export Water sold escalate based
on the amount of Net Revenue we receive and are lower for sales to a water
district or similar municipal or public entity than for sales to a private
entity as noted in Table 3:    

Current
Operations   

  We operate and maintain a
water system that provides water services to our customers on the Lowry Range
Property and provides Export Water to the Fairgrounds, which we designed and
constructed. During fiscal 2006 we delivered approximately 56.6 million gallons
of potable water which equates to approximately 2 million gallons per month
during the winter to over 7 million gallons per month during the summer.  

  We also operate a
wastewater treatment plant, which we designed and built, that currently has a
permitted capacity of 130,000 gallons per day and receives about 20,000 gallons
per day.  

  At this time, we operate
and maintain all of our water and wastewater facilities with limited assistance
from third party contractors. We design, construct and operate the facilities
serving customers on the Lowry Range Property and plan to operate this system,
together with facilities serving customers in areas outside the Lowry Range
Property, in a unified manner to capitalize on economies of scale and ensure
the most efficient use of our water.  

  In August 2005, we
entered into the County Agreement to provide water services to the Fairgrounds,
which we started providing in July 2006.  

  In 1998, we entered into
a water service agreement with the State of Colorado Department of Human
Services to provide water and wastewater services to a juvenile correction
facility on the northwestern edge of the Lowry Range Property known as the
Ridge View Youth Services Center. We designed this system to provide water and
wastewater services to approximately 200 SFEs at the Ridge View Youth Services
Center. Upon completion in 2001, we commenced service to the Ridge View Youth
Services Center.  

12  

During fiscal 2006,
approximately 96% of our total water and wastewater treatment revenues were
from two customers.  

   Projected
Operations   

  We plan to develop our
water and wastewater systems in stages to meet incremental demands in our
service areas. We design, construct and operate our water and wastewater
facilities using advanced cleaning and treatment technologies currently
available in the market. We also design our systems to ensure we are using our
water supplies as efficiently as possibly. We use third party contractors to
construct our facilities and we employ licensed water and wastewater operators
to operate our water and wastewater systems. At full build-out, we expect to
employ professionals that will operate our systems, read meters, bill customers,
and manage our operations. We will take advantage of advanced technologies to
keep personnel requirements and operating costs low, such as systems that
enable meter readings and billings to be done remotely, reducing associated
handling and labor costs.  

  We plan to provide an
integrated water management system that combines conservation efforts with
effective water reuse planning and balanced water supply management. We plan to
jointly utilize our surface water rights that we acquired in the Arkansas River,
our two surface water streams that flow through the Lowry Range Property,
deep-well waters from our non-tributary water supplies and our stored reuse
water in our irrigation water system, to provide an efficient, environmentally
sound long-term water solution for our customers.  

  We anticipate initially
developing our Denver based water supplies located on the Lowry Range Property
before developing our Arkansas River water. This will be done to provide us
sufficient capital to construct the 150 mile pipeline required to bring the
Arkansas River water to the Front Range market, which we anticipate costing
over $400 million (which includes estimated costs of water treatment facilities
in the Arkansas Valley). We anticipate the process of converting the Arkansas
Water to municipal use and constructing the pipeline to be long-term, which
will allow us the ability to work closely with those who might be impacted by
any water transfers. We look forward to working with the FLCC, farmers, other
land owners, suppliers and other interested parties in the Arkansas River
Valley on this project. The development of this water will require us to apply
for a change of use in the Colorado water court which could take many years and
require a significant amount of capital. However, we do not anticipate starting
this process in the near term and anticipate that the tap fees and usage fees
from taps sold utilizing our Rangeview Water Supply to be sufficient to fund
these requirements. We ultimately anticipate being able to service over 100,000
SFE s with the Arkansas River water.  

  We expect the development
of our Rangeview Water Supply to require between 250 and 300 high capacity
water wells ranging in depth from 800 feet to over 2,500 feet. We anticipate
drilling separate wells into each of the three principal aquifers located
beneath the Lowry Range Property. Each well is intended to deliver water to
central water treatment facilities for treatment prior to delivery to
customers. We also intend to build structures to divert surface water to
storage reservoirs to be located on the Lowry Range Property. Our plan is to
divert the surface water when available and, prior to distribution to our
customers, to treat the surface water with a separate water treatment facility
built specifically to treat surface water. Based on preliminary independent
engineering estimates, the full build-out of water facilities on the Lowry
Range property will cost approximately $340 million and will accommodate water
service for up to 80,000 SFE units, which includes both customers located in
and outside the Lowry Range Property service area.  

  In October 2003 and May
2004, we entered into the Sky Ranch Agreements with the developer of Sky Ranch
to provide water to the development, which could include up to 4,850 SFE units,
as described above. Under the Sky Ranch Agreements, the developer must purchase
at least 400 water taps before occupancy of the first home. The Sky Ranch
Agreements permit the developer to add additional taps annually, with at
least 310 taps to be purchased each year after construction begins. This
schedule is designed to provide us with adequate funds with which to construct
the Wholesale Facilities needed to provide water service to the areas being
built. As of the date of this filing, Sky Ranch has not purchased any taps nor
indicated to us when it plans to start development of the property.  

13     

Rangeview
Metropolitan District   

  The District is a
quasi-municipal corporation and political subdivision of Colorado formed in
1986 for the purpose of providing water and wastewater service to the Lowry
Range Property. The District will utilize the 17,620 acre-feet of water leased
to it by the Land Board located on the Lowry Range Property for service to
customers on the Lowry Range Property.  

  The District is run by an
elected board of directors. The only eligible voters and the only persons
eligible to serve as directors are the owners of property within the boundaries
of the District. We own certain rights to the real property which encompasses
the current boundaries of the District. The current directors of the District
are Mark W. Harding, Scott E. Lehman (both are employees of Pure Cycle), Ryan
T. Clark (by reason of his role as manager of TPC Ventures, LLC, Ryan Clark is
deemed an indirect beneficial owner of more than 5% of Pure Cycle common
stock) and Tom Lamm.  

  We are party to a Right
of First Refusal Agreement with the owners of the property comprising the
District. Pursuant to a tenancy in common agreement, in the event of death,
bankruptcy or incompetence of any tenant, that tenant s estate or
representative must offer the property interest of that tenant to the remaining
tenants for purchase. If the remaining tenants do not purchase all of such
person s interest, the property must be offered to us pursuant to the Right of
First Refusal Agreement. In addition, if any tenant wants to sell his interest
in the parcel, such tenant must find a bona fide buyer and then offer the
property to us. We have the right, at our option, to buy the property by matching
the terms of the bona fide third party offer or by paying the appraised value
of the property as determined by independent appraisers. A tenant may also
negotiate a sale directly with us if he elects not to locate a bona fide buyer.
Each of the directors listed above, as well as Pure Cycle, currently own an
undivided interest in the land comprising the District. Under applicable
Colorado law, entities are not qualified to serve as directors of municipal
districts and may not vote. Our President and Secretary serve as elected
members of the board of directors of the District. Pursuant to Colorado law,
directors receive $75 for each board meeting or a maximum of $1,200 per year.  

  We and the board of
directors of the District transact business on an arms-length basis. The
conflicts of interest of the directors in transactions between us and the
District are disclosed in filings with the Colorado Secretary of State. The
District and we were each represented by separate legal counsel in negotiating
the water service agreement and wastewater service agreement between the
parties. The agreements were also approved by the two members of the District s
board who were not our employees and by the Land Board.  

  It is likely that at some
point in the future, the board of directors of the District will be comprised
entirely of directors independent from us. As the Land Board develops the Lowry
Range Property, landowners on the Lowry Range Property may petition to include
their land within the District s boundaries. Provided such petition complies
with applicable law, the District is required by its lease with the Land Board
to proceed with due diligence to include the area designated in such petition
within the District s boundaries. As the District s boundaries expand, the base
of persons eligible to serve as directors and eligible to vote will also
increase.  

   Water and
Growth in Colorado   

  The Denver Regional
Council of Governments ( DRCOG ), a voluntary association of over 50 county and
municipal governments in the Denver metropolitan area, estimates that from the
year 2005 to 2030 the population in the Denver metropolitan area will increase
by 1.3 million people to 3.9 million people. To accommodate this growth,
DRCOG has estimated that metropolitan Denver will grow from roughly 500 square
miles to roughly 770 square miles during the same 25-year period. This will add
approximately 350,000 new single family equivalent connections which will
require more than 140,000 acre-feet of water annually.  

  Currently 80% of the
State s population resides along the  Front Range,  which extends from Pueblo
to Fort Collins and lies along the eastern side of the Rocky Mountains, but 80%
of the water in the state falls on the west side of the continental divide. The
largest population center is the greater Denver metropolitan area which has
been growing at above average rates for decades. By the 1960s, water available
during an average precipitation year from Denver s primary source of surface
water, the South Platte River, was no longer sufficient to meet the area s
needs. To address this imbalance, numerous reservoirs and tunnels have been
built to transport an average of 500,000 acre-feet per year of Arkansas River
water and Colorado River water located in southern and western Colorado to metropolitan
Denver  

14     

water providers. Even
with this diversion, the U.S. Department of the Interior has identified the
Denver metropolitan area as one that is  highly likely  to experience a  water
supply crisis  by 2025.  

  With these projected
levels of growth and with interest heightened by droughts in Colorado, water
has become one of the single largest influences on development in Colorado. Add
to this that due to various compacts and treaties with downstream states, over
60% of the water that originates in Colorado leaves the state. Due to wide
fluctuations in snowfall from year to year and area to area, the amount of
surface water that can be captured for use varies greatly. This has lead most
water providers in Colorado to actively pursue additional water supplies
including the use of reclaimed wastewater for irrigation and other non-potable
uses. In many ways we have led the effort in the metropolitan area to design
water reuse systems and have assisted in establishing regulatory standards for
water reuse water quality standards, having participated in the Department of
Public Health s regulatory rule making process defining water quality standards
for reuse water. Our master plan for our service area, which includes the Lowry
Range Property and services to Sky Ranch, and all other areas in which we will
provide services, calls for the installation of a dual pipe water distribution
and reclamation system. A dual pipe distribution system is where one pipe
supplies the customer with high quality potable drinking water and a second
pipe supplies raw or reclaimed water to homes for irrigation uses. About
one-half of the water needed to meet Denver-area residential water demands is
used for landscaping and outdoor irrigation of lawns. We, along with most major
water providers, believe that raw or reclaimed water supplies provide the
lowest cost water for irrigation purposes for customers.  

  The Colorado Department
of Public Health and Environment in August 2005 adopted rules defining water
quality standards for raw and reclaimed water uses for residential irrigation
customers. We expect that the implementation of an extensive water reclamation
system, in which essentially all wastewater treatment plant effluent water will
be re-used to meet nonpotable water demands, will greatly expand our capability
to provide quality water service and will reinforce our philosophy that
emphasizes the importance of water recycling in water short regions such as the
Front Range of Colorado.  

   Competition   

  Although we have
exclusive long term water and wastewater service contracts for the Lowry Range
Property, providing water service using our Export Water and Arkansas River
water is subject to competition. Alternate sources of water are available,
principally from other private parties, such as farmers owning senior water
rights that are no longer being economically used in agriculture and
municipalities seeking to annex newly developed areas in order to increase
their tax base. Our principal competition in areas close to the Lowry Range Property
is the neighboring City of Aurora. The principal factors affecting competition
for potential purchasers of our Arkansas River water and Export Water include
the availability of water for the particular purpose, the cost of delivering
the water to the desired location and the reliability of the water supply
during drought periods. We believe the water assets we own and have the
exclusive rights to use, which have a supply capacity of 180,000 SFE units (or
roughly 720,000 people), provide us a significant competitive advantage along
the Front Range because our legal rights to the assets have been confirmed for
municipal use (for our Rangeview Water Supply), a significant portion of our
water supply is close to Denver area water users, our pricing structure is
competitive and our water portfolio is well balanced with senior surface
rights, groundwater rights, storage capacity and reclamation water. Further,
the size of the Lowry Range Property and the amount of property that can be
served by the Arkansas River water and Export Water will provide us with
economies of scale that should give us advantages over our competitors.  

   Employees
and Significant Customers   

  We currently have three
full-time employees.  

  For the years ended
August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, 96%, 98% and 96% of our revenues were from
two customers, respectively.  

   Available
Information and Website Address   

  Our website address is  www.purecyclewater.com . We make available free of charge
through our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports as soon
as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC. They also may be obtained
directly from the  

15     

SEC s website,  www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/companysearch.html ,
under CIK code 276720. The contents of our website are not incorporated by
reference into this report.  

   Item 1A.                  Risk
Factors      

   Our
business, operations, and financial condition are subject to significant risks.
These risks include those listed below and may include additional risks of
which we are not currently aware or which we currently do not believe are
material. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk
factors actually occurs, our business could be materially adversely affected.
These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth
in this report.   

   We are dependent on the development of Sky Ranch, the Lowry Range Property and other areas near our Rangeview Water Supply that are potential markets for our Export Water.   

  We expect that our
principal source of future revenue will be from long term contracts with the
Land Board, which expire in 2081 and entitle us to provide water service to the
Lowry Range Property. In addition to the Lowry Range, we have service
agreements with Sky Ranch, which entitle us to provide water service to the Sky
Ranch development.  The timing and amount
of these revenues will depend significantly on the development of these areas.
The Lowry Range Property is owned by the Land Board, which is in the early
stages of considering various development alternatives, but no timetable exists
for development. As a component of the Sky Ranch Agreements, we are dependent
on the development of the property prior to us receiving revenues for water
service, which development is under the control of the developer. We are not
able to determine the timing of water sales or the timing of development. There
can be no assurance that development will occur or that water sales will occur
on acceptable terms or in the amounts or time required for us to support our
costs of operation. Because of the prior use of the Lowry Range Property as a
military facility, environmental clean-up may be required prior to development,
including the removal of unexploded ordnance. There is often significant delay
in adoption of development plans, as the political process involves many
constituencies with differing interests. In the event water sales are not
forthcoming or development of the Lowry Range Property is delayed, we may incur
additional short or long-term debt obligations or seek to sell additional
equity to generate operating capital. In the event development of the Lowry
Range Property and the surrounding areas is delayed, or the Land Board
determines to limit the use of significant portions of the Lowry Range Property
for open space, we may be required to incur additional short-term or long-term
debt obligations or seek to sell additional equity to generate operating
capital until demand arises for our water assets.  

  Our operations are
significantly affected by the general economic conditions for real estate
development and the pace and location of real estate development activities in
the greater Denver metropolitan area, most particularly areas such as Sky Ranch
which are close to our Rangeview Water Supply and thus are potential markets
for our Export Water. Increases in the number of our water and wastewater
connections, our connection fees and our billings and collections will depend
on real estate development in this area. We have no ability to control the pace
and location of real estate development activities which affect our business.  

   In order
to utilize the Arkansas River water acquired in fiscal 2006, we have to apply
for a change of use with the Colorado water court and this may take several
years to complete.   

  The change of use of our
Arkansas River water requires a ruling by the Colorado water courts, which
could take several years and be a costly and contentious effort since it is
anticipated that many parties will oppose the transfer of the water. There are
several conditions which must be satisfied prior to our receiving a change of
use decree for transfer of our Arkansas River water. One condition that we must
satisfy is a showing of anti-speculation in which we, as the applicant must
demonstrate that we have contractual obligations to provide water service to
customers prior to the water court ruling on the transfer of a water right. The
water court is also expected to limit the transfer to the  consumptive use 
portion of the water right and to address changing the historic use of the
water from agricultural uses to other uses such as municipal and industrial
use. We expect to face opposition to any consumptive use calculations of the
historic agricultural uses of this water. The water court may impose conditions
on our transfer of the water rights such as requiring us to mitigate the loss
of the farming tax base, imposing re-vegetation requirements to convert soils
from irrigated to non-irrigated, and imposing water quality measures. Any such
conditions will likely increase the cost of transferring the water rights.  

16     

Our net
losses may continue and we may not have sufficient liquidity to pursue our
business objectives.   

  We have experienced
significant net losses and could continue to incur net losses. For the years
ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we had net losses of approximately
$793,000, $1,051,000 and $1,976,000, respectively, on revenues of approximately
$271,700, $234,700 and $205,000, in the respective periods. Our cash flows from
operations have been insufficient to fund our operations in the past, and we
have been required to raise debt and equity capital to remain in operation.
Since 1998, we have raised approximately $10.1 million through the issuance of
approximately 2.5 million shares of common stock to support our operations. Our
ability to fund our operational needs and meet our business objectives will
depend on our ability to generate cash from future operations. If our future cash
flow from operations and other capital resources are insufficient to fund our
operations and the significant capital expenditure requirements to build our
water delivery systems, we may be forced to reduce or delay our business
activities, or seek to obtain additional debt or equity capital, which may not
be available on acceptable terms, or at all.  

   The rates
we are allowed to charge customers are limited by the District s contract with
the Land Board and our contract with the District and may be insufficient to
cover our costs of construction and operation.   

  The prices we can charge
for our water and wastewater services are subject to pricing regulations set in
the District s contract with the Land Board and our contract with the District.
Both the tap fees and our usage rates and charges are based on the average of
the rates of our rate-based districts. Annually we survey the tap fees and
rates of our rate-based districts and set our tap fees and rates and charges
based on the average of those charged by this group. Our costs associated with
the construction of water delivery systems and the production, treatment and
delivery of our water are subject to market conditions and other factors, which
may increase at a significantly greater rate than the prices charged by our
rate-based districts. Factors beyond our control and which cannot be predicted,
such as drought, water contamination and severe weather conditions, like
tornadoes and floods, may result in additional labor and material costs that
may not necessarily be recoverable under our operations and maintenance
contracts, creating additional differences from the costs of our rate-based
districts. Increased customer demand can also increase the overall cost of our
operations. If the costs for construction and operation of our water services,
including the cost of extracting our groundwater, exceed our revenues, we may
petition the Land Board for rate increases. There can be no assurance that the
Land Board would approve a rate increase beyond the average of the rate-based
districts. Our profitability could be negatively impacted if we experience an
imbalance of costs and revenues and are not successful in receiving approval
for rate increases.  

   We only
have three employees and may not be able to manage the increasing demands of
our expanding operations.   

  We expect our activities
relating to the Sky Ranch Agreements to significantly expand our business, and
we are actively pursuing additional development opportunities in areas near Sky
Ranch, as well as opportunities near our recently acquired Arkansas River
water. We currently have only three employees to administer our existing
assets, interface with applicable governmental bodies, market our services and
plan for the construction and development of our future assets. We may not be
able to maximize the value of our water assets because of our limited manpower.
We depend significantly on the services of Mark W. Harding, our President. The
loss of Mr. Harding would cause a significant interruption of our operations.
The success of our future business development and ability to capitalize on
growth opportunities depends on our ability to attract and retain additional
experienced and qualified persons to operate and manage our business. State
regulations set the training, experience and qualification standards required
for our employees to operate specific water and wastewater facilities. Failure
to find state-certified and qualified employees to support the operation of our
facilities could put us at risk, among other things, for operational errors at
the facilities, for improper billing and collection processes, and for loss of
contracts and revenues. We cannot assure you that we can successfully manage
our assets and our growth.  

   Our
business is subject to governmental regulation and permitting requirements. We
may be adversely affected by any future decision by the Colorado Public
Utilities Commission to regulate us as a public utility and to impose
regulation.   

  The Colorado Public
Utilities Commission ( CPUC ) regulates investor-owned water companies
that hold themselves out to the public as serving, or ready to serve, all of
the public in a service area. The CPUC regulates  

17     

many aspects of public
utilities  operations, including the location and construction of facilities,
establishing water rates and fees, initiating inspections, enforcement and
compliance activities and assisting consumers with complaints.  

  Although we act as a
service provider under contracts with quasi-municipal metropolitan districts
that are exempt by statute from regulation by the CPUC, the CPUC could decide
to regulate us as a public utility. If this were to occur, we might incur
significant expense challenging the CPUC s assertion of authority, and we may
be unsuccessful. In the future, existing regulations may be revised or
reinterpreted, and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable
to us or our facilities. If we become regulated as a public utility, our
ability to generate profits could be limited and we might incur significant
costs associated with regulatory compliance.  

   There are
many obstacles to our ability to sell our Paradise Water Supply.   

  We currently earn no
revenues from our Paradise Water Supply, which as of August 31, 2006 has a
recorded cost of approximately $5.5 million. Our ability to convert our
Paradise Water Supply into an income generating asset is limited. Due to the
nature of the Paradise Water rights and agreements with other western slope
water interests, our use of the Paradise Water Supply is limited to
opportunities along the western slope. As part of our water court decree for
the Paradise Water Supply, we are permitted to construct a storage facility on
the Colorado River. However, due to the strict regulatory requirements for
constructing an on-channel reservoir, completing the conditional storage right
at its decreed location could be difficult. As a result, we cannot assure you
that we will ever be able to make use of this asset or sell the water
profitably.  

  Our Paradise Water Supply
is also conditioned on a Finding of Reasonable Diligence from the water court
every six years. To arrive at that finding, a water court must determine that
we continue to diligently pursue the development of the water rights, either by
us or by some third party who has a contractual commitment for its use. If the
water court is unable to make such a finding, our right to the Paradise Water
Supply would be lost and we would be required to impair the Paradise Water
Supply asset and incur a $5.5 million charge against earnings. The State
Engineers office began its latest review of our conditional water rights in
fiscal 2005. At this time we are unable to estimate when the review will be
complete or the outcome of this review.  

   Conflicts
of interest may arise relating to the operation of the District.   

  Our officers, employees
and a majority shareholder, constitute a majority of the directors of the
Rangeview Metropolitan District and Pure Cycle, along with our officers and
employees and one unrelated individual, own as tenants in common, the 40 acres
that form the District. Pursuant to State law, directors receive $75 for each
board meeting or a maximum compensation of $1,200 per year. We have made loans
to the District to fund its operations. At August 31, 2006, total principal
and interest owed to us by the District was approximately $452,200. The
District is a party to our agreements with the Land Board and receives fees of
5% of the revenues from the sale of water on the Lowry Range Property and will
hold title to the water distribution system at the Sky Ranch development.
Proceeds from the fee collections will initially be used to repay the District s
obligations to us, but after these loans are repaid, the District is not
required to use the funds to benefit Pure Cycle. We have received benefits from
our activities undertaken in conjunction with the District, but conflicts may
arise between our interests and those of the District, and with our officers
who are acting in dual capacities in negotiating contracts to which both we and
the District are parties. We expect that the District will expand when more
properties are developed and become part of the District, and our officers
acting as directors of the District will have fiduciary obligations to those
other constituents. There can be no assurance that all conflicts will be
resolved in the best interests of Pure Cycle and its stockholders. In addition,
other landowners coming into the District will be eligible to vote and to serve
as directors of the District. There can be no assurances that our officers and
employees will remain as directors of the District or that the actions of a
subsequently elected board would not have an adverse impact on our operations.  

   We are
required to maintain stringent water quality standards and are subject to
regulatory and environmental risks.   

  We must provide water
that meets all federal and state regulatory water quality standards and operate
our water and wastewater facilities in accordance with these standards. We face
contamination and pollution issues regarding our water supplies. Improved
detection technology, increasingly stringent regulatory requirements, and
heightened consumer awareness of water quality issues contribute to an
environment of increased focus on water quality. In  

18     

contrast with other
providers in Colorado, we are combining the water delivery and wastewater
treatment processes, which may introduce technical treatment issues that make
compliance with water quality standards more difficult. We cannot assure you
that we will be able in the future to reduce the amounts of contaminants in our
water to acceptable levels. In addition, the standards that we must meet are
constantly changing and becoming more stringent. For example, in February 2002,
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency lowered the arsenic standard in
drinking water from 50 parts per billion to 10 parts per billion. Future
changes in regulations governing the supply of drinking water and treatment of
wastewater may have a material adverse impact on our financial results.  

  We handle certain
hazardous materials at our water treatment facilities, primarily sodium
hypochlorite. Any failure of our operation of the facilities in the future,
including sewage spills, noncompliance with water quality standards, hazardous
materials leaks and spills, and similar events could expose us to environmental
liabilities, claims and litigation costs. We cannot assure you that we will
successfully manage these issues, and failure to do so could have a material
adverse effect on our future results of operations by increasing our costs for
damages and cleanup.  

   Our
contracts for the construction of water and wastewater projects may expose us
to certain completion and performance risks.   

  We intend to rely on
independent contractors to construct our water and wastewater facilities. These
construction activities may involve risks, including shortages of materials and
labor, work stoppages, labor relations disputes, weather interference,
engineering, environmental, permitting or geological problems and unanticipated
cost increases. These issues could give rise to delays, cost overruns or
performance deficiencies, or otherwise adversely affect the construction or
operation of our water and wastewater delivery systems.  

  In addition, we may
experience quality problems in the construction of our systems and facilities,
including equipment failures. We cannot assure you that we will not face claims
from customers or others regarding product quality and installation of
equipment placed in service by contractors.  

  Certain of our contracts
may be fixed-price contracts, in which we may bear all or a significant portion
of the risk for cost overruns. Under these fixed-price contracts, contract
prices are established in part based on fixed, firm subcontractor quotes on
contracts and on cost and scheduling estimates. These estimates may be based on
a number of assumptions, including assumptions about prices and availability of
labor, equipment and materials, and other issues. If these subcontractor
quotations or cost estimates prove inaccurate, or if circumstances change, cost
overruns may occur, and our financial results would be negatively impacted. In
many cases, the incurrence of these additional costs would not be within our
control.  

  We may have contracts in
which we guarantee project completion by a scheduled date. At times, we may
guarantee that the project, when completed, will achieve certain performance
standards. If we fail to complete the project as scheduled, or if we fail to
meet guaranteed performance standards, we may be held responsible for cost
impacts and/or penalties to the customer resulting from any delay or for the
costs to alter the project to achieve the performance standards. To the extent
that these events occur and are not due to circumstances for which the customer
accepts responsibility or cannot be mitigated by performance bonds or the
provisions of our agreements with contractors, the total costs of the project
could exceed our original estimates and our financial results would be negatively
impacted.  

  Our customers may require
us to secure performance and completion bonds for certain contracts and
projects. The market environment for surety companies has become more risk
averse. We secure performance and completion bonds for our contracts from these
surety companies. To the extent we are unable to obtain bonds, we may not be
awarded new contracts. We cannot assure you that we can secure performance and
completion bonds where required.  

  We may operate
engineering and construction activities for water and wastewater facilities
where design, construction or system failures could result in injury to third
parties or damage to property. Any losses that exceed claims against our
contractors, the performance bonds and our insurance limits at facilities so
managed could result in claims against us. In addition, if there is a customer
dispute regarding performance of our services, the customer may decide to delay
or withhold payment to us.  

19     

Weaknesses in the Company s internal controls and
procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company.   

  Management is responsible
for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ). In making its
assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of August 31,
2006, management used the criteria described in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. A material weakness is a control
deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in a more than
remote likelihood a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial
statements will not be prevented or detected.  

  Management determined
that a material weaknesses in our internal control over financial
reporting existed as of August 31, 2006. See Item 9A   Controls
and Procedures for a description of this material weakness.  

  The material weakness
identified resulted in an adverse opinion by our independent registered public
accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting.  

  We are developing a
remediation plan and intend to implement remediation measures during fiscal
2007, designed to remediate the material weakness in our internal controls by
August 31, 2007 (See Item 9A   Controls and Procedures). We
cannot assure you as to when the remediation plan will be fully implemented,
nor can we assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be
identified by our management or independent accountants in the future. In
addition, even after the remedial measures are fully implemented, our internal
controls may not prevent all potential error and fraud, because any control
system, no matter how well designed, can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance that the objectives of the control system will be achieved.  

   Accounting
for the Arkansas River Agreement is not finalized   

  The Company
completed the acquisition of the Arkansas River Water Rights and related assets
as of August 31, 2006 and has provided purchase accounting based on initial
valuations which may be subject to change. 
We are continuing to evaluate future impacts on our balance sheet and statement
of operations for fiscal years 2007 and continuing, which could result in a
material impact to our financial statements.  

   Item 1B.                  Unresolved
Staff Comments      

  None  

   Item 2.                     Properties      

  We currently occupy
approximately 1,800 square feet of office space at a cost of $1,000 per month,
which is leased from Ryan Clark, an indirect beneficial owner of greater than
5% of Pure Cycle common stock, at the address shown on the cover page. The
lease is a month-to-month agreement that can be cancelled by either party at
any time.  

  We own the following
amounts of water and other items associated with the water rights   see   Item 1. Description of Our Water Assets and Related Service Agreements  :  

                        We
own approximately 60,000 acre-feet of Arkansas River water represented by over 21,600
shares of the FLCC, approximately 17,500 acres of real property located in
Bent, Otero and Prowers counties, Colorado and mineral rights and personal
property associated with the real property. 

                        We
own a total gross volume of 1,165,000 acre-feet (approximately 11,650 acre-feet
per year) of non-tributary groundwater, an option to substitute 1,650
acre-feet of tributary surface water in exchange for a total gross volume of
165,000 acre-feet of non-tributary groundwater, and surface storage rights from
the District. 

                        We
are a party to two seventy-five year Rangeview Water Agreements with the
District and the Land Board which entitle us to design, construct, operate and
maintain the water and wastewater systems which serve customers within the
District s service area. In exchange, we receive 95% of all amounts received by
the District for water services net of royalties totaling 12% of gross revenues
to the Land Board, 100% of the District s wastewater tap fees and 90% of the
District s wastewater usage fees. 

                        We
own approximately 70,000 acre-feet of conditional water rights, water wells and
related assets in the State of Colorado by assignment and quitclaim deed. 

20     

We
own 89.2 acre-feet of groundwater located in the Sky Ranch development. This
represents 40% of the 223 acre-feet of groundwater we will own upon exercise of
our rights under the Denver groundwater purchase agreement. 

                        We
own an undivided 59.9% interest as a tenant-in-common in a 40-acre parcel of
undeveloped land located in unincorporated Arapahoe County comprising the
Rangeview Metropolitan District. 

   Item 3.                     Legal
Proceedings      

  We are currently involved
in a Finding of Reasonable Diligence review by the water court and the State
Engineer which occurs every six years. For more information see  Paradise Water Supply  in  Item 1   Business 
above.  

   Item 4.                     Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders      

  No matters were submitted
to a vote of stockholders during the quarter ended August 31, 2006.  

   PART II     

   Item 5.                                                                 Market
for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of   Equity
Securities   

   (a) 
                         Market
Information   

  Our common stock is
traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol PCYO.  The high and low sales prices of our common
stock, by quarter, for the fiscal years ended August 31, 2006 and 2005 are
presented with the Selected Quarterly Financial Information in Item 8 below.  

   (b)                           Holders   

  On October 31, 2006, there were 3,477
holders of record of our common stock.  

   (c)                           Dividends   

  We have never paid
any dividends on our common stock and expect for the foreseeable future to
retain all of our earnings from operations, if any, for use in expanding and
developing our business. Any future decision as to the payment of dividends
will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our
earnings, financial position, capital requirements, plans for expansion and
such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. The terms of our
Series B Preferred Stock prohibit payment of dividends on common stock unless
all dividends accrued on the Series B Preferred Stock have been paid.  

   (d)                                                                                       Securities
authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans  

Plan category   

Number of 
  securities to be 
  issued upon 
  exercise of 
  outstanding 
  options, warrants 
  and rights   

Weighted-average exercise 
  price of 
  outstanding 
  options, warrants 
  and rights   

Number of securities 
  remaining available 
  for future issuance 
  under equity 
  compensation plans 
  (excluding securities 
  reflected in column 
  (a))   

(a)   

(b)   

(c)   

Equity compensation
  plans approved by security holders  

361,428  

$  

4.13  

1,477,500  

Equity
  compensation plans not approved by security holders  

300,000  

$  

1.80  

Total  

661,428  

$  

3.08  

1,477,500  

21  

(e)                           Recent Sales of
Unregistered Securities   

  None  

   Item 6.                     Selected
Financial Data      

  Basic and diluted loss
per share and weighted average shares outstanding for the years ended
August 31, 2003 and 2002 reflect a 10-for-1 reverse split that was
effective April 26, 2004.  

The following
items had a significant impact on our operations:  

                        In fiscal 2006
we acquired approximately $102.6 million of water and real property interests
in the Arkansas River Valley. The consideration for these assets consisted of
equity valued at approximately $36.2 million and Tap Participation Fees of
approximately $66.1 million which are payable when we sell water taps. In
addition, because we are deemed the indirect guarantor of certain promissory
notes payable by HP A M, we have recorded a liability for approximately
$14.6 million with a corresponding receivable in equity. For more information
see Note 3 in the accompanying financial statements. 

                        In fiscal 2006
we recognized $390,900 of gain related to the extinguishment of debt and the
acquisition of certain CAA interests   see Note 6 in the accompanying financial
statements. 

                        In fiscal 2004
we recognized a $1.1 million dollar loss related to the acquisition of certain
CAA interests. 

   Item 7.                     Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation      

  Readers are
cautioned that forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K should be
read in conjunction with our disclosure under the heading:  SAFE HARBOR
STATEMENT UNDER THE UNITED STATES PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF
1995  on page 3.  

    General    

  Pure Cycle is an
investor owned water and wastewater service provider engaged in the design,
operation and maintenance of water and wastewater systems. We operate primarily
in the Denver metropolitan area and own nearly 12,000 acre-feet of groundwater
in the Denver area. We also own approximately 60,000 acre-feet of Arkansas
River water, we have the exclusive rights to use over 17,000 acre-feet of
groundwater located at the Lowry Range Property through the year 2081, and we
own 70,000 acre-feet of conditional water rights on the western slope of
Colorado. We plan to utilize our Denver assets and our Arkansas River water to
provide large scale residential/commercial   

22     

water and
wastewater services to customers located along the Front Range of Colorado. We
are also exploring new ways to use our western slope water for municipal or
agricultural purposes along the western slope of Colorado.  

   Critical Accounting Policies   

  Our financial statements
are prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the
financial statements, and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ significantly from those
estimates.  

  We have identified
certain key accounting policies on which our financial condition and results of
operations are dependent. These key accounting policies most often involve
complex matters and are based on subjective judgments or decisions. In the
opinion of management, our most critical accounting policies are those related
to revenue recognition, impairment of water assets and other long-lived assets,
depletion and depreciation, accounting for Participating Interests in Export
Water, Tap Participation Fees, royalty and other obligations, and income taxes.
Management periodically reviews its estimates, including those related to the
recoverability and useful lives of assets. Changes in facts and circumstances
may result in revised estimates.  

   Revenue
Recognition   

  Our revenues consist
mainly of tap fees, construction fees and monthly service fees. Emerging Issues
Task Force Issue No. 00-21  Revenue Arrangements with
Multiple Deliverables  ( EITF 00-21 ), governs how to identify when
goods or services, or both, that are separately delivered but included in a
single sales arrangement should be accounted for individually. Based on the
criteria of EITF 00-21, we account for each of the items contained in our
service agreements individually. That is, we determine the proper revenue
recognition for tap fees, construction fees and services fees independent of
one another.  

  Proceeds from tap sales
and construction fees are deferred upon receipt and recognized in income based
on whether we own or do not own the facilities constructed with the proceeds.
Tap fees and construction fees derived from agreements for which we construct
infrastructure the customer will own are recognized in accordance with
Statement of Position 81-1  Accounting for
Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts ,
whereby we recognize tap fees and construction fees as revenue and costs of
construction based on the percentage-of-completion method.  Tap fees and construction fees derived from
agreements for which we will own the infrastructure are recognized in
accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104  Revenue
Recognition ( SAB 104 ),  whereby the up front fees are recognized
ratably over the estimated service life of the facilities constructed, starting
at completion of construction. Because we own these facilities, we capitalize
construction costs and amortize those as costs of revenue over the assets
estimated useful life.  

  We recognize water and
wastewater usage revenues upon delivery of water and collection of wastewater,
in the month in which the services are performed. Water service fees are based
upon metered water deliveries to customers plus base charges. Wastewater
customers are charged flat monthly fees.  

   Impairment
of Water Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets   

  We review our long-lived
assets for impairment at least annually or whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
recoverable. We measure recoverability of assets to be held and used by a
comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash
flows we expect to be generated by the eventual use of the asset (the fair
value). If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be
recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets
exceeds the fair value of the assets. We report assets to be disposed of at the
lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. We believe there
were no impairments in the carrying amounts of our investments in water and
water systems at August 31, 2006.  

23     

Accounting
for CAA Payments   

  The balance sheet
liability captioned  Participating Interests in Export Water Supply  (the  Participating
Interests ) represents an obligation which arose under the Water
Commercialization Agreement (the  WCA ), as amended by the CAA.  

  Upon entering into the
CAA, we recorded an initial liability of approximately $11.1 million, which
represents the cash we received and used to purchase our Export Water Supply.
In return we agreed to remit a total of $31.8 million of proceeds received from
the sale of Export Water to the Participating Interest holders. In accordance
with EITF Issue No 88-18  Sales of Future Revenues ,
the obligation for the $11.1 million was recorded as debt, and the remaining
$20.7 million contingent liability is not reflected on our balance sheet
because the obligation to pay this is contingent on sales of Export Water, the
amounts and timing of which are not reasonably determinable.  

  As of August 31,
2006, the remaining Participating Interests liability reflected on our balance
sheet totaled $6.5 million, and the contingent liability not reflected on our
balance sheet totaled $12.2 million. For more information see   Note 4    Participating Interests
in Export Water   to the accompanying financial statements.  

   Tap
Participation Fees   

  On August 31, 2006
we acquired 60,000 acre-feet of Arkansas River water along with real property
and other associated rights. As consideration for these assets we agreed to pay
HP A M, among other items, 10% of our tap fees on the sale of the next
40,000 water taps, of which, 39,470 water taps remain to be paid (during
the due diligence period specified in the Arkansas River Agreement, HP A M
sold certain property rights which pursuant to the Arkansas River Agreement
were deemed in effect Tap Participation Fee payments, the value of these
equated to 530 taps under the tap participation section of the Arkansas River
Agreement). This purchase was accounted for pursuant to Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 141  Business Combinations 
( SFAS 141 ). Due to the fact that the Tap Participation Fee is payable to HP
A M based on the tap fees in effect at the time of the sale of the taps and
due to our inability to reasonably identify the start date of the required
payments or the timing of the required payments, we are not able to reasonably
estimate the total Tap Participation Fees payable to HP A M . Since the
Arkansas River Agreement calls for contingent payments that might be considered
additional costs of the asset at the date when paid, SFAS 141 required us to
record a liability equal to the excess of the fair value of the acquired assets
over the fair value of the purchase consideration. This liability is
non-interest bearing and will only be paid once we receive tap fees. For more
information see   Note 3   Water, Water Systems and
Service Agreements   in the accompanying financial statements.  

   Contingent
Obligations Payable Upon Default by HP A M   

  Certain of the properties
we acquired are subject to outstanding promissory notes and accrued interest
totaling approximately $14.6 million, which are secured by deeds of trust on
the properties acquired. We did not assume any of these promissory notes, and
we are not responsible for making any of the required payments under these
notes.  This responsibility remained
solely with HP A M. In the event of default by HP A M, at our sole
discretion, we have the option to assume any of the notes in default and make
payments pursuant to the notes. If HP A M defaults on the promissory notes,
we can foreclose on a defined amount of stock issued to HP A M being held
in escrow and reduce the Tap Participation Fee by two times the amount of notes
defaulted on by HP A M. Pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Financial
Interpretation No. 45  Guarantor s Accounting and
Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of
Indebtedness of Others (as amended) , our option to assume HP A M s
obligations under any defaulted promissory notes is considered an indirect
guarantee of debt because if we do not cure the default we would lose some of
the acquired land and water rights. Thus, the outstanding balance of the
promissory notes has been reflected as a liability in the accompanying balance
sheet. Additionally, we have recorded a receivable in our equity section from
HP A M for the same amount as the liability, since we would recover any
amounts paid in the event of default by HP A M by recovering stock and Tap
Participation Fee interests from HP A M. The recorded liability and the
contra-equity receivable will be reduced as HP A M makes its scheduled
payments to the note holders.  

24     

Royalty
and other obligations   

  Revenues from the sale of
Export Water are shown net of royalties payable to the Land Board. Revenues
from the sale of water on the Lowry Range Property are shown net of the
royalties to the Land Board and the fees retained by the District.  

   Depletion
and depreciation of water assets   

  Water supplies that are being
utilized are depleted on the basis of units produced divided by the total
volume of water adjudicated in the water decrees. Water systems are depreciated
on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives.  

   Income
taxes   

  We use the asset and
liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under the asset and liability
method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated
future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using
enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which we
expect to recover or settle those temporary differences. The effect on deferred
tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in
the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is provided
for deferred tax assets until realization is more likely than not.  

    Results of
Operations    

   Executive
Summary   

  The results of our
operations for the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as
follows:  

Water and
Wastewater Usage Revenues   

  During fiscal 2006 and
2004 we delivered approximately the same amount of water to our customers.
However, due to increased water usage fees in fiscal 2005 and 2006, the fiscal
2006 water usage revenues are 12% higher than fiscal 2004. During fiscal 2005
water deliveries were down, which is mainly due to the Front Range experiencing
more precipitation in 2005 then in 2004, and therefore, our customers used less
water for irrigation purposes. However, because of the higher rates in fiscal
2005, the water usage charges exceeded that of fiscal 2004. Fiscal 2006 usage
fees were higher than fiscal 2005 due to higher water usage and higher rates.  

  Our water service
charges are based on a tiered pricing structure that provides for higher prices
as customers use greater amounts of water. Our rates and charges are
established based on the average of three surrounding communities, referred to
as our rate-based districts. Table 2 included above in  Item 1  
Description of Business , outlines our tiered pricing structure and
changes during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Usage fees increased
effective July 1, 2006 and July 1, 2005, which was based on increases at our
rate-based districts.  

25     

Our wastewater customers
are charged flat monthly fees based on the number of tap connections they have.
Wastewater usage fees increased July 1, 2005 from $33.70 to $34.80 per
wastewater tap per month, which accounts for the changes in revenues between
the fiscal years.  

  Gross margins for water
and wastewater operations have remained consistent in all three years
presented, with the exception of the wastewater margin in 2004 which was
impacted by certain costs incurred to increase the efficiency of the system.
During fiscal 2006, and for all years presented, we reclassified certain energy
bills from general and administrative expenses to water delivery operating
costs to more accurately reflect the costs of delivering the water.  

   General and Administrative and
Other Expenses   

  General and
administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006 were
impacted by the adoption of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004)  Share Based Payment  ( SFAS 123(R) ). For fiscal 2006 we
recorded stock-based compensation expense of $209,600. There was no stock-based
compensation recorded in fiscal 2005 or 2004. Without stock-based compensation
expenses, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2006 would have been
$1,334,900. This is an increase over fiscal 2005 general and administrative
expenses of $19,600 and an increase of $540,900 over fiscal 2004 general and
administrative expenses.  

  Other increases in
general and administrative expenses for the three fiscal years presented are
due mainly to the following factors:  

                        Salaries and
related expenses (including SFAS 123(R) expenses and healthcare
costs) totaled approximately $945,800, $690,500 and $466,500 for the
fiscal years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Without
the effects of SFAS 123(R), salary and related expenses in fiscal 2006 would
have been $736,200, which is an increase over fiscal 2005 of $45,700. This
increase is mainly attributable to a $250,000 bonus to our President in fiscal
2006 versus a $150,000 bonus in fiscal 2005 offset by reduced monthly salary
and healthcare expenses due to the passing away of our former CEO in June 2005. 

                        Professional
fees totaled approximately $187,400, $173,500 and $127,400 for the fiscal years
ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  This increase is a result of higher audit and
audit related fees and increased legal expenses due to certain transactions
completed in fiscal 2006 and 2005. 

                        Fees related to
our board of directors totaled approximately $131,600, $110,800 and $49,700 for
the fiscal years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Board
and related fees have increased since fiscal 2004 due to the addition of
several new committees and the addition of a new board member in each of fiscal
2006 and 2005. Each time we add a new board member, that member receives
$10,000 (which is then paid annually) and an option to purchase 5,000
shares of the common stock. Board members receive $500 per meeting that they
attend, in person or telephonically. This account also includes the
amortization of the premiums we pay for directors and officers insurance. 

                        We entered into
various insurance policies related to the construction of the Fairground water
system which cost approximately $12,900 during fiscal 2006. 

                        The above
increases are offset by the following decreases: 

                        Public entity
costs were $86,700, $141,000 and $35,500 for the fiscal years ended
August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Public entity costs
increased in fiscal 2005 due mainly to higher franchise taxes due to our
secondary offering in late fiscal 2004 which increased our shares outstanding
(combined with an increase in our authorized shares) and net assets. In
late fiscal 2005 we decreased the number of shares authorized and therefore our
franchise taxes decreased substantially. Public entity costs also includes the
annual listing costs paid to NASDAQ which increased as a result of additional
shares outstanding due to option exercises and other stock issuances. 

                        Decreases in
funding requests by the District. The expensed portions of the funding requests
paid to the District totaled $48,500, $79,800 and $63,600 for the fiscal years
ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Funding requests vary depending on
the water usage revenues generated and the level of operations at the District. 

26     

Interest income
totaled approximately $191,000, $149,600 and $42,700 in fiscal 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively, which is interest earned on the temporary investment of
capital in available-for-sale securities and interest accrued on the note
payable by the District. The increase from 2004 to 2005 was due primarily to
funds being invested in securities for all of 2005 versus a few months in 2004
offset by a lower prime rate, which is the base factor in the District s note
receivable. The increase from 2005 to 2006 is due to higher interest rates on
the temporary investment of funds and higher prime rate, both due to the
Federal Reserve raising rates consistently throughout fiscal 2006.  

  Interest expense  
related parties was approximately $7,100, $21,400 and $141,700 in fiscal 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively. The significant decrease from 2004 to 2006 was due
to repayments of related party debt. In late fiscal 2004 we retired $3.6
million of related party debt (which included accrued interest) and in
December 2005 we retired $558,800 of related party debt (which included accrued
interest). See Note 13 in the accompanying financial statements.  

  Interest expense  
non-related parties was approximately $19,300, $12,600 and $32,200 in fiscal
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase from fiscal 2005 to fiscal 2006
was due to increases in interest rates. The decrease from fiscal 2004 to fiscal
2005 was due to decreases in interest rates when the Federal Reserve was
lowering interest rates. In August 2006, we extinguished all remaining notes
payable with non-related parties, which is described further in Note 6 to the
accompanying financial statements. Based on this, as of August 31, 2006,
we longer have any interest accruing debt instruments.  

  Our net losses in
fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 were approximately $792,900, $1.05 million and $1.97
million, respectively. The decreases in the net losses for each year are mainly
attributable to the reasons noted above, and in fiscal 2006 we recorded a gain
on the extinguishment of CAA obligations and non-related party debt totaling
approximately $390,900.  

   Liquidity
and Capital Resources   

  Our working
capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, at August 31,
2006 was approximately $2.7 million, and we had cash and cash equivalents and
marketable securities on hand totaling $2.9 million at August 31, 2006. We
believe that at August 31, 2006, we have sufficient working capital to
fund our operations for the next year. However, there can be no assurance that
we will be successful in marketing the water from our primary water projects in
the near term. In the event increased revenues and cash flows from providing
water and wastewater services are not achieved, we may incur additional short
or long-term debt or seek to sell additional equity securities to generate working
capital to support our operations.  

  Development of the
water that we own, have rights to use, or may seek to acquire, will require
substantial capital investments. We anticipate that capital required for the
development of the water and wastewater systems will be financed through the
sale of water taps to developers and water delivery charges to users. A water
tap charge refers to a charge we impose to fund construction of Wholesale
Facilities and permit access to a water delivery system (e.g., a single-family
home s tap into our water system), and a water service charge refers to a water
customer s monthly water bill, generally charged per 1,000 gallons of water
delivered to the customer. We anticipate tap fees will be sufficient to
generate funds with which we can design and construct the necessary Wholesale
Facilities. However, once we receive tap fees from a developer, we are
contractually obligated to construct the Wholesale Facilities for the taps paid
for, even if our costs are not covered by the fees we receive. We can not
assure you that our source of cash will be sufficient to cover all our capital
costs.  

  On August 31,
2006, we finalized the Arkansas River Agreement whereby we purchased
approximately 60,000 acre-feet of Arkansas River water, real property and
certain other related assets. As consideration for these assets, in addition to
other consideration, we agreed to pay HP A M 10% of our tap fees received
on the sale of the next 40,000 water taps. We can not reasonably estimate how
much will ultimately be paid to HP A M but expect it to be in excess of $60
million. Tap participation payments are not payable to HP A M until we
receive tap fees. The recorded liability on our balance sheet is a non-interest
bearing liability and is more fully described in the  Critical
Accounting Policies   Tap Participation Fee  section above.  

27     

We are obligated
to pay the FLCC water assessment charges which are the charges assessed to the
FLCC shareholders for the upkeep and maintenance of the Fort Lyon Canal. Based on
historical information obtained from HP A M, we anticipate paying water
assessment charges of approximately $265,000 annually.  

  See  Contingent Obligations Payable Upon Default by HP A M  in
the  Critical Accounting Policies  section
above regarding our option to assume certain promissory notes in the event of
default by HP A M.  

  On August 3,
2005, we entered into the County Agreement to provide water service to the
Fairgrounds. Pursuant to the County Agreement, funding of $1.25 million for the
construction of the Special Facilities will come from the County and will be
provided as follows:  (i) an initial
payment of $397,000 (received in August 2005), and (ii) $848,000 paid over
ten years, which includes interest at 6%, which based on currently scheduled payments
will result in us receiving $286,000 in interest. Upon the delivery of a water
rights warranty deed by the County to us for approximately 336 acre-feet
of groundwater, the amount payable over ten years will be reduced by
approximately $240,000, which is the value of groundwater.  

  In accordance with SAB
104, upon completion of construction of the Fairgrounds facilities and the
initiation of water service to the Fairgrounds in July 2006, we began ratably
recognizing tap fee revenue as income. The tap fees received from the County
are being recognized in income over the estimate useful life of the constructed
assets, or 30 years. As of August 31, 2006, we recognized revenues of
approximately $1,200 representing one month of income.  

  On October 31, 2003,
and then on May 14, 2004, we entered into the Sky Ranch Agreements with the
developer of Sky Ranch. Pursuant to the Sky Ranch Agreements we will provide
water for all homes and buildings to be constructed at Sky Ranch, which could
go as high as 4,850 SFE units. Pursuant to the Sky Ranch Agreements, the
developer must purchase at least 400 water taps before occupancy of the first
home. The Sky Ranch Agreements permit the developer to add additional taps
annually, with at least 310 taps to be purchased each year after
construction begins. This schedule is designed to provide us with adequate
funds with which to construct the Wholesale Facilities needed to provide water
service to the areas being developed.  

  To the extent that water
service is provided using Export Water, we are required to pay a royalty to the
Land Board equal to 12% of the net revenue after deducting direct and indirect
costs, including a reasonable charge for overhead, associated with the
withdrawal, treatment and delivery of Export Water. If the developer exercises
its option to purchase Export Water, we expect to dedicate approximately 1,200
acre-feet, or approximately 10%, of our Export Water supply (which is about
4.2% of our overall Rangeview Water Supply) for the Sky Ranch project. We
estimate we will spend approximately $25.0 million for infrastructure costs
related to the development and delivery of water to the Sky Ranch development.  

  At August 31,
2006, we had outstanding debt to one related party totaling approximately
$26,500, all other interest bearing notes were repaid or extinguished during
fiscal 2006 as described in the accompanying financial statements. The
remaining note payable is due in October 2007 and does not accrue interest.  

   Operating
Activities   

  Operating
activities include revenues we receive from the sale of water and wastewater
services to our customers, costs incurred in the delivery of those services,
general and administrative expenses, and depletion/depreciation expenses.  

  Cash used in
operating activities was approximately $767,600, $818,300 and $527,600 for the
fiscal years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 respectively. Cash used
in operations decreased from fiscal 2005 to 2006 due to lower salaries
following the passing away of our former CEO and decreased health insurance
costs for the same reason and because we switched to a new insurance provider,
offset by an increase in management bonuses and increased board of director
fees, annual retainers, and insurance. The increase from fiscal 2004 to 2005
was mainly due to management bonuses, increased health care costs, higher board
fees and higher legal and accounting fees.  

  During fiscal
2006, 2005 and 2004 we accrued interest on the note receivable from the
District of approximately $21,500, $16,900 and $13,900, respectively. The
increase is caused by increases in interest rates. These amounts were offset by
decreases in accrued interest on notes payable of approximately $26,400,
$34,000 and $173,900 in   

28     

fiscal 2006, 2005
and 2004, respectively. The decreases in interest expense are due to the
extinguishment of $896,000 of principal and accrued interest in August 2006,
the repayment of $558,800 of notes payable to a related party in December 2005
and the repayment of $1.6 million of debt along with approximately $2.0 million
of accrued interest in fiscal 2004. Following the extinguishment of the debt in
August 2006, we no longer have any interest bearing notes outstanding so cash
required for operations during fiscal 2006 related to debt should remain lower
than in previous years. We will continue to provide domestic water and
wastewater service to customers in our service area and we will continue to
operate and maintain our water and wastewater systems with our own employees.  

   Investing Activities   

  We continue to invest in
the acquisition, development and maintenance of our water systems. On
August 31, 2006 we acquired the Arkansas River water, represented by the
shares in the FLCC and certain other real and personal property, in exchange
for equity and a Tap Participation Fee payable when we sell water taps. We
expended $173,100 related to legal and engineering costs associated with this
acquisition, which have been capitalized as part of the costs of the Acquired Assets
and have accrued an additional $77,800 of legal and engineering costs which
were paid in fiscal 2007.  

  During fiscal
2006, we invested approximately $2.4 million in the construction of the
facilities required to provide water service to the Fairgrounds which was
completed in July 2006. However, we anticipate certain expenditures related to
the construction to continue in fiscal 2007, which have been accrued as of
August 31, 2006.  

  We intend to
exercise our rights to acquire the next 40% of the Sky Ranch groundwater
pursuant to the agreement for the purchase of Denver Aquifer groundwater for
$100,000 in fiscal 2007 ($50,000 was due in fiscal 2006 and we are currently
working with the developer of Sky Ranch on finalizing this purchase but the
purchase was not recorded during fiscal 2006 because we had not received the
water rights deed as of year end nor have we received the deed as of the date
of this filing).  

  We also continue
to invest in legal and engineering fees associated with certain water rights,
and we continue to invest in the right-of-way permit fees to the Department of
Interior Bureau of Land Management and legal and engineering costs for our
Paradise Water Supply.  

  Cash provided by (used
in) investing activities for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 was approximately ($1.64)
million, $197,900 and ($4.1) million, respectively. As noted above the most
significant investments in fiscal 2006 related to the construction of the
Fairgrounds water system and costs incurred in connection with the acquisition
of the Arkansas River water. During fiscal 2005, we maintained temporary
investments of funds generated from the equity offering in fiscal 2004 and
capitalized approximately $404,500 of costs related to our water assets, which
included approximately $223,000 related to the start of construction of the
Fairgrounds water system. During fiscal 2005, we received option payments
totaling $60,400 from the developer of Sky Ranch related to the potential use
of Export Water. Fiscal 2004 included the initial investment of funds from the
equity offering and the receipt of $50,000 of Sky Ranch option fees. We
capitalize certain acquisition, legal, engineering and permitting costs
relating to the improvement of our water assets. As of August 31, 2006,
Sky Ranch option payments totaling $60,400 are past due. We are working with
the developer of Sky Ranch to collect these amounts but have no assurances as
to when the amounts will be paid.  

   Financing Activities   

  Cash provided by financing during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 was
approximately $807,500, $1.0 million and $5.7 million, respectively. In fiscal
2006 the main financing item was $1.18 million of cash received from persons
exercising outstanding options and warrants offset by $195,600 of debt payments
to retire debt with our former CEO and $174,900 paid to CAA holders related to
the County Agreement. Fiscal 2005 cash provided by financing activities
included the receipt of approximately $676,500 related to exercises of stock
options and the receipt of $397,200 of special facilities funding from the
County. Fiscal 2004 cash provided by financing activities included the receipt
of approximately $10.6 million from the sale of stock in the equity offering
and from the exercise of warrants. The equity offering proceeds were partially
offset by the repurchase of certain CAA interests for $2.8 million in cash and
repayment of $2.1 million of debt.  

29     

Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements   

  In December 2004, the
FASB issued SFAS 123(R) which is a revision of SFAS 123 and addresses the
accounting for employee stock options. We adopted SFAS 123(R) effective
September 1, 2005 as further described in   Note 2   Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies   in the accompanying financial
statements.  

  In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements . SFAS No. 157
establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value, establishes a
framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosure requirements
pertaining to fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for
financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2007 and interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not expect this
guidance to have an impact on our results of operations or financial position.  

  In June 2006, the FASB issued Financial Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48 ). FIN 48
clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing a
recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
implications of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a company s tax
return. The interpretation also provides guidance on de-recognition,
classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, and
disclosure of such positions. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2006. We are in the process of evaluating the impact
FIN 48 will have on our results of operations and financial position.  

  In May 2005, FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a
replacement of APB No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 . SFAS
No. 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods  financial
statements of a voluntary change in accounting principle unless it is
impracticable. APB Opinion No. 20  Accounting Changes,  previously
required that most voluntary changes in accounting principle be recognized by
including in net income of the period of the change the cumulative effect of
changing to the new accounting principle. This statement is effective for the
Company as of September 1, 2006 and the Company continues to evaluate the
impact the adoption of the standard will have on the Company s results of
operations, if any.  

  In November 2005, the
FASB issued SFAS 115-1 and SFAS 124-1,  The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to
Certain Investments  ( SFAS 115-1 and 124-1 ), which clarifies when
an investment is considered impaired, whether the impairment is
other-than-temporary, and the measurement of an impairment loss. It also includes
accounting considerations subsequent to the recognition of an
other-than-temporary impairment and requires certain related disclosures. SFAS
115-1 and 124-1 is required to be applied to reporting periods beginning after
December 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 115-1 and 124-1 had no impact on
the Company s financial statements.  

   Total
Contractual Cash Obligations   

(a)                Our
only operating lease is related to our office space. The lease is
month-to-month and is cancelable upon thirty days notice. Due to this not being
a long-term lease, payments can not be reasonably estimated beyond one year. 

30     

(b)               This
amount relates to final payments on construction contracts for the Fairgrounds
water system which were paid subsequent to our fiscal year end. 

  (c)                The
Participating interest liability is payable to the CAA holders upon the sale of
Export Water, and therefore, the timing of the payments is uncertain and not
reflected in the above table by period. 

  (d)               The
Tap Participation fees are payable to HP A M when we sell water taps and
therefore the timing of the payments is uncertain and not reflected in the
above table by period. 

  (e)                The
contingent obligations payable upon default by HP A M, although recorded as
a liability in the accompanying balance sheet, are the responsibility of HP
A M. Our liability arises if HP A M defaults on its promissory notes
and we choose to meet their obligations. Because we can not reasonably estimate
when or if HP A M will default on the promissory notes, and therefore can
not reasonably estimate when, or if, we will choose to expend our current
assets to cure HP A M s default, we can not estimate the cash requirements
by period on the Company related to these promissory notes. 

   7A.               Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk      

   General.  
Pure Cycle is exposed to market risks that may impact the  Balance Sheets ,  Statements of Operations , and  Statements of Cash Flows  due primarily to changing interest
rates and changes in tap fees and usage rates at our rate based districts.
Additionally, due to the promissory notes on the land we acquired which we may
elect to pay in the event of default by HP A M, we are subject to market
risks impacting the ability of HP A M to make the required payments. The
following discussion provides additional information regarding these market
risks. 

   Interest Rates.  
The primary objective for our investment activities is to preserve principal
while maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. This is
accomplished by investing in diversified short-term investments, consisting
primarily of United States Treasury Obligations and other investment grade debt
securities. As of August 31, 2006, the fair value of our investments was
approximately $2.5 million with maturity dates through December 2007. A
hypothetical 50 basis point change in interest rates would not result in a
material decrease or increase in the fair value of our available-for-sale
securities. We have no investments denominated in foreign country currencies
and therefore our investments are not subject to foreign currency exchange
risk. 

   Rates and Charges.  
Our rates and charges are based on the average of our rate based districts and
could vary dramatically from year to year. The rates charged by our rate based
districts might not provide us sufficient funds to support our operations and
capital required to fund construction activities. Based on the increases in
taps fees and usage charges at our rate based districts over the last several
years as noted in Table 1 above, we expect rates and charges to continue to be
sufficient to meet our operational and construction needs. 

   Promissory Notes  :
We, at our sole discretion, have the option, in the event of default on
promissory notes by HP A M, to assume HP A M s liability for said
promissory notes which are secured by deeds of trust on the land we acquired
from HP A M. To mitigate the risk of loss to the Company, we have the
ability to recover the costs we might incur on the promissory notes by
foreclosing on Pure Cycle common stock held in escrow that is owned by HP
A M and we can reduce the Tap Participation Fees payable to HP A M by
twice the amount of promissory notes in default. 

31  

Item 8.                              Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data   

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firms   

Balance Sheets   

Statements
  of Operations   

Statements of Stockholders  Equity   

Statements of Cash Flows   

Notes
  to Financial Statements   

Supplemental Data: Selected Quarterly Financial
  Information   

32  

Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm     

The Board of Directors  

  Pure Cycle Corporation:  

  We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Pure Cycle
Corporation (the  Company ) as of August 31, 2006 and 2005 and the related
statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for the years
then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.  

  We conducted
our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. 
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our
opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Pure Cycle Corporation at August 31, 2006
and 2005, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
years then ended ,  in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  

  We also have
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Pure Cycle Corporation s
internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2006, based on
criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and our
report dated November 10, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management s
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
and an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting because of the existence of a material weakness.  

  /s/ Anton
Collins Mitchell LLP  

  Denver, Colorado  

  November 10, 2006  

33     

Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm  

The Board of Directors  

  Pure Cycle Corporation:  

We have audited
management s assessment, included in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,
that    Pure Cycle
Corporation (the  Company )   did not maintain effective
internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2006, because of the
effects of the material weakness whereby  t he Company has inadequate controls over the
process for the identification and implementation of the proper accounting for certain
transactions which resulted in material audit adjustments, based on criteria
established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO).  The Company s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management s
assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit. 

We conducted our audit in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

A company s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.  

A material weakness is a
control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in
more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or
interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The following
material weakness has been identified and included in management s assessment.
The Company s closing process failed to identify all necessary accounting
adjustments. This material weakness was considered in determining the nature,
timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the 2006 financial
statements, and this report does not affect our report dated November 10, 2006
on those financial statements.  

In our opinion,
management s assessment that the Company did not maintains effective internal
control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2006, is fairly stated, in
all material respects, based on criteria established in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Also, in our opinion, because
of the effect of the material weakness described above on the achievement of
the objectives of the control criteria, the Company has not maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2006,
based on criteria established in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  

We do not express an opinion or any
other form of assurance on management s statement referring to the Company s
formal remediation plan, or the implementation thereof.  

/s/ Anton Collins Mitchell LLP  

  Denver, Colorado  

  November 10, 2006  

34     

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

  The Board of Directors and Stockholders  

  Pure Cycle Corporation:  

  We have audited the
accompanying statements of operations, stockholders  equity and comprehensive
loss, and cash flows for Pure Cycle Corporation (the Company) for the
year ended August 31, 2004.  These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audit.  

  We conducted our audit in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our opinion, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the results of Pure Cycle Corporations  operations and their cash
flows for the year ended August 31, 2004, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.  

    KPMG LLP  

  Denver, Colorado  

  October 29, 2004  

35     

PURE CYCLE CORPORATION  

  BALANCE SHEETS    

See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements  

36     

PURE CYCLE CORPORATION  

  STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS    

See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements  

37     

PURE CYCLE CORPORATION 
STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY   
YEARS ENDED AUGUST 31, 2006, 2005 AND 2004  

See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements  

38     

PURE CYCLE CORPORATION 
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS    

See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements  

39  

PURE
CYCLE CORPORATION   

   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
AUGUST 31, 2006, 2005 AND 2004   

   NOTE 1   ORGANIZATION   

    Description
of Business    .  Pure Cycle
Corporation (the  Company ) was incorporated in Delaware in 1976. The
Company owns water assets located in the Denver, Colorado metropolitan area, in
the Arkansas River valley and on the western slope of Colorado. The Company is
currently using its water assets located in the Denver metropolitan area to
provide water and wastewater services to customers located in and around its
service area. The Company operates water and wastewater systems and provides
services which include the design and construction of the systems as well as
the operation and maintenance of the systems. The Company s main focus is to
provide water and wastewater service to customers within its service area and
other areas throughout the Denver metropolitan area and the Front Range of
Colorado. 

  The Company believes that
at August 31, 2006, it has sufficient working capital and financing
sources to fund its operations for at least the next year. However, there can
be no assurances that the Company will be successful in marketing the water
from its primary water projects on terms that are acceptable to the Company.
The Company s ability to ultimately realize its investment in its primary water
projects is dependent on its ability to successfully market the water, or in
the event it is unsuccessful, to sell the underlying water assets. In the event
increased sales are not achieved, the Company may incur additional short or
long-term debt or seek to sell additional shares of the Company s common or
preferred stock, as deemed necessary by the Company, to generate sufficient
working capital.  

   NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT
ACCOUNTING POLICIES   

    Revenue Recognition.    The
Company generates revenues mainly from three sources; (i) water and
wastewater tap fees, (ii) construction fees, and (iii) monthly water
usage fees and wastewater service fees. Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No.
00-21  Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables  ( EITF
00-21 ), governs how to identify when goods or services, or both, that are
separately delivered but included in a single sales arrangement should be
accounted for separately. Based on the criteria of EITF 00-21, the Company accounts
for each of the items addressed in its service agreements separately. 

  Proceeds from tap fees
and construction fees are deferred upon receipt and recognized in income based
on whether or not the Company owns the infrastructure constructed with the proceeds.
Tap fees and construction fees derived from agreements in which the customer
will own the assets constructed with the fees (for example the assets
constructed for use on the Lowry Range Property pursuant to the Company s
service agreement with the Rangeview Metropolitan District (the  District )) are
recognized in accordance with Statement of Position 81-1  Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and
Certain Production-Type Contracts , whereby the Company recognizes
revenue and costs of construction using the percentage-of-completion method.
Tap fees and construction fees derived from agreements for which the Company
will own the infrastructure are recognized in accordance with Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 104  Revenue Recognition ( SAB
104 ),  whereby the up-front fees are recognized ratably over the estimated
service life of the facilities constructed, starting at completion of
construction.  

  The Company recognizes
water usage revenues upon delivering water to customers. The Company recognizes
wastewater processing revenues monthly based on flat fees assessed per single
family equivalent ( SFE ) unit served. An SFE is defined in the Company s
Rules and Regulations as the amount of water required each year by a family of
four persons living in a single family house on a standard sized lot which is
equivalent to the use of approximately 0.4 acre-feet of water per year.  

  Costs to construct  Wholesale
Facilities  and  Special Facilities  are capitalized as incurred, including
interest. If the costs meet the Company s capitalization criteria, the
facilities are depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Costs of
delivering water and providing wastewater service to customers are recognized
as incurred.  

  The Company recognized
approximately $1,200 of tap fee revenue in fiscal 2006 related to the Agreement
for Water Services (the  County Agreement ) signed with Arapahoe County
(the  County ) in August 2005. The Wholesale Facilities required to
provide water service to the new Arapahoe County Fairgrounds (the  Fairgrounds ) were

40     

completed in fiscal 2006
in time for the Fairgrounds opening date on July 21, 2006. In accordance with
SAB 104  and Accounting Principles
Generally Accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ), the Company began
recognizing these tap fees ratably over the estimated service period upon
completion of the Wholesale Facilities. The tap fees to be recognized over this
period are net of the royalty payments to the State of Colorado Board of Land
Commissioners (the  Land Board ) and amounts paid to third parties
pursuant to the Comprehensive Amendment Agreement No. 1 (the  CAA ) as
further described in Note 4.  

  The Company recognized
approximately $3,500 of Special Facilities funding as revenue during the year
ended August 31, 2006, which is the ratable portion of the Special
Facilities funding paid and payable by the County as more fully described in
Note 3.  

  No tap fees or
construction revenues were recognized during the years ended August 31,
2005 or 2004.  

  As of August 31,
2006, the Company has deferred recognition of approximately $1.7 million of tap
fee and construction fee revenue which will be recognized as revenue ratably
over the estimated life of the assets constructed with the construction proceeds.  

    Use of Estimates.    The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date
of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 

    Cash and Cash Equivalents.    Cash
and cash equivalents include all highly liquid debt and equity instruments with
original maturities of three months or less. The Company s cash equivalents are
comprised of money market funds, investments in debt securities and investments
in commercial paper. As of August 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company has no
investments in equity instruments. 

    Export Water
Proceeds to be Remitted to Escrow Agent.    The Export Water Proceeds to be remitted to
Escrow Agent account was comprised of the following at August 31, 2005:
(i) $159,890 of proceeds received by the Company from the County for
Export Water sales (see Notes 3 and 4), that were to be remitted to an
escrow agent and paid to external parties as required by the CAA, and
(ii) $15,000 of proceeds received by the Company from Sky Ranch (see
Notes 3 and 4) that were to be remitted to an escrow agent and paid
to external parties as required by the CAA. Both amounts were remitted to the
escrow agent and subsequently the CAA holders in September 2005 and therefore
these balances are zero at August 31, 2006. 

    Financial
Instruments     .   Financial
instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit
risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and investments in marketable
securities. The Company places its cash equivalents and investments with a high
credit-quality financial institution. At various times throughout fiscal 2006,
cash deposits have exceeded federally insured limits. The Company invests its
excess cash primarily in money market instruments, commercial paper
obligations, corporate bonds and US government treasury obligations. To date,
the Company has not experienced significant losses on any of these investments. 

    Cash Flows.    During
fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, the Company paid $0, $0 and
approximately $486,000 of interest. See Notes 6 and 13 regarding extinguishment
of debt during fiscal 2006. No cash was paid for income taxes in fiscal 2006,
2005 or 2004. 

    Marketable
Securities     .   Management
determines the appropriate classification of its investments in debt and equity
securities at the time of purchase and reevaluates such determinations each
reporting period. Debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the
Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity.
The Company had no investments classified as held-to-maturity at
August 31, 2006 or 2005. 

  Debt securities for which
the Company does not have the positive intent or ability to hold to maturity
are classified as available-for-sale, along with any investments in equity
securities. Securities classified as available-for-sale are marked-to-market at
each reporting period. Changes in value on such securities are recorded as a
component of   Accumulated  comprehensive income.  The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification
method.  

41     

The following is a
summary of marketable securities at August 31, 2006:  

The following is a
summary of marketable securities at August 31, 2005:  

For the years ended
August 31, 2006 and 2004 gross realized gains totaled approximately
$10,400 and $12,000, respectively. For the year ended August 31, 2005
gross realized losses totaled approximately $15,600. The investments that are
in a net loss position for greater than twelve months are not deemed to be
other than temporary losses based on the nature of the corporate bond markets,
the significant fluctuations that have occurred in the markets over the past
several years and the limited realized losses the Company has experienced. The
Company actively monitors the performance of its investments and adopted a new
investment policy in fiscal 2005 to more closely align its investment portfolio
with its expected capital requirements. Losses incurred during 2005 were the
result of the Company shortening its average maturity in its investment
portfolio to allow it more flexibility regarding anticipated capital needs in
the short-term and to allow it to capitalize on interest rates that have
continued to rise since the equity offering in 2004 when the majority of the
investments were made.  

  The Company s marketable
securities mature at various dates through December 2007. However, these
securities represent the temporary investment of capital and it is not
managements  intent to hold these securities until maturity.  

    Accounts
receivable.     The Company records accounts receivable net
of allowances for uncollectible accounts (none as of August 31, 2006 or 2005).
Any allowance for uncollectible accounts would be determined based on a review
of past due accounts. 

    Fair value of financial instruments.     The carrying value of all financial
instruments potentially subject to valuation risk (principally consisting of cash,
cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and notes receivable)
approximates fair value based upon prevailing interest rates available to the
Company.  

    Long-Lived
Assets.    The Company reviews its long-lived assets for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to
be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset
to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the eventual
use of the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the  

42     

impairment to be
recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets
exceed the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at
the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. The Company
believes there are no impairments in the carrying amounts of its long-lived
assets at August 31, 2006.  

    Water
and Wastewater Systems.    The Company capitalizes design
and construction costs related to construction activities and it capitalizes
certain legal, engineering and permitting costs relating to the adjudication
and improvement of its water assets. For the year ended August 31, 2006,
the Company also capitalized legal and engineering costs incurred as a result
of the Arkansas River water acquisition. 

    Depletion and Depreciation of
Water Assets.    The
Company depletes its water assets that are being utilized on the basis of units
produced divided by the total volume of water adjudicated in the water decrees.
Water systems are depreciated on a straight line basis over their estimated
useful lives of 30 years. 

    Share-based Compensation.    Effective
September 1, 2005, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based
Payment , ( SFAS 123(R) ) which requires the measurement and
recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to
employees and directors, including employee stock options, based on estimated
fair values. SFAS 123(R) supersedes the Company s previous accounting
under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB
25 ) for periods beginning on or after September 1, 2005. In March 2005,
the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin
No. 107 ( SAB 107 ) relating to SFAS 123(R). The Company has applied
the provisions of SAB 107 in its adoption of SFAS 123(R). 

  The Company
adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method,
which requires the application of the accounting standard as of September 1,
2005, the first day of the Company s fiscal 2006. In accordance with the
modified prospective transition method, the Company s financial statements for
periods prior to fiscal 2006 have not been restated to reflect, and do not
include, the impact of SFAS 123(R). Stock-based compensation expense recognized
under SFAS 123(R) for the year ended August 31, 2006, was approximately
$209,600.  

  SFAS
123(R) requires companies to estimate the fair value of share-based
payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model. The value of
the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as a
period expense over the requisite service period in the statement of
operations. Stock-based compensation expense recognized during the period is
based on the value of the portion of share-based payment awards that is
ultimately expected to vest during the period. Stock-based compensation expense
recognized in the Company s statements of operations for the year ended
August 31, 2006 included compensation expense for share-based payment
awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of, September 1, 2005, based on
the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions
of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS
123 ), and compensation expense for the share-based payment awards granted
subsequent to September 1, 2005 based on the grant date fair value estimated in
accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). In accordance with SFAS
123(R) stock-based compensation expense recognized in the statements of
operations for the year ended August 31, 2006 is based on awards
ultimately expected to vest. The Company does not expect any forfeitures of its
prior option grants and therefore the compensation expense has not been reduced
for estimated forfeitures. No options were forfeited by option holders during
the three years ended August 31, 2006. SFAS 123(R) requires
forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised if necessary, in
subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. In the
Company s pro forma information required under SFAS 123 for the periods prior
to fiscal 2006 presented below, the Company accounted for forfeitures as they
occurred. The Company attributes the value of stock-based compensation to
expense using the straight-line single option method for options granted prior
and subsequent to September 1, 2005.  

  Prior to the adoption of
SFAS 123(R), the Company accounted for stock-based awards to employees and
directors using the intrinsic value method in accordance with APB 25 as allowed
under SFAS 123. Under the intrinsic value method, no stock-based compensation
expense had been recognized in the Company s statements of operations for the
years ended August 31, 2005 and 2004. If the Company had recognized
stock-based compensation expense   

43     

pursuant
to SFAS 123 for the years ended August 31, 2005 and 2004 in its statements
of operations, the results would have been as follows:  

The Company uses
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model ( Black-Scholes model ) for the pro
forma information required under SFAS 123 as well as the compensation expense
recorded pursuant to SFAS 123(R). The Company s determination of the estimated
fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an
option-pricing model is affected by the following variables and assumptions:  

                        The grant date
exercise price   which is the closing market price of the Company s common
stock on the date of grant; 

                        Estimated option
lives   based on historical experience with existing option holders; 

                        Estimated
dividend rates   based on historical and anticipated dividends over the life of
the option; 

                        Life of the
option   pursuant to the 2004 Incentive Plan, all option grants have a 10 year
life; 

                        Risk-free
interest rates  with maturities that approximate the expected life of the
options granted; 

                        Calculated stock
price volatility   calculated over the expected life of the options granted,
which is calculated based on the weekly closing price of the Company s common
stock over a period equal to the expected life of the option;  and 

                        Option exercise
behaviors   based on actual and projected employee stock option exercises and
forfeitures. 

  In August 2006,
the Company granted its new director (see Note 3 regarding Arkansas River
water acquisition) an option to purchase 5,000 shares of the Company s
common stock pursuant to the 2004 Incentive Plan. The option vests 50% on the
first anniversary date of the grant and 50% on the second anniversary date of
the grant. The Company calculated the fair value of these options pursuant to
SFAS 123(R) at approximately $36,000 using the Black-Scholes model with
the following variables: exercise price of $8.27; estimated option life of
eight years; estimated dividend rate of 0%; weighted average risk-free interest
rate of 4.875%; stock price volatility of 101.6%; and an estimated forfeiture
rate of 0%. The $36,000 of stock-based compensation expense calculated pursuant
to SFAS 123(R) will be expensed monthly over the vesting period.  

  Also in August
2006, the Company granted an employee an option to purchase 30,000 shares
of the Company s common stock pursuant to the 2004 Incentive Plan. The option
vests one-third on each of the next three anniversary dates of the grant. The
Company calculated the fair value of these options pursuant to SFAS
123(R) at approximately $232,000 using the Black-Scholes model with the
following variables: exercise price of $8.84; estimated option life of eight
years; estimated dividend rate of 0%; weighted average risk-free interest rate
of 4.875%; stock price volatility of 101.5%; and an estimated forfeiture rate
of 0%. The $232,000 of stock-based compensation expense calculated pursuant to
SFAS 123(R) will be expensed monthly over the vesting period.  

  In April 2006 the
Company granted four of its directors options to purchase a combined 10,000
shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to the 2004 Incentive Plan. The
options vest one year from the date of grant and   

44     

expire ten years
from the date of grant. The Company calculated the fair value of these options
pursuant to SFAS 123(R) at approximately $116,000 using the Black-Scholes
model with the following variables: weighted average exercise price of $13.25;
estimated option lives of eight years; estimated dividend rate of 0%; weighted
average risk-free interest rate of 4.93%; weighted average stock price
volatility of 101.8%; and an estimated forfeiture rate of 0%. The $116,000 of
stock-based compensation expense calculated pursuant to SFAS 123(R) will
be expensed monthly over the vesting period.  

  On November 10,
2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued FASB Staff
Position No. FAS 123(R)-3  Transition
Election Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards .
The Company has adopted the alternative transition method provided in the FASB
Staff Position for calculating the tax effects of stock-based compensation
pursuant to SFAS 123(R). The alternative transition method includes simplified
methods to establish the beginning balance of the additional paid-in capital
pool ( APIC pool ) related to the tax effects of employee stock-based
compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the APIC pool and
statements of cash flows of the tax effects of employee stock-based
compensation awards that are outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R). Because
the Company has a full valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets, the
granting and exercise of stock options during the year ended August 31,
2006 has no impact on the income tax provision.  

    Income Taxes.    Income
taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences
attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating
loss and tax credit carryovers. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the
years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or
settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax
rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. 

    Accumulated
Comprehensive Income (Loss)    .  In addition to
net loss, comprehensive income (loss) includes the cumulative
unrecognized changes in the fair value of marketable securities that are
classified as available-for-sale. 

    Reverse Stock Split    .  Effective April 26, 2004, stockholders approved a
ten-for-one reverse stock split. Subsequent to the approval, every ten shares
of the Company s common stock were replaced with one share of its common stock.
Accordingly, all share and per share amounts for all periods presented have
been restated to reflect the reverse split. 

    Loss per Common Share.    Loss
per common share is computed by dividing net loss by the weighted average
number of shares outstanding during each period. Common stock options and
warrants aggregating 661,428, 1,523,391 and 2,234,305 common share equivalents
as of August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, have been excluded from
the calculation of loss per common share as their effect is anti-dilutive. 

    Reclassifications.    Certain
amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to
conform with the current year presentation. 

45     

NOTE 3   WATER, WATER SYSTEMS AND SERVICE
AGREEMENTS   

  The Company s water and water systems consist of the
following costs and accumulated depreciation and depletion as of
August 31:  

Depletion and
Depreciation.    The
Company recorded approximately $900, $800 and $800 of depletion related to the
Rangeview Water Supply in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and
approximately $16,700, $5,600 and $4,900 of depreciation related to the
Rangeview Water Systems and Fairgrounds water systems in fiscal 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. No depletion is taken against the Paradise Water Supply or
Sky Ranch Water Supply because these assets have not been placed into service
as of August 31, 2006 and no depreciation or depletion was taken against
the assets acquired in the Arkansas River Valley because they were acquired on
August 31, 2006 and therefore not held by the Company during fiscal 2006. 

    Acquisition of the Arkansas River
Valley Assets.    Effective May 10, 2006, the Company
entered into the Asset Purchase Agreement (the  Arkansas River Agreement ) with
High Plains A M, LLC (the  HP A M ) to acquire the following
assets from HP A M (i) senior water interests in the Arkansas River
and its tributaries represented by shares of the Fort Lyon Canal Company ( FLCC ) (collectively
these are referred to as the  Water Rights ), (ii) certain real property
located in Bent, Otero and Prowers counties, Colorado associated with the Water
Rights (the  Properties ) (certain of the Properties are subject to
mortgages maintained by HP A M as further described below), and
(iii) certain contract rights, tangible personal property, mineral rights,
and other water interests related to the Water Rights and Properties
(collectively the Water Rights, Properties, and related assets are referred to
as the  Acquired Assets ). The Company acquired the Water Rights to enhance and
better balance its water portfolio by increasing its rights to senior surface
water which is being demanded by cities and municipalities granting land use
approvals. The Properties and other non-water assets were acquired because the
rights to the Arkansas River water the Company seeks to transfer for use in the
Denver market are based on the quantity of water historically used to irrigate
crops grown on the Properties. 

  The Company and HP A M consummated the asset acquisition pursuant
to the Arkansas River Agreement on August 31, 2006 after the due diligence
period provided for in the Arkansas River Agreement. As consideration for the
Acquired Assets, on August 31, 2006, the Company issued HP
A M 3,000,000 shares of Pure Cycle common stock and granted HP A M
the right to receive ten percent (10%) of the Company s gross proceeds, or
the equivalent thereof, from the future sale of the next 40,000 water taps
(the  Tap Participation Fee ) (the 40,000 figure was reduced to 39,470 at the
August 31, 2006 closing date because HP A M sold certain assets and properties
not related to the FLCC shares which were subject to the Arkansas River
Agreement and were available for credits against the Tap Participation Fee).  The Tap Participation Fee will be due and
payable once the Company has sold a water tap and received the consideration
due for such water tap. After five years, under circumstances defined in the
Arkansas River Agreement, the Tap Participation Fee can increase to 20% and the
number of water taps subject to the Tap Participation Fee would be correspondingly
reduced by half. The entire Tap Participation Fee is subject to acceleration in
the event of a   

46     

merger, reorganization, sale of substantially all assets, or similar
transactions and in the event of bankruptcy and insolvency events.  

  The shares in the FLCC represent the amount of water the Company owns
in the Fort Lyon Canal. The FLCC is a non-profit mutual ditch company that is
responsible for the maintenance and operation of the Fort Lyon Canal. The real
property is comprised of approximately 80 parcels of real estate encompassing
approximately 17,500 acres. Pursuant to the Arkansas River Agreement, HP
A M retained the obligation to manage operating leases on the Properties
which permit lessees to farm the Properties and use the Water Rights for
irrigation purposes in return for defined lease payments. Upon closing, the
Company entered into a management agreement with HP A M as described below,
and HP A M will manage these leases for a period of five years.  

  Certain of the properties
the Company acquired are subject to outstanding promissory notes with principal
and accrued interest totaling approximately $14.6 million, which are secured by
deeds of trust on the Properties acquired. The Company did not assume any of
these promissory notes and is not responsible for making any of the required
payments under these notes, this responsibility remained solely with HP
A M. In the event of default by HP A M, at the Company s sole
discretion, the Company has the option to assume any of the notes in default
and make payments pursuant to the notes. If HP A M defaults on the
promissory notes, the Company can foreclose on a defined amount of stock issued
to HP A M being held in escrow and reduce the Tap Participation Fee by two
times the amount of notes defaulted on by HP A M. Pursuant to FASB
Interpretation No. 45  Guarantor s Accounting and
Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of
Indebtedness of Others (as amended) , because the Company would lose
a portion of the land and water rights if the defaulted notes are not cured,
the Company s option to assume HP A M s obligations under any defaulted
promissory notes is considered an indirect guarantee of debt and thus the
outstanding balance of the promissory notes has been reflected as a liability
in the accompanying balance sheet. Additionally, the Company has recorded a
receivable in its equity section from HP A M for the same amount as the
liability, as the Company would recover these amounts in stock and Tap
Participation Fee interests from HP A M. The recorded liability and the
contra-equity receivable will be reduced as HP A M make its scheduled
payments to the note holders.  

  The Arkansas River
Agreement permits HP A M to nominate a designated director to be elected to
on the Company s board of directors following the closing. Pursuant to this
provision Mark Campbell was appointed to the board of directors on
August 31, 2006. In accordance with the Company s 2004 Equity Incentive
Plan, the Company issued Mr. Campbell an option to purchase 5,000 shares of the
Company s common stock and paid Mr. Campbell his $10,000 board fee.  

  Upon the closing, the Company and HP A M also entered into the
following agreements, forms of which are included as exhibits to the Arkansas
River Agreement (the Arkansas River Agreement and related Exhibits were filed
as an attachment to a Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on May 16, 2006):  

                        A
pledge agreement related to the promissory notes, whereby HP A M pledged,
transferred, assigned and granted to the Company a security interest in and to
(a) 1,500,000 shares of Pure Cycle common stock, (b) all shares of
Pure Cycle Common Stock hereafter issued to HP A M by means of any dividend
or distribution in respect of the shares pledged hereunder (together with the
shares identified in (a), the  Pledged Shares ), (c) the certificates
representing the Pledged Shares, and (d) all rights to money or property
which HP A M now has or hereafter acquires in respect of the Pledged
Shares; 

                        A
pledge agreement, whereby the Company pledged to HP A M: (i) one-half
of the shares of FLCC purchased by the Company, (ii) all shares of FLCC
hereafter issued to the Company by means of any dividend or distribution in
respect of the shares pledged hereunder (together with the shares identified in
(i), the  Company s Pledged Shares ), (iii) the certificates representing
the Company s Pledged Shares, (iv) the Properties associated with the
water represented by the Company s Pledged Shares, and (v) all rights to
money or property which the Company now has or hereafter acquires in respect of
the Company s Pledged Shares; 

47     

A
five year property management agreement with HP A M, pursuant to which, HP
A M holds the right to pursue leasing of the Properties and the Water Rights
to interested parties. All lease income associated with leasing the Properties
and Water Rights, together with all costs associated with these activities
including but not limited to, overhead obligations, real property taxes, and
personnel costs, are the sole opportunity and obligation of HP A  

                        A
non-solicitation agreement with each of the owners of HP A M, pursuant to
which each of the named parties agreed, for three years (i) not to solicit
the Company s customers or potential customers to provide water in the Company s
service areas or potential service areas, (ii) not to solicit employees of
the Company, (iii) not to engage in certain activities competitive with
the Company and (iv) not to engage in the purchase of water or water
rights without first offering such water or water rights to the Company; 

                        A
registration rights agreement, pursuant to which the Company granted HP A M
one demand right to register 750,000 shares of Pure Cycle common stock and
piggyback rights to register an additional 750,000 shares of Pure Cycle common
stock; and 

                        A
voting agreement, pursuant to which Mr. Mark Harding, the Company s President,
agrees to vote shares of Pure Cycle common stock owned by him for HP A M s
designated board member. 

  The Arkansas River
Agreement has been accounted for in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 141  Business Combinations 
( SFAS 141 ). The cost of the acquisition was allocated to the Acquired Assets
based on estimates of each asset s, or group of asset s, respective fair value.
SFAS 141 requires assets to be recorded at their fair values as determined by
the value of the consideration paid or the value of the assets acquired,
whichever is more reliable. Because the consideration paid includes a
contingent portion that can not be reasonably estimated due to the nature of
the payments, the Company determined that the value of the Acquired Assets was
a more reasonable measure than the consideration paid. Therefore, the fair
value of the Water Rights was determined by an independent third party
appraisal and the remaining assets were valued by internal studies. The
difference between the fair values of the Acquired Assets and the value of the
equity consideration is recorded as the  Tap Participation Fee
Payable to High Plains A M, LLC  on the accompanying balance
sheet. This amount is non-interest bearing and payments are only due if and
when the Company sells water taps. The Tap Participation Fee ultimately paid to
HP A M could vary from the amount of the recorded liability. Per SFAS 141,
any differences that arise between the actual payments made under the
contingent consideration portion of the Arkansas River Agreement and the
recorded liability will be accounted for separately at the time this occurs.
Pursuant to Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 99-12  Determination
of the Measurement Date for the Market Price of Acquirer Securities Issued in a
Purchase Business Combination,  the equity consideration was valued
based on the average closing price of the Company s common stock two days
before and after May 10, 2006, which is the effective date of the Arkansas
River Agreement and the date the Arkansas River Agreement was announced.  

  Due to the timing
of the signing of the Arkansas River Agreement and the complexities associated
with the valuation of the Acquired Assets, the Company has not finalized its
internal studies of the fair value of the Acquired Assets. Therefore, the
allocation of the purchase price is based on preliminary data and could change
when final evaluations of the Acquired Assets are completed.  

48     

The following table presents the allocation of the acquisition costs,
including professional fees and other costs related to the acquisition, to the
assets acquired based on their fair values:  

The amounts recorded to other assets consists of professional fees and
other acquisition related costs, of which $77,800 of these fees were accrued in
 accrued liabilities  on the accompanying
balance sheet as of August 31, 2006, and were paid subsequent to
August 31, 2006. The Company assigned no value to the management agreement
based on the fact that the Company does not receive any of the lease payments
and is not responsible for any of the operating expenses associated with the
leases. The leases subject to the property management agreement expire at
various dates through 2010, which is earlier than the expiration date of the
management agreement. The Company has not completed its analysis on the fair
value of the non-solicitation agreement but expects it to be immaterial to the
financial statements.  

  The Company
assumed title to the current farm leases which are subject to the property
management agreement effective August 31, 2006. However, pursuant to the
Arkansas River Agreement, HP A M will manage the leases for a period of
five years and will receive all lease payments from the lessees as a management
fee. Because the Company does not have the risk of loss associated with the
leases (HP A M s management fee is equal to the lease income for the next
five years, and contractually HP A M has the risk of loss on the leases),
in accordance with EITF Issue No. 99-19  Reporting Revenue Gross as
Principal versus Net as an Agent ( EITF 99-19 ) , the lease income
and management fees will be reflected on a net revenue basis throughout the
term of the management agreement.  

49  

The following
unaudited pro forma results of operations for the Arkansas River water and
related assets have been prepared as if the Company had acquired such assets at
September 1, 2004 (all amounts are approximate and do not include historical
information of the Company):  

The pro forma
information is presented for informational purposes only and is not necessarily
indicative of the results of operations that actually would have been achieved
had the asset acquisition been consummated at that time, nor is the information
intended to be a projection of future results. The Company is still evaluating
how this asset acquisition will impact its financial statements in the future.
The pro forma information includes approximate amounts for depreciation expense
based on the fair values recorded by the Company for the buildings and
equipment as of the acquisition date, which are preliminary and subject to
change, and interest expenses paid by HP A M on the promissory notes for the
periods presented. The Company will reflect the revenues and expense associated
with the leases on a net revenue basis in accordance with EITF 99-19 as
described above. The Company is obligated to pay FLCC water assessment charges
which are the charges assessed to the FLCC shareholders for the upkeep and
maintenance of the Fort Lyon Canal. Based on historical information obtained
from HP A M, the Company anticipates paying water assessment charges of approximately
$265,000 annually.  

  In order to
utilize the Arkansas River water in the Company s service areas, the Company
will be required to convert this water to municipal and industrial uses. Change
of water use must be done through the Colorado water courts and several
conditions must be present prior to the water court granting an application for
transfer of a water right. A transfer case would be expected to include the
following provisions: (i) a provision of anti-speculation in which the
applicant must have contractual obligations to provide water service to
customers prior to the water court ruling on the transfer of a water right,
(ii) the applicant can only transfer the  consumptive use  portion of its
water rights (the Company expects to face opposition to any consumptive use
calculation of the historic agricultural uses of its water),
(iii) applicants likely would be required to mitigate the loss of tax base
in the basin of origin, (iv) applicants would likely have re-vegetation
requirements requiring them to restore irrigated soils to non-irrigated, and
(v) applicants would be required to meet water quality measures which
would be included in the cost of transferring the water rights. The Company
will likely need to construct a pipeline, which would be approximately 150
miles long and cost in excess of $400 million, in order to transport the
Arkansas River water to its potential customers along the Front Range. The cost
for this pipeline is expected to be funded through tap sales utilizing the
Company s existing Denver based assets, but there can be no assurances that the
Company will be able to generate the funds necessary to complete this without
additional debt or equity offerings.  

  The Acquired
Assets will be depleted and depreciated consistent with the Company s depletion
and depreciation policies.  

    Rangeview Water Supply and Water
System.    The Rangeview Water Supply and water system costs
represent the costs of assets acquired or facilities constructed to extend
water services to customers located on and off the Lowry Range Property. The
recorded costs of the Rangeview Water Supply includes payments to the sellers of the  

50     

Rangeview Water Supply, design
and construction costs and certain direct costs relating to improvements to the
asset including legal and engineering fees.  

  The Company acquired the Rangeview Water Supply
beginning in 1996 when it (i) entered into the Agreement for Sale of
Export Water with the District, a quasi-municipal political subdivision of the
State of Colorado; (ii) the District entered into the Amended and Restated
Lease Agreement with the State of Colorado Board of Land Commissioners (the  Land
Board ), which owns the Lowry Range Property; and (iii) entered into the
Service Agreement with the District for the provision of water service to the
Lowry Range Property (collectively these agreements are referred to as the  Rangeview
Water Agreements ).  

  Pursuant to the Rangeview
Water Agreements, the Company will design, construct, operate and maintain the
District s water system to provide water service to the District s customers on
the Lowry Range Property. The Rangeview Water Agreements dedicated 17,620
acre-feet of water per year for use specifically on the Lowry Range Property.
Additionally, the Rangeview Water Agreements provide for the Company to use
surface reservoir storage capacity in providing water service to customers
within the Lowry Range Property. In exchange for providing water service to
customers on the Lowry Range Property the Company will receive 95% of all
amounts received by the District relating to water services, after the District
pays the required royalties to the Land Board totaling 12% of gross revenues
received from water sales.  

  Rates and charges for tap
fees and usage or monthly fees are governed by the Company s rates and charges
for all water and wastewater services under the terms of the Rangeview Water
Agreements. These rates and charges are reviewed annually and are the average
of similar rates and charges of three surrounding municipal water and
wastewater service providers. These represent gross fees and to the extent that
water service is provided using Export Water, the Company is required to pay
royalties to the Land Board ranging from 10% of gross revenues to 50% of net
revenue after deducting certain costs.  

  The Company will also
design, finance, construct, operate and maintain the District s wastewater
system to provide wastewater service to customers within its service area
pursuant to the Wastewater Service Agreement between the Company and the
District. In exchange for providing wastewater service for the District s
customers, the Company will receive 100% of the District s wastewater tap fees
and 90% of the District s wastewater usage fees.  

   Lowry Range Water
and Export Water    

  The Rangeview Water
Supply is a combination of tributary surface water and storage rights and
nontributary groundwater rights associated with the Lowry Range Property. The
Company owns the rights to use 11,650 acre-feet of non-tributary groundwater,
which can be exported off the Lowry Range Property to serve area users. The
Company has the exclusive rights to use 17,620 acre-feet of nontributary
groundwater to serve customers on the Lowry Range Property. The Export Water,
together with water that is owned by the Land Board the Company has contracted
to utilize under the Rangeview Water Agreements, totals over 29,270 acre-feet
of water per year. Additionally, the Company has the option with the Land Board
to exchange an aggregate gross volume of 165,000 acre-feet of groundwater for
1,650 acre-feet per year of adjudicated surface water.  

  Based on independent
engineering estimates, the 17,620 acre-feet of water designated for use on the
Lowry Range Property is capable of providing water service to approximately
46,500 SFE units, and the 11,650 acre-feet of Export Water owned by the Company
can serve approximately 33,600 SFE units throughout the Denver
metropolitan region.  

  On the Lowry Range
Property, the Company will operate both the water and the wastewater systems
during the contract period and the District will own both systems. After 2081,
ownership of the water system servicing customers on the Lowry Range Property
will revert to the Land Board, with the District retaining ownership of the
wastewater system. The Company owns the Export Water and will use it to provide
water and wastewater services to customers off the Lowry Range Property. The
Company will also own all the facilities required to extend water and
wastewater services off the Lowry Range Property. The Company plans to contract
with third parties for the construction of these facilities.  

51     

The Company delivered
approximately 56.6 million, 52.3 million and 56.3 million gallons of water to
customers on the Lowry Range Property in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

   Arapahoe County
Fairgrounds Agreement for Water Service   

  Effective August 3,
2005, the Company entered into an Agreement for Water Service (the  County
Agreement ) with Arapahoe County (the  County ) to design and
construct a water system for, and provide water services to, the new Arapahoe
County Fairgrounds (the  Fairgrounds ). Pursuant to the County Agreement:
(i) the County purchased water taps for 38.5 SFEs for $567,490, or
$14,740 per tap; (ii) the Company agreed to design and construct the
required Special Facilities, for which the County agreed to provide funding of
$1,245,168; and (iii) the Company agreed to acquire rights to
approximately 363 acre-feet of groundwater from the County for $293,013.
As of August 31, 2006, the water rights deed for 336 acre-feet of
water has not been transferred to the Company, and therefore, the cost of this
water has not been capitalized on the accompanying balance sheet. The other 27
acre-feet of groundwater, valued at $52,938, has been recorded to the accompanying
balance sheet as of August 31, 2006.  

  Pursuant to the County
Agreement, in August 2005 the Company received a net cash payment of $514,552
and the rights to 27 acre-feet of dedicated groundwater valued at $52,938.
Since the Company will utilize Export Water to provide water service to the
Fairgrounds, the sale of the water taps generated a royalty payment to the Land
Board of $34,522. The agreement with the Land Board requires royalty payments
on Export Water sales based on net revenues, which are defined as proceeds from
the sale of Export Water less direct and indirect costs, including reasonable
overhead charges, associated with the withdrawal, treatment and delivery of
Export Water. Based on this, in September 2005, the Company made the required
$34,522 royalty payment to the Land Board, which is 10% of the net tap fees
received from the County.  

  In addition, tap fees
under service agreements in which Export Water will be utilized are subject to
the CAA, which is described in more detail in Note 4. Net tap fees subject to
the CAA totaled $532,968, which were the tap fees received from the County less
the $34,522 Land Board royalty. The $532,968 was distributed by the escrow
agent as required by the CAA in September 2005. Based on the 2004 CAA acquisitions
made by the Company, the Company received $373,078, or 70%, of the distribution
and external parties received $159,890, or 30%. The $159,890 paid to third
parties in September 2005, is reflected in the August 31, 2005 balance
sheet as  Payable to contingent obligation holders 
and is combined with $15,000 payable to the CAA holders as described in Note 2
above.  

  The tap fees retained by
the Company were used to fund construction of the Wholesale Facilities required
to extend water service to the Fairgrounds. In July 2006 the Company completed
construction of the Wholesale Facilities and in accordance with SAB 104 began
recognizing the tap fees in income. For the year ended August 31, 2006,
the Company recognized approximately $1,200 of tap fee revenue which equals one
month of the approximately $428,000 of tap fee revenues to be recognized
over 30 years. The $428,000 is comprised of the tap fees received by the
Company of $567,490, decreased by (i) royalties to the Land Board of
$34,522; and (ii) 65% of the total payments made to external CAA holders
(which is more fully described in Note 4) or $104,136.  

  Pursuant to the County
Agreement, the County is providing funding of approximately $1.245 million for
the design and construction of the Special Facilities. In August 2005, the
County made an initial payment of approximately $397,000, and will make monthly
payments of approximately $9,555 for 10 years (this amount includes interest at
6% per annum and is adjusted from the amount originally reported in the Company s
prior year form 10-KSB because the Company has not received the water rights
deed for the remaining 336 acre-feet of water from the County and until
received, the Company has not deducted the value of this water from the total
Special Facilities funding to be provided). In accordance with GAAP, the total
construction funding of $1.25 million is deferred and will be recognized as
revenue over the expected service period, which is also the estimated useful
life of the Special Facilities constructed with the funds. During the year
ended August 31, 2006, the Company recognized $3,500 of Special Facilities
revenue.  

52     

The Company utilized
third party contractors to construct the required Wholesale and Special
Facilities and remained contractually liable for final construction payments to
four contractors totaling approximately $117,300, which was paid subsequent to
August 31, 2006.  

   Sky Ranch Water
Supply and Water Service Agreements   

  On October 31, 2003,
and May 14, 2004, the Company entered into two Water Service Agreements
(collectively the  Sky Ranch Agreements ) with the developer of
approximately 950 acres of property located 4 miles north of the Lowry Range
Property along Interstate 70 known as Sky Ranch. Pursuant to the Sky Ranch
Agreements the Company will provide water for all homes and buildings to be
constructed at Sky Ranch, which could go as high as 4,850 SFE units. The
developer is obligated to purchase a minimum of 400 water taps from the Company
before occupancy of the first house in Sky Ranch and a minimum of 310
annually thereafter. This tap purchase schedule is designed to provide the
Company with adequate funds with which to construct the Wholesale Facilities
required to provide water service. As additional water taps are acquired due to
continued development of Sky Ranch, the Company will expand the infrastructure
to meet demand as necessary. The Company has not received any payments for tap
purchases from the developer and the Company continues to discuss the timing of
tap purchases and the expected start date of the project with the developer.
The developer has informed the Company that it is engineering the final design
of the first phase of the project and is marketing lots to several national
home builders with operations in the Denver area. Based on these discussions,
the Company began the design and engineering of the water facilities but will
not initiate construction until the Company receives notice from the developer
to proceed together with payment for the initial tap purchases.  

  As part of the Sky Ranch
Agreements, the Company will purchase approximately 537 acre-feet of water
through future tap credits totaling $2.6 million on the first 767 taps
purchased by the developer. In lieu of the developer receiving these credits
the Company will utilize the funds to construct certain Special Facilities
required to in order for the Company to provide water service to Sky Ranch. As
of August 31, 2006, this water has not been purchased by the Company
because Sky Ranch has not yet purchased any water taps.  

  On October 31, 2003
the Company entered into the Denver Groundwater Purchase Agreement (the  DGPA ) with
the developer of Sky Ranch. The DGPA provides the Company the right to purchase
a total of 223 acre-feet of adjudicated decreed water rights owned by the
developer for five payments of $50,000 each, totaling $250,000. Under the DGPA,
the Company can acquire 44.6 acre-feet of water per year (or 20% of the total
223 acre-feet) for $50,000. On March 26, 2004 and May 26, 2005, the Company
exercised its rights and purchased a total of 89.2 acre-feet of Denver aquifer
groundwater for payments totaling $100,000. During fiscal 2006 the Company
contacted Sky Ranch regarding the next purchase of groundwater pursuant to the
DGPA and is in the process of exercising its third payment. The Company
anticipates purchasing the remaining 60% of the Sky Ranch groundwater pursuant
to the DGPA, by exercising its rights this year and over the next two years for
payments totaling $150,000.  

  The Company plans to initially
develop the 760 acre-feet of water beneath the Sky Ranch property purchased
from the developer of Sky Ranch under the DGPA and the Sky Ranch Agreements.
The purchased water is sufficient to provide water service to approximately
1,500 taps. Any taps purchased by Sky Ranch in excess of 1,500 will be serviced
utilizing Export Water and are subject to royalty payments to the Land Board
and payments to the CAA holders.  

  The Sky Ranch Agreements
provide the developer options to use a combined 1,200 acre-feet of Export Water
per year at Sky Ranch after a defined number of taps have been purchased for
use at Sky Ranch unless the developer allows the options to expire. The Sky
Ranch Agreements call for two options (i) annual installments of $50,000
over five years (the  Sky Ranch Option ), and (ii) annual installments of
$10,400 over five years (the  Hills Option ). Option fees received before the
options are exercised or allowed to expire will not be refunded and are
deferred and recognized into income ratably until the next option payment is
due.  

  In fiscal 2005 and
2004, the developer remitted the first two $50,000 Sky Ranch Option payments
which were both distributed in order of priority to the CAA holders. The
Company received $35,000 of the fiscal 2005 distribution in September 2005 and
outside parties received $15,000. The Company received this distribution
because it had  

53     

repurchased
certain CAA interests in fiscal 2004. Of the amounts paid to the outside
parties, $5,231 was allocated to the  Participating Interests in
Export Water supply  liability and $9,769 reduced the contingency
under the CAA. The Company did not retain any of the fiscal 2004 distributions.  

  In February 2005,
the developer remitted the first $10,400 Hills Option payment which was
distributed in order of priority to the CAA holders. Of this distribution, the
Company received $7,280 and outside parties received $3,120. Of the amounts
paid to the outside parties, $1,088 was allocated to the  Participating
Interests in Export Water supply  liability and $2,032 reduced the
contingency under the CAA.  

  As of August 31,
2006, both the $50,000 Sky Ranch Option payment and the $10,400 Hills at Sky
Ranch Option payment are past due. The Company is in discussions with the
developer of Sky Ranch regarding the status of the payments, but as of the date
of this filing the Company has not received the payments or any information
regarding the expected date of the payments. If the developer of Sky Ranch
allows the options to expire, the Company will no longer be obligated to
provide Export Water to Sky Ranch and Sky Ranch would likely not be permitted
to build the densities they were approved by the county due to a lack of
sufficient water service. Whether Sky Ranch exercises these options or not has
no bearing on the DGPA and the Company fully intends to complete its purchase
of the remaining water covered by the DGPA.  

  The Company has dedicated
approximately 1,200 acre-feet, or 10%, of the Export Water supply (which is
about 4.2% of the Company s overall Rangeview Water Supply) for this
project under the Sky Ranch options.  

    Paradise
Water Supply.    In 1987, the Company acquired water, water
wells, and related assets from Paradise Oil, Water and Land Development, Inc.,
which constitute the Paradise Water Supply. The
recorded costs of the Paradise water supply include the costs to acquire the
Paradise water supply, as well as certain direct legal and engineering costs
relating to improvements to the asset. The Paradise Water Supply
includes 70,000 acre-feet of conditionally decreed tributary Colorado River
water, a right-of-way permit from the United States Department of the Interior,
Bureau of Land Management, for the construction of a 70,000 acre-foot dam and
reservoir across federal lands, and four unrelated water wells. Due to the
strict regulatory requirements for constructing an on-channel reservoir,
completing this conditional storage right at its decreed location would be
difficult. As a result, there can be no assurance that the Company will ever be
able to make use of this asset or sell the water profitably. 

  Every six years the
Paradise Water Supply is subject to a Finding of Reasonable Diligence review by
the water court and the State Engineer to determine if the Company is
diligently pursuing the development of the water rights. During fiscal 2005,
the water court began this review. In fiscal 2006 the Company received
objections from two parties to its Paradise Water rights. The objectors have
expressed concerns that the Company has not diligently pursued the development
of the Paradise water rights and are seeking additional assurances that the
Company intends to develop this water in the future. The Company is working
with the objectors on specific milestones for development of this water in the
future in exchange for the withdrawal of the opposition to the diligence
review. At this time, the Company can make no assurances that it will be able
to reach a reasonable agreement with the objectors or that the objections will
be removed. If the Company does not receive a finding of due diligence from the
water court, the Company would lose the water rights, be required to impair the
Paradise Water Supply and record an impairment charge of approximately $5.5
million against earnings. The Company intends to continue to vigorously defend
its Paradise water rights and look for efficient ways to use this water
including agricultural and municipal uses along the western slope of Colorado.
Pursuant to agreements entered into prior to the Company s acquisition of the
Paradise Water Supply, the Company is required to find uses for this water
along the western slope of Colorado.  

  In accordance with FASB Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard No. 144 ,   Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  ( SFAS
144 ), the Company reviews its long-term assets, including the Paradise water
supply, for indicators of impairment. Consistent with SFAS 144, the Company
compares the carrying amount of the Paradise Water Supply to the sum of the
undiscounted cash flows from the expected eventual use of the asset. Assessment
of the recoverability of the carrying value of the Paradise Water Supply
assumes  

54     

revenues from water tap sales and monthly metered
water usage fees offset by wholesale development costs, which are based on
engineering estimates, over a 35 year development horizon. Based on the
latest annual assessment (last test performed as of August 31, 2006),
because the fair value exceeds the carrying value of the Paradise water supply
no impairment was found to exist.  

   NOTE 4  
PARTICIPATING INTERESTS IN EXPORT WATER   

  The Company commenced the
purchase of its Rangeview Water Supply through a Water Commercialization
Agreement ( WCA ), an agreement with a related investor (the  LCH Agreement ) and
the sale of 432,513 shares of Series B Preferred Stock. The WCA was entered
into in 1990 and amended in 1991 and 1992 and again in 1996 by the signing of
the CAA. The parties to the WCA and CAA agreements provided the Company
approximately $11.1 million of financing to acquire the Rangeview Water Supply.
This amount (which has been reduced by the transactions described
below) is presented on the accompanying balance sheet as  Participating Interests in Export Water supply , a liability.
In addition to repaying the initial $11.1 million of funding, the CAA provided
that the Company would pay the parties to the CAA an additional approximate
$20.9 million of proceeds from Export Water sales (of which, $218,500 was to be
maintained by the Company). Under the CAA, these funds are to be repaid
strictly with proceeds from the sale of Export Water. Therefore, before the
2004 acquisitions as described below, the first $32.0 million received from the
sale of Export Water was required to be paid to external CAA holders.  

  As the proceeds from the
sale of Export Water are received, and the amounts are remitted to the external
CAA holders, the Company allocates a ratable percentage of this payment to the
principal portion (the Participating Interests liability account) with the
balance of the payment being charged to the contingent obligation portion. The
amount allocated to the liability is 35% which is the percentage the $11.1
million represented of the total $32.0 million obligation. The remaining portion,
or 65%, is allocated to the contingent obligation. The portion allocated to
principal will be recorded as a reduction in the Participating Interests
liability account while the amounts applied to the contingency are recorded on
a net revenue basis when funds are received.  

  The table below details
the transactions impacting the CAA obligations since its signing, which are
explained in greater detail below the table:  

*                       The
Arapahoe County tap fees are less the $34,522 royalty payment to the Land
Board. 

  In August 2006, the
Company acquired the rights to approximately $4.7 million of CAA interests, and
retired approximately $896,000 of debt (which included approximately $471,500
of accrued interest) in exchange for the issuance of 242,169 shares of
restricted common stock valued at approximately $2.1 million. The Company agreed  

55     

to register these shares
no later than December 14, 2006. As a result of this agreement, the Company now
has the right to retain an additional $4.7 million of the initial $32.0 million
of proceeds from the sale of Export Water. This brings the Company s total to
be retained per the CAA as of August 31, 2006 to $12.7 million (including
the fiscal 2004 acquisitions described below and net of the payments made
pursuant to the CAA in fiscal 2005 and 2004). Based on the original accounting
treatment of the CAA, which is consistent with the fiscal 2004 acquisitions
described below, the Company recorded a gain on the extinguishment of debt and
acquisition of the CAA of $390,900 during the fiscal year ended August 31,
2006.  

  During fiscal 2004, the
Company acquired the rights to approximately $8.2 million of CAA obligations in
exchange for cash payments of $2.75 million and the issuance of 40,512 shares
of restricted common stock. As a result of these transactions, the Company,
rather than external CAA holders, has the right to retain an additional $8.4
million of the initial $32.0 million of proceeds from the sale of Export Water.
Based on the original accounting treatment for the CAA, the Company recorded an
extinguishment charge of approximately $217,000 related to this transaction
during the fiscal year ended August 31, 2004.  

  The acquisition of these
CAA obligations and debt reduction, reduces the long term impact of the CAA and
provides the Company with additional cash flows to fund operations and pursue
other business opportunities that may arise.  

  The CAA includes
contractually established priorities, and the rights the Company acquired in
fiscal 2006 and 2004 includes $5.6 million in the highest priority level, $1.45
million in the third priority level, and the remaining $5.75 million at various
other priority levels.  

  The
CAA obligation is non-interest bearing, and if the Export Water is not sold,
the parties to the CAA have no recourse against the Company. If the Company
does not sell the Export Water, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock are
not entitled to payment of any dividend and have no contractual recourse
against the Company.  

    The
LCH Agreement and Preferred Stock.    Pursuant to the LCH
Agreement, the Company agreed to pay the next $4.0 million of proceeds from
Export Water sales to LCH, Inc. a party related to the Company s former CEO,
Thomas Clark. Further, the next $433,000 of proceeds from Export Water sales
were required to be paid to the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock.
Accordingly, the Company would only be entitled to retain 100% of the proceeds
from Export Water sales after paying $36.5 million under the CAA and LCH
agreements and to the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock. 

  On August 31,
2004 the Company entered into the Settlement Agreement with LCH, whereby LCH
released the Company from its obligations under the LCH Agreement in
consideration of the Company s former CEO surrendering 306,279 shares of
common stock (which were pledged as collateral against notes payable to LCH),
and the Company repaying the $950,000 of notes payable to LCH. The 306,279
shares were designated to repay approximately $1,557,100 of accrued interest
payable to LCH and to acquire the $4.0 million of contingent obligations, which
represents the Company s obligations under the LCH Agreement extending the
$32.0 million of obligations under the CAA to $36.0 million. In January 2005,
the Company paid Mr. Clark $50,555 in cash and issued him 300,000 shares
of restricted common stock, which totaled $2,465,555. Based on the original
accounting treatment for this contingent obligation, the Company recorded an
extinguishment charge of approximately $909,000 related to this transaction in
the year ended August 31, 2004.  

   NOTE 5  
ACCRUED LIABILITIES   

  At August 31, 2006, the Company had accrued
liabilities of approximately $289,600, of which $143,400 is for professional
fees (of which $77,800 is related to the Arkansas River Agreement as described
in Note 3), $117,300 relates to construction invoices for the County
Agreement, and the remainder is for operating payables. At August 31,
2005, the Company had accrued liabilities of $31,500 of which $23,000 were for
professional fees, approximately $4,000 relates to construction invoices for
the County Agreement and the remainder were for operating payables.  

56     

NOTE 6   LONG-TERM DEBT   

  Long-term debt,
including accrued interest, at August 31, is comprised of the following:  

The Participating
Interest in Export Water supply and the Tap Participation Fees payable to HP
A M are contingent obligations of the Company that have no scheduled
maturity dates. Therefore, these liabilities are not included in the table
above. As of August 31, 2006, the only debt the Company has with a
contractual maturity date is the note payable to the estate of our former CEO,
which is due in October 2007 and is therefore classified entirely as long-term.  

  Principal
payable by HP A M (reflected on our balance sheet as  Contingent obligations payable upon default of HP
A M ) approximate the following for the years ending
August 31: $910,200 in 2007, $828,300 in 2008, $888,500 in 2009, $952,200 in
2010, $1,019,700 in 2011, and $9,793,900 thereafter. The balance as of
August 31, 2006 includes $205,000 of unpaid interest. The    Contingent
obligations payable upon default of HP A M    have been
reflected as non-current on our balance sheet as there is no indication
that HP A M will default. The notes payable by HP
A M require balloon payments at maturity, have maturity dates through
2013, and accrue interest at either 6% or 7% per annum.  

  As further described in
Note 4 above, in August 2006 the Company issued 242,169 shares of restricted
common stock as consideration for the extinguishment of approximately $896,000
of debt and accrued interest and $4.7 million of CAA interests. The net gain on
this transaction was approximately $390,900 which is reflected in the Company s
statement of operations.  

  As further described in
Note 13 below, in December 2005, the Company and the estate of its former CEO
agreed to terms whereby the Company paid the estate approximately $195,600 in
full consideration of notes payable and accrued interest totaling approximately
$558,800.  

   NOTE 7  
STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY   

    Preferred and Common Stock.    The
Company s non-voting Series B Preferred Stock have a preference in liquidation
of $1.00 per share less any dividends previously paid. Additionally, the Series
B Preferred Stock are redeemable at the discretion of the Company for $1.00 per
share less any dividends previously paid. In the event that the Company s
proceeds from sale or disposition of Export Water rights exceeds $36,026,232,
the Series B Preferred Stock holders will receive the next $433,000 of proceeds
in the form of a dividend. 

    Stock Options.    The
Company maintains two stock option plans, the 2004 Incentive Plan which was
approved by stockholders in April 2004, and the Equity Incentive Plan which was
approved by stockholders in June 1992, (collectively the  Option Plans ) for
executives, eligible employees and non-employee directors. Under the Option
Plans, options to purchase shares of stock can be granted with exercise prices
and vesting periods determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board and
are exercisable over periods of up to ten years. The Company has 1.6 million
and 1.2 million shares of common stock reserved for issuance under the 2004
Incentive Plan and the Equity Incentive Plan, respectively. Of these amounts,
1,477,500 options can still be granted under the 2004 Incentive Plan. The
Equity Incentive Plan expired in 2002 and no additional options can be granted
under this plan. 

57     

The following table summarizes the stock option
activity for the Company s option plans for fiscal 2006:  

The following table
summarizes the activity and value of non-vested options during fiscal 2006:  

The following table
summarizes information regarding options granted and vested during the years
ended August 31:  

The following table
summarizes information about stock options that are fully vested and
exercisable as of August 31, 2006 :  

At August 31,
2006, the Company has unrecognized SFAS 123(R) expenses relating to
non-vested options that are expected to vest totaling $508,900. The
weighted-average period over which these options are expected to vest is 2
years. The Company has not recorded any excess tax benefits to additional paid
in capital.  

  In August 2006,
the Company granted its new director an option to purchase 5,000 shares of the
Company s common stock pursuant to the 2004 Incentive Plan. The option vests
50% on the first anniversary date of the grant and 50% on the second
anniversary date of the grant. Also in August in 2006, the Company granted an
employee options to purchase 30,000 shares of the Company s common stock
pursuant to the 2004 Incentive Plan. The shares vest one third on each of the
next three anniversary dates of the grant.  

58  

In April of 2005,
options to purchase 10,000 shares of the Company s common stock were granted to
non-employee directors under the 2004 Incentive Plan, which vest in one year.  

  During the fiscal
year ended August 31, 2006, the Company received approximately $1,150,000
from the exercise of stock options. Option holders can either exercise their
options by paying the Company their exercise price in cash or, upon approval by
the compensation committee of the board of directors, by the option holder
exchanging  shares of common stock held by the option holder for
more than six months, with a market value at the date of exercise equal to the
exercise price of options being exercised , for the shares to be
issued pursuant to the option exercise. If option holders use mature
shares to exercise their options, the Company records the mature shares
utilized as treasury stock. Since the option holders determine which method
they will utilize to pay the exercise price of the options, the Company can not
estimate the number of treasury shares that may be received in the coming year.  

  The exercise price
for 391,443 of the options exercised in fiscal 2006 was paid for by the
option holders utilizing 57,125 shares of common stock held by the applicable
option holders more than six months with a market value at the dates of
exercise totaling approximately $454,600, which is shown as Treasury Stock on
the accompanying balance sheet.  

  The exercise price
for 308,299 of the options exercised in fiscal 2005 was paid for by the
option holders utilizing 73,154 shares of common stock held by the applicable
option holders more than six months with a market value at the dates of
exercise totaling approximately $554,900, which is shown as Treasury Stock on
the accompanying balance sheet.  

    Warrants.
   As of August 31, 2006, the Company has outstanding
warrants to purchase 92 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $1.80
per share. During fiscal 2006, the Company issued 15,520 shares of common stock
upon the exercise of 15,520 warrants. The warrant holder paid the exercise
price of $27,936 in cash. These warrants expire six months from the earlier of
(i) the date all of the Export Water is sold or otherwise disposed of,
(ii) the date the CAA is terminated with respect to the original holder of
the warrant, or (iii) the date on which the Company makes the final
payment pursuant to Section 2.1(r) of the CAA. 

    Gain
on extinguishment of related party debt. 
   See Note 13    Related Party Transactions 
regarding gain on extinguishment of related party debt recorded as additional
paid in capital. 

   NOTE 8 -  SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS   

  The Company had accounts
receivable from two customers totaling approximately $60,600 and $47,900 as of
August 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The same customers accounted for
approximately 96%, 98% and 96% respectively, of the Company s revenues during
the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004.  

   NOTE 9 -
INCOME TAXES   

  There is no provision for
income taxes because the Company has incurred operating losses. Deferred income
taxes reflect the tax effects of net operating loss carryforwards and temporary
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for
financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes.
Significant components of the Company s deferred tax assets as of
August 31 are as follows:  

59     

The Company has recorded
a valuation allowance equal to the excess of the deferred tax assets over the
deferred tax liability as the Company is unable to reasonably determine if it
is more likely than not that deferred tax assets will ultimately be realized.  

  Income taxes computed
using the federal statutory income tax rate differs from our effective tax rate
primarily due to the following for the years ended August 31:  

At August 31, 2006,
the Company has approximately $9,025,000 of net operating loss carryovers
available for income tax purposes which expire between fiscal 2007 and 2026.
Utilization of these net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to
substantial annual ownership change limitations provided by the Internal
Revenue Code. Such an annual limitation could result in the expiration of the
net operating loss carryforwards before utilization.  

  Net operating loss
carryforwards of approximately $430,000, $474,000 and $981,000 expired during
the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

   NOTE 10   INFORMATION CONCERNING
BUSINESS SEGMENTS   

  The operating segments
reported below are the segments of the Company for which separate discrete
financial information is available and for which results are evaluated by the
Company s President in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing
performance. The Company evaluates the performance of its segments based on
gross margins of the respective business units before corporate and unallocated
shared expenses if any. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as
those of the Company as described in Note 2.  

  The Company principally
has two lines of business: (i) the design and construction of water and
wastewater systems, and (ii) the provision of water and wastewater
services, which includes the operations and maintenance of systems the Company
constructed, to customers within the Company s service area.  

  The Company had one
construction project occur in fiscal 2006 and none in fiscal 2005 or 2004
because development has not begun on either the Lowry Range Property or Sky
Ranch, and therefore, the Company has not recognized any construction revenues
or expenses during the years ended August 31, 2005 or 2004.  

  Beginning in August 2005
and concluding in fiscal 2006, the Company constructed a water system to
provide water services to the Fairgrounds. The construction project included
the design and construction of a 500,000 gallon water tank, a new deep water
well and pipeline. The Company designed the system and hired third party
contractors to build the required infrastructure, which was supervised by the
Company s engineer. The construction costs totaled $2.6 million, which is
capitalized with the Company s investments in water and water systems. As of
August 31, 2006, these assets were fully operational and transferred to
the service provider segments balance sheet and therefore there are no
construction related assets on the Company s accompanying balance sheet.  

  The results of operations
for the year ended August 31, 2006 relate to the service provider segment
with the exception of (i) the $1,200 of tap fees recognized as revenues
which relates to tap fees received by the Company which were used for the
construction of the required wholesale facilities, (ii) the $3,500 of
Special facility funding recognized during fiscal 2006 which is the ratable
portion of the construction funding being provided by the County   

60     

related entirely to the
construction of the Special Facilities, and (iii) an estimated $90,000 of
salaries and related costs incurred by the Company for the work performed by
Company employees on the construction project.  

   NOTE 11   401(k) PLAN   

  Effective July 25, 2006,
the Company adopted the Pure Cycle Corporation 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan
(the  Plan ), a defined contribution retirement plan for the benefit of its
employees. The Plan is currently a salary deferral only plan and at this time
the Company does not match employee contributions. The Company pays the annual
administrative fees of the Plan, which are estimated to be approximately $2,500
per year, and the Plan participants pay the investment fees. The Plan is open
to all employees, age 21 or older, who have been employees of the Company for
at least six months. During the year ended August 31, 2006, because the
Plan was not open for the entire year, the Company paid fees of less than
$1,000 for the administration of the Plan.  

   NOTE 12  
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF NON-CASH ACTIVITIES   

NOTE 13   RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS   

  On December 29,
2005, the Company and the estate of its former CEO agreed to terms whereby the
Company paid the estate $195,573 in full consideration of notes payable and
accrued interest totaling $558,781. 
Because the estate of our former CEO is deemed a related party, the
Company recorded the $363,208 gain as a contribution of capital.  

61     

The Company leases
office space from the son of its former CEO, who is also the sole manager of
TPC Ventures, LLC which is a greater than 5% holder of the Company s common
stock. The Company leases the office space on a month-to-month basis for $1,000
per month.  

  In 1995, the
Company extended a loan to the District, a related party. The loan provided for
borrowings of up to $250,000 is unsecured, bears interest based on the
prevailing prime rate plus 2% (10.25% at August 31, 2006) and matures
on December 31, 2006. The $452,230 balance of the note receivable at
August 31, 2006 includes borrowings of $229,310 and accrued interest of
$222,920. The Company extended the due date to December 31, 2007 and
accordingly the note has been classified as non-current.  

   NOTE 14   SUPPLEMENTAL DATA:
SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION   (unaudited)   

*****  

62     

Item 9.                     Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.      

  None.  

   Item 9A.                  Controls
and Procedures.      

    (a)                           Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures   

  Our management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting as such term is defined in the Exchange Act Rule 13a 15(f).
Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
GAAP.  

  The President and Chief
Financial Officer assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting as of August 31, 2006 based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Based upon this evaluation, the President and Chief Financial Officer has
concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were not
effective as of August 31, 2006 due to the material weakness in internal
control over financial reporting described below (Item 9A(b)).  

   (b)                          Management s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

  The management of the
Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting. The Securities and Exchange Act of 1934
defines internal control over financial reporting in Rule 13a-15(f) as a
process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company s principal
executive and principal financial officers and effected by the Company s board
of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America and includes
those policies and procedures that:  

                        Pertain to the
maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; 

                        Provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of
the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the Company; and 

                        Provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition,
use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on
the financial statements. 

  Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to risk that controls may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.  

  The Company s management
assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting as of August 31, 2006. In making this assessment, the Company s
management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control-Integrated Framework .  

  Based upon its
assessment, management concluded that, as of August 31, 2006, the Company
has inadequate controls over the process for the identification and
implementation of the proper accounting for certain transactions which resulted
in material audit adjustments.  

63     

A material weakness
represents a significant deficiency (as defined in the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board s Auditing Standard No. 2), or a combination of
significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a
material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be
prevented or detected on a timely basis.  

  As a result of this
deficiency, there were misstatements in the Company s financial statements that
were corrected prior to the issuance of the fiscal 2006 financial statements.  

  As a result of the
aforementioned material weakness, management has concluded that the Company did
not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of
August 31, 2006.  

  Anton Collins Mitchell
LLP, the Company s independent registered public accounting firm, who has
audited the Company s financial statements included herein, has issued an
attestation report on management s assessment of the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting at August 31, 2006
which report is included herein.  

   (c)                           Changes
in Internal Controls   

  There have been no significant changes in our internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect these controls
subsequent to the date of the evaluation referred to above.  

   (d)                          Remediation
Efforts to Address Material Weaknesses in Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting   

  The Company is developing
a formal remediation plan and intends to make progress on remediation during
fiscal 2007 and to complete the remediation of this weakness by August 31,
2007. Remediation includes the verification through management testing that the
revised control procedures are operating effectively, which may extend the
remediation timeline if these tests indicate that the control deficiency
remains.  

   (e)                           Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm   

  The report of the
Company s independent registered public accounting firm is included in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   

   Item 9B.                  Other
Information.      

  None  

   PART III     

  Information concerning
Items 10 through Items 14 are contained in our definitive Proxy Statement
pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein by
reference, which is expected to be filed on or about December 15, 2006.  

   PART IV     

   Item 15.                  Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedules      

  (a)   Exhibits  

64     

10.1 

Letter Agreement dated August 31, 1987 between
  Pure Cycle Corporation and Paradise Oil, Water   Land Development, Inc.
  Incorporated by reference from Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC
  on August 5, 1988.  

10.2  

Right of First Refusal Agreement dated August 12,
  1992 between INCO Securities Corporation and Richard F. Myers, Mark W.
  Harding, Thomas P. Clark, Thomas Lamm and Rowena Rogers. Incorporated by
  Reference from Registration Statement on Form SB-2, filed April 19, 2004,
  Registration No. 333-114568.  

10.3  

Equity Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference
  from Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting held April 2, 1993.  

10.4  

2004 Equity Incentive Plan. Incorporated by
  reference from Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting held April 12, 2004  

10.5  

Service Agreement, dated April 11, 1996, by and
  between Pure Cycle Corporation and the Rangeview Metropolitan District.
  Incorporated by reference from Quarterly Report on Form 10-QSB for the period
  ended May 31, 1996.  

10.6  

Wastewater Service Agreement, dated January 22,
  1997, by and between Pure Cycle Corporation and the Rangeview Metropolitan
  District. Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for
  the fiscal year ended August 31, 1997.  

10.7  

Comprehensive Amendment Agreement No. 1, dated April
  11, 1996, by and among ISC, the Company, the Bondholders, Gregory M. Morey,
  Newell Augur, Jr., Bill Peterson, Stuart Sundlun, Alan C. Stormo, Beverlee A.
  Beardslee, Bradley Kent Beardslee, Robert Douglas Beardslee, Asra
  Corporation, International Properties, Inc., and the Land Board. Incorporated
  by reference from Quarterly Report on Form 10-QSB for the period ended
  May 31, 1996.  

10.8  

Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release dated April
  11, 1996 by and among the Land Board and the District, Pure Cycle
  Corporation, INCO Securities Corporation, Apex Investment Fund II, L.P.,
  Landmark Water Partners, L.P., Landmark Water Partners II, L.P.,
  Environmental Venture Fund, L.P., Environmental Private Equity Fund II, L.P.,
  The Productivity Fund II, L.P., Proactive Partners, L.P., Warwick Partners,
  L.P., Auginco, Anders C. Brag, Amy Leeds, and D.W. Pettyjohn, and OAR,
  Incorporated, Willard G. Owens and H.F. Riebesell, Jr. Incorporated by
  reference from Quarterly Report on Form 10-QSB for the fiscal quarter ended
  May 31, 1996).  

10.9  

Agreement for Sale of Export Water dated April 11,
  1996 by and among the Company and the District. Incorporated by reference
  from Quarterly Report on Form 10-QSB for the fiscal quarter ended
  May 31, 1996).  

10.10  

Water Service Agreement for the Sky Ranch PUD dated
  October 31, 2003 by and between Airpark Metropolitan District, Icon
  Investors I, LLC, the Company and the District. Incorporated by reference
  from Registration Statement on Form SB-2, filed April 19, 2004, Registration
  No. 333-114568.  

10.11  

Non-Statutory Stock Option Agreement dated April 19,
  2001 between the Company and Mark W. Harding. Incorporated by reference from
  Registration Statement on Form SB-2, filed April 19, 2004, Registration
  No. 333-114568.  

10.12  

Amendment to Water Service Agreement for the Sky
  Ranch PUD dated January 6, 2004. Incorporated by Reference from Amendment No.
  1 to Registration Statement on Form SB-2, filed June 7, 2004, Registration
  No. 333-114568.  

10.13  

Amendment to Water Service Agreement for the Sky
  Ranch PUD dated January 30, 2004. Incorporated by Reference from
  Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form SB-2, filed June 7, 2004,
  Registration No. 333-114568.  

65     

*    Filed
herewith  

66     

(b)                              Financial
Statement Schedules 

  None  

67  

Signatures    

  In accordance with
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, the Registrant has
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.  

  PURE CYCLE CORPORATION  

By: 

/s/ Mark W. Harding  

Mark W. Harding,
President and Chief Financial Officer  

  In accordance with the
Securities Exchange Act, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated:  

68  

<EX-10.15>
 2
 a06-23975_1ex10d15.htm
 EX-10

Exhibit 10.15   

   SECOND
AMENDMENT TO   
 AGREEMENT TO AMEND/EXTEND  
 WATER SERVICE AGREEMENT  
 for the  
 SKY RANCH PUD  

   March 5, 2004   

  RE:                                 Water Service Agreement dated
October 31, 2003 by and between AIRPARK METROPOLITAN DISTRICT ( AMD 
ICON INVESTORS I LLC ( DEVELOPER  PURE CYCLE CORPORATION ( PURECYCLE  and
RANGEVIEW METROPOLITAN DISTRICT ( RANGEVIEW ) relating to the provisions
of water services to the Sky Ranch PUD (Arapahoe County case No. Z01-010). 

  This
Amendment, dated  March 5, 2004 , shall amend the aforesaid water service
agreement as follows:  

  Section 10.2, Termination Contingency,
Subsection (c) shall be amended to read as follows:  

  (c)                                      Water Rights .  If
AMD or the DEVELOPER are unsatisfied with the opinion of water counsel provided
pursuant to Section 6.03(e), AMD or the DEVELOPER shall have the right to
terminate this Agreement by giving written notice to RANGEVIEW and
PURECYCLE.  In no event shall AMD or
DEVELOPER have the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section
after the Board of County Commissioners of Arapahoe County has approved the
PDP, or March 20, 2004, whichever is latest. 

  AIRPARK METROPOLITAN DISTRICT  

By: 

[signature not legible]  

ICON INVESTORS I
LLC, a Colorado Limited Liability Company  

By: 

AIRWAY PARK MANAGER LLC, A COLORADO LIMITED
  LIABILITY COMPANY  

By:  

[signature not legible]  

PURE CYCLE
CORPORATION, a Delaware Corporation  

By: 

/s/ Mark Harding  

Mark Harding, President  

RANGEVIEW
METROPOLITAN DISTRICT  

By: 

/s/ Thomas P. Clark  

Thomas P. Clark, Director  

</EX-10.15>

<EX-23.1>
 3
 a06-23975_1ex23d1.htm
 EX-23

EXHIBIT 23.1   

   Consent
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

   The Board
of Directors 
Pure Cycle Corporation:   

   We hereby
consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statement (No.
333-114568) on Form S-8 of our reports dated November 10, 2006, relating to the
financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting of Pure Cycle Corporation, which reports appear in the August 31,
2006 annual report on Form 10-K of Pure Cycle Corporation.  Our report on the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting expresses an adverse opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
August 31, 2006.   

   /s/ Anton
Collins Mitchell LLP   

   Anton
Collins Mitchell LLP 
November 20, 2006   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 4
 a06-23975_1ex23d2.htm
 EX-23

EXHIBIT 23.2   

  Consent of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

  The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Pure Cycle Corporation:  

  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the
registration statement (No. 333-114568) on Form S-8 of Pure Cycle
Corporation of our report dated October 29, 2004, with respect to the
statements of operations, stockholders  equity and comprehensive loss, and cash
flows of Pure Cycle Corporation for the year ended August 31, 2004, which
report appears in the August 31, 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K of Pure
Cycle Corporation.  

  /s/ KPMG, LLP  

  Denver, Colorado 
November 20, 2006  

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 a06-23975_1ex31d1.htm
 EX-31

EXHIBIT 31.1   

   CERTIFICATIONS     

  I, Mark W.
Harding, certify that:  

  1.                                          I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Pure Cycle Corporation; 

  2.                                          Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                                          Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                                          I
am responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

  (a)                                     Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under my supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to me by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this annual report is being prepared; 

  (b)                                    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under my supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principals; 

  (c)                                     Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report my conclusion about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  (d)                                    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                                          I
have disclosed, based on my most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

  (a)                                     All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

  (b)                                    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

  Dated: November 20, 2006  

/s/ Mark W. Harding 

President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 a06-23975_1ex32d1.htm
 EX-32

EXHIBIT 32.1   

  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION
1350,  
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

  In connection with
the Annual Report of Pure Cycle Corporation (the  Company ), on Form 10-K for
the year ending August 31, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Mark W. Harding, Chief
Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as
adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

  (1)                                     The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

  (2)                                     The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and result of operations of the Company. 

/s/ Mark W. Harding 

President and Chief Financial Officer  

November 20, 2006  

</EX-32.1>

