<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061109_10-K_edgar_data_737874_0000950137-06-012178_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>851219</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>303107</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>339564</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>47</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>9</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950137-06-012178.hdr.sgml : 20061109
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061109164343
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950137-06-012178
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060831
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061109
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061109

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LAIDLAW INTERNATIONAL INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000737874
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT & INTERURBAN HWY PASSENGER TRAINS [4100]
		IRS NUMBER:				980390488
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0831

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-10657
		FILM NUMBER:		061202919

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		55 SHUMAN BLVD.
		STREET 2:		SUITE 400
		CITY:			NAPERVILLE
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60563
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6308483000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		55 SHUMAN BLVD.
		STREET 2:		SUITE 400
		CITY:			NAPERVILLE
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60563

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	LAIDLAW INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19941215

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	LAIDLAW TRANSPORTATION LTD
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19900118

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 C5lXr2eN7taTBcrJREQiskIexVp0ZLLelk09IReZKIzVgQZAszvZ9P8tsxW/7Nqg
 Bo20atAW1yMMa2wLzj+mgg==

 0000950137-06-012178.txt : 20061109

10-K
 1
 c09920e10vk.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF 
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006 

Commission File Number 000-10657 

LAIDLAW INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE 

98-0390488  

(State or other jurisdiction of  
incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer 
Identification No.) 

55 SHUMAN BOULEVARD, SUITE 400 
NAPERVILLE, ILLINOIS 60563  
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)  
 (630) 848-3000  
Registrant s telephone number, including area code

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, $0.01 par value

New York Stock Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act. Yes     No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
15(d) of the Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer.

Large accelerated filer        Accelerated filer        Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). Yes     No    

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the
registrant at February 28, 2006 was $2,718.3 million. At October 31, 2006 there were 79,179,590
shares of the registrant s Common Stock issued and outstanding.

APPLICABLE ONLY TO REGISTRANTS INVOLVED IN BANKRUPTCY PROCEEDINGS 
DURING THE PRECEDING FIVE YEARS

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed all documents and reports required to be
filed by Section 12, 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 subsequent to the
distribution under a plan confirmed by a court. Yes     No    

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant s definitive proxy statement for its 2007 annual meeting of stockholders
are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report on Form 10-K.

Table of Contents   

NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Certain statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including statements regarding the
status of future operating results and market opportunities and other statements that are not
historical facts, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of
terminology such as: believe, hope, may, anticipate, should, intend, plan, will, expect, estimate,
continue, project, positioned, strategy and similar expressions. Such statements involve certain
risks, uncertainties and assumptions that include, but are not limited to,

Economic and other market factors, including competitive pressures and changes
in pricing policies; 

The ability to implement initiatives designed to increase operating
efficiencies or improve results; 

Costs and risks associated with litigation and indemnification obligations; 

Changes in interpretations of existing, or the adoption of new, legislation,
regulations or other laws; 

The potential for rising labor costs and actions taken by organized labor unions; 

Continued increases in prices of fuel and potential shortages; 

Control of costs related to accident and other risk management claims; 

Terrorism and other acts of violence; 

The ability to produce sufficient future taxable income to allow us to recover
our deferred tax assets; 

The ability to repurchase the Company s stock or pay dividends to shareholders; 

Potential changes in the mix of businesses we operate; and 

The inability to earn sufficient returns on pension plan assets thus requiring
increased funding. 

Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions
prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those indicated. In light of these risks
and uncertainties you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements,
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to
consult any further disclosures the Company makes on related subjects as may be detailed in the
Company s other filings made from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

2 

LAIDLAW INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
FORM 10-K INDEX 

Item No.  

Page No.  

PART I  

Item 1.   
       
        Business  

Background and parent company restructuring 

4 

Business segments: 

Education services 

5 

Greyhound 

8 

Public transit 

12 

Available information 

14 

Item 1A.   
       
        Risk factors  

14 

Item 1B.   
       
        Unresolved Staff Comments  

17 

Item 2.   
       
        Properties  

17 

Item 3.   
       
        Legal Proceedings  

17 

Item 4.   
       
        Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

19 

Item 4A.   
       
        Executive Officers of the Registrant  

19 

PART II  

Item 5.   
       
        Market for Registrant s Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters  

21 

Item 6.   
       
        Selected Financial Data  

23 

Item 7.   
       
        Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations  

Overview 

24 

Year in review 

24 

Results of operations 

26 

Liquidity and capital resources 

31 

Off-balance sheet arrangements 

33 

Critical accounting policies 

33 

Item 7A.   
       
        Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  

35 

Item 8.   
       
        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

36 

Item 9.   
       
        Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure  

36 

Item 9A.   
       
        Controls and Procedures  

36 

Item 9B.   
       
        Other Information  

36 

PART III  

Item 10.   
       
        Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant  

38 

Item 11.   
       
        Executive Compensation  

38 

Item 12.   
       
        Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  

38 

Item 13.   
       
        Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  

38 

Item 14.   
       
        Principal Accountant Fees and Services  

38 

PART IV  

Item 15.   
       
        Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  

39 

Signatures  

42 

Amendment to Amended and Restated Equity and Performance Incentive Plan    
     Employment Agreement    
     Non-Employee Director Compensation Policy    
     Subsidiaries of the Registrant    
     Consent    
     Power of Attorney    
     Certification    
     Certification    
     Certification    

3 

Table of Contents   

PART I 

ITEM 1.  
       
      BUSINESS  

Laidlaw International, Inc. is a holding company with operations conducted by its subsidiaries.
Unless the context otherwise requires, references to the  Company,   Laidlaw International,   we, 
 our  or  us  mean Laidlaw International, Inc. and our subsidiaries. We participate in three
reportable business segments that provide transportation services in the United States (84% of
revenue) and Canada (16% of revenue):

Our education services segment is the largest provider of school bus transportation
throughout the United States and Canada (50% of revenue); 

Our Greyhound segment is the largest provider of intercity bus transportation in the
United States and Canada. Greyhound also provides charter bus services and package
delivery services (40% of revenue); and 

Our public transit segment is a leading operator of out-sourced municipal and
paratransit bus transportation within the United States (10% of revenue). 

Financial information concerning the Company s geographical and business segments is provided in
Note 16    Segment information  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

BACKGROUND AND PARENT COMPANY RESTRUCTURING 

On June 28, 2001, we, along with Laidlaw Inc., an Ontario corporation and our predecessor
( Predecessor Company ), filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code and the Canadian Companies  Creditors Arrangement Act. On February 27, 2003 and
February 28, 2003, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court and the Ontario Superior Court of Justice,
respectively, confirmed our Third Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization (the  Plan ). None of
Laidlaw International s operating subsidiaries were a party to the reorganization proceedings.

We completed our restructuring when the Plan became effective on June 23, 2003. Under the Plan,
$4.0 billion of liabilities were compromised. The creditor groups received a combination of $1.2
billion in cash and 100 million shares of newly issued common stock in Laidlaw International in
exchange for the extinguishment of all claims, liabilities and debt against the Predecessor
Company. The equity ownership of the Predecessor Company was cancelled for no consideration.

In connection with our reorganization, we became a Delaware corporation and, as part of our
domestication, we changed our name to  Laidlaw International, Inc.  from  Laidlaw Investments Ltd. 
We were originally incorporated under the laws of Ontario, Canada under the name  Laidlaw
Investments Ltd.  on September 25, 1985.

In 2005 we sold our healthcare transportation and emergency management businesses. As discussed in
Note 11    Discontinued operations  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

4 

Table of Contents   

EDUCATION SERVICES SEGMENT 

Services Provided 

Our education services business offers the following transportation related services in the United
States and Canada:

(i)  
       
      Home-to-school:  Regularly scheduled transportation of students to and from school, based on
the negotiated terms of contracts with school districts (87% of revenue); 

(ii)  
       
      Extra-curricular:  Non-regularly scheduled transportation of students on field trips, to
athletic events or for other extra-curricular activities (5% of revenue); 

(iii)  
       
      Charter   transit:  Transportation service provided to non-school customers (5% of revenue);
and 

(iv)  
       
      Other:  Leasing or sale of transportation equipment, logistical support, maintenance
agreements and other support services (3% of revenue). 

Competitive Environment 

There are an estimated 500,000 school buses operating in the United States and Canada, serving a
market of approximately 17,000 school districts and transporting approximately 55% of all
kindergarten through twelfth grade students to and from school.

The majority, approximately 350,000, of the school buses in the United States and Canada are owned
and operated by the school districts themselves. Private bus operators like us, working under
contract with the school districts, operate the remainder, or roughly 150,000 buses.

We are the largest school bus operator in the United States and Canada, providing student
transportation services to more than a thousand school districts, operating a fleet of
approximately 41,000 buses. We transport approximately two million students each school day to and
from school. The next largest provider of student transportation operates a fleet of approximately
22,000 buses. There are a few other carriers that operate nationally or regionally, and thousands
of locally owned and operated small bus companies.

The school districts that use private school bus transportation, typically through a formal
competitive bidding process, choose one carrier over another based on price, service capabilities
and safety record. There are some mandated low bid states, where our ability to leverage Laidlaw s
safety and service records, is diminished. We believe the Laidlaw brand is recognized as the
leader in the industry.

Operations 

Our education services business operates from over 450 facilities within 37 states and the District
of Columbia in the United States and six provinces in Canada. In aggregate, more than 95% of our
education services  revenue is generated from contractual relationships, generally with contract
terms of three to five years in length and options for extensions. Our school bus contracts are
typically with school districts, boards of education or municipalities. Contracts are customized
to suit the individual needs of each district and may include managing the entire transportation
system or specific components such as fleet acquisition or maintenance services. Pricing is
generally determined on a revenue per bus, per day basis with annual increases typically specified
in the agreement. The size of these contracts varies from those covering very small operations to
those covering over 570 buses. In addition to our contracted regular routes, we transport students
to extra-curricular events, field trips and athletic events and provide charter services to outside
groups.

5 

Table of Contents   

Our education services business has been implementing a business strategy designed to enhance its
financial performance and build on its leading position in the industry. We have identified key
areas of opportunity that should enable us to improve the operating performance and lower our
costs.

Strengthen leading safety record   We are committed to the highest safety standards
and have been a leader in the development of safety technology. The historical safety
trends for our operations, reflecting reductions in the frequency of accidents, have
resulted in lowering risk management costs. 

Grow operating margins and return on assets   In addition to our efforts to improve
the profitability of our contracted revenue, we are taking steps to modify our operations
in order to increase operating margins. 

We have initiatives underway to automate support functions in order to lower
processing costs. By increasing centralized purchasing and improving information
technology systems, we believe we will be able to further lower operating costs.

We believe a greater use of automation will allow us to better track and manage many
of our operating costs. We have piloted a new vehicle maintenance system that we
will begin to implement at our operating locations in 2007. This system will allow
us to track all activity and costs associated with each vehicle over its life,
permit more efficient shop scheduling and improve warranty capture.

Additionally, we have begun development of a new branch operating system that is
intended to provide branch management with improved insight into bus movements
throughout the day allowing for the monitoring of on-time performance and route
compliance, among other features.

Focus on growth   Through targeted business development efforts, acquisitions and
increased charter services, we believe we will be able to enhance our ability to grow our
traditional transportation offerings. Additionally, improved and scaleable information
systems may give us an opportunity to market our core competencies to school districts that
do not contract out bus transportation. 

While we believe the initiatives identified above will help us realize improved profitability,
implementing these changes and achieving the desired results will be challenging and could take
considerable time.

Seasonality 

Our education services business is seasonal with operations following the typical school year
schedule from September to June. As a result, our education services business historically
experiences a significant decline in revenue and operating income in our fourth fiscal quarter due
to school summer vacations. Cash flows from operations generally are significantly lower during
the first quarter and are significantly higher during the fourth quarter due to the lag between the
expenses incurred from providing services at the beginning of the school year and the collection of
receivables related to those services.

Employees 

As of August 31, 2006, our education services segment had approximately 44,900 employees, with over
95% of these employees involved directly in operations, primarily as drivers, mechanics and bus
monitors. Part-time employees comprise approximately 81% of all

6 

Table of Contents   

employees. Approximately 39% of our employees are represented by 165 collective bargaining
agreements. We believe that our relations with our employees and their collective bargaining
organizations are good. The existence of many local union contracts limits the impact of any
individual labor disruption on our operations, however, a coalition of labor unions has been formed
that is focusing on organizing service workers in a number of industries, including student
transportation. While an action from labor could have an impact on the local operations involved,
we are committed to maintaining a positive and rewarding work environment for our employees.

Safety 

We are committed to ensuring the safety of the school children we transport every day. Our drivers
operate under very stringent safety standards and undergo thorough background checks and testing at
the time of hire. We require mandatory training both in the classroom and behind the wheel for our
new drivers and we also have extensive on-going driver training and preventative maintenance
programs. We have developed and implemented a comprehensive system of safety precautions and
procedures that includes:

Child awareness training consisting of programs and activities to increase the
awareness of school bus safety; 

Daily pre-trip equipment inspection by our drivers; and 

Use of equipment on certain of our vehicles that reinforces and monitors behavior in
route and at the completion of each run. 

These efforts have enabled us to reduce the frequency of accidents over the past decade to a level
that we believe is one of the lowest in the industry.

Vehicle Fleet 

Our education services business operates a fleet of approximately 41,000 buses of which
approximately 39,000 are owned by us while the balance are owned by the customer. At August 31,
2006, the average age of our bus fleet was approximately 5.8 years. Fleet replacements are based
on contract requirements, age and useful life of the vehicle. During 2006, we purchased
approximately 4,600 vehicles at an aggregate cost of $269 million, of which $66 million was paid
for in fiscal 2007. The size and similarity of our fleet provides us with flexibility to redeploy
buses to different locations to fulfill the requirements of new or existing contracts.

Fuel 

During 2006, we consumed 65.5 million gallons of fuel in the operation of our education services
business. We purchased 52.7 million gallons with the cost of the fuel representing approximately
7% of education services  revenues. The remaining 12.8 million gallons used in operations were
supplied by the school districts themselves. In order to mitigate the effect of price fluctuations
we have incorporated two-way fuel cost adjustments or escalation provisions in contracts
representing approximately 31% of the fuel we purchased last year. We have in the past, and may in
the future, further manage the short-term impact of price increases by entering into forward
purchase contracts for fuel whereby we agree to take delivery of a set amount of fuel at a fixed
price on a future specified date. We may also enter into option contracts that hedge against fuel
price fluctuations. Over the long-term, changes in the price of fuel are generally mitigated
through the contract renewal process as the new fuel costs are reflected in the bid pricing.

7 

Table of Contents   

Regulation 

Companies operating in the school busing industry are not subject to market-area licensing
requirements in the United States. In Canada, licenses to carry passengers are granted by
provincial boards upon proof of public convenience and necessity. The provincial boards exercise
control over the issuance, extension and transfer of licenses and regulate the general conduct of a
licensee s business.

Within the United States there are federal and state and in Canada there are provincial, laws and
regulations and licensing requirements that set standards for fleet and safety equipment, bus
operations and maintenance, driver qualifications and insurance with which we must comply.

GREYHOUND SEGMENT 

Services Provided 

Greyhound is the only national provider of scheduled inter-city bus transportation services in the
United States and Canada. Greyhound offers the following services:

(i)  
       
      Passenger service:  Greyhound provides inter-city bus transportation to cities and towns in
urban and rural areas throughout the U.S. and Canada. Additionally, interline agreements and
alliances with other bus carriers provide access to smaller towns in the U.S. and Canada and
cross-border transportation to and from Mexico that are complementary to our existing service
schedules (80% of revenue); 

(ii)  
       
      Package express:  Our package express service targets commercial shippers and delivery
companies that require rapid delivery of small parcels, typically to locations within 100 to
300 miles. Our services include standard delivery, which is a value priced
terminal-to-terminal delivery service, as well as priority and same day delivery, which is a
premium priced product where parcels are typically delivered door-to-door (9% of revenue); 

(iii)  
       
      Charter:  We offer charter services whereby a group of individuals can reserve a bus and
driver for transportation to and from specific events, such as concerts, sporting events,
casinos and conventions (5% of revenue); and 

(iv)  
       
      Food service and other:  We offer food service and travel and logo items for purchase in many
of our terminal locations (6% of revenue). 

Trademarks 

We own the Greyhound name and trademarks and the  image of the running dog  trademarks worldwide.
The duration of these trademarks are indefinite as long as we continue to use them. We believe
that the Greyhound name and our trademarks have substantial consumer awareness.

Competitive Environment 

Passenger service 

The intercity transportation industry is highly competitive. Greyhound s primary sources of
competition for passengers are automobile travel, low cost air travel from both regional and

8 

Table of Contents   

national airlines and, in some markets, regional bus companies and trains. Typically, our
customers purchase their tickets within three days of the date of travel. We utilize advance
purchase discount programs in order to attract the most price sensitive customers. Choice of
destination, convenient schedules and quality service at reasonable prices are ways in which we
seek to meet this competitive challenge.

The automobile is our most significant form of competition. The out-of-pocket costs of operating
an automobile are generally less expensive than bus travel, particularly for multiple persons
traveling in a single car. We seek to meet this competitive threat through price and convenient
scheduling.

Within the U.S., we face competition from regional bus companies and small local bus companies that
cater to particular ethnic groups. In the Northeast, low-cost Asian carriers, generally operating
from curbside operations in major cities such as Boston, New York, Philadelphia and Washington
D.C., offer extremely low fares and high frequencies between the cities. We have used price,
frequency and quality of service and convenient scheduling to seek to meet this competition.

Competition by U.S.-based bus and van operators for the market represented by Spanish speaking
customers in the U.S. is growing and we may experience significant new competition on routes to,
from and across Mexican border points. We have found the most effective way to service passengers
in this market is through separately operated and branded Hispanic oriented bus subsidiaries and
ticket selling arrangements with Mexico-based bus carriers.

Package express 

We face competition in our package delivery service from local courier services, the U.S. Postal
Service and overnight express and ground carriers. We continue to develop programs to meet this
competition and further develop our package delivery business. These programs focus on systems
that improve billing and tracking for our customers, localized marketing strategies, and local,
regional or national alliances with pick-up and delivery carriers. Building on the incremental
nature of the package express business, we can focus on providing same-day intercity package
express at distances of up to 500 miles at highly competitive prices.

Charter 

A few regional carriers and several thousand local operators compete with us for charter services.
Principal factors in obtaining new business and retaining existing customers include competitive
pricing, type of equipment and consistency in service.

Food service 

Due to the captive nature of the food service operations in Greyhound s terminals, competition is
limited. In some locations, however, fast food restaurants and convenience stores located in close
proximity to Greyhound s terminals can pose a competitive factor.

Operations 

Greyhound offers passenger service with approximately 12,700 daily departures to approximately
2,400 locations. Travelers can purchase tickets at approximately 100 company-operated bus
terminals and approximately 1,500 agency-operated terminals and sales agencies. Discounts usually
are offered on tickets purchased in advance of travel. However, most tickets are purchased and
used within three days of departure.

9 

Table of Contents   

We continue to implement a long-range strategic plan for the Greyhound business in order to enhance
revenue per mile, grow revenue in core markets and improve operating efficiency.

Enhance revenue per mile  - In 2006, Greyhound completed a multi-year program to
transform its network into a simpler, more regional structure that is short and medium haul
focused and offers a better service pattern for customers. Through the elimination of
unprofitable routes and low demand stops, Greyhound has been able to increase revenue per
mile while offering faster, more convenient service. We will continue to look for
opportunities to increase profitability through adjustments to frequency and pricing to
match changing demand patterns. 

Grow revenue  - Greyhound has initiatives underway to rejuvenate its brand and increase
ridership by improving the passenger experience, updating the buses and terminals and
shifting the brand messaging away from low- price to one of a good travel experience at a
reasonable price. Its marketing program incorporates perception factors and purchase
criteria, and demographic targets derived from extensive consumer research. 

Improve operating efficiency  - The network restructuring has improved Greyhound s bus
and driver utilization through the creation of regionally based fleets. We are focused on
further improving utilization and lowering per unit costs. 

Information Technology 

Information technology is an integral component of Greyhound s operations and supports, among other
things, Greyhound s website, scheduling and pricing, dispatch, operations planning, bus
maintenance, telephone information center, customer service, point of sale, payroll and finance
functions. Greyhound also uses a proprietary system called TRIPS to provide automated fare and
schedule quotations and to handle the ticketing process. Greyhound has initiatives
underway to expand and enhance its internet based ticket sales and package tracking interfaces in
conjunction with its efforts to increase passenger and package revenue and lower operating costs.

Seasonality 

Our Greyhound business is seasonal in nature and generally follows the pattern of the travel
industry as a whole, with peaks during the summer months and the Christmas holiday season. As a
result, Greyhound s cash flows are also seasonal, with a disproportionate amount of annual cash
flows being generated during the peak travel periods.

Employees 

As of August 31, 2006, Greyhound employed approximately 11,400 workers, consisting primarily of
4,400 drivers, 4,100 terminal employees and information agents, 900 mechanics, and 2,000 management
and administrative staff. Of the total workforce, approximately 80% are full-time employees and
approximately 20% are part-time employees.

At August 31, 2006, approximately 50% of our Greyhound employees were represented by collective
bargaining agreements. Greyhound has agreements with a number of unions, however, the largest
agreement is with the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1700 ( ATU ). This agreement, expiring on
January 31, 2007, covers 84% of Greyhound s U.S. drivers and 45% of Greyhound s U.S. maintenance
employees. While we believe that our relations with employees at Greyhound are good, there is no
assurance that we will be able to successfully negotiate an agreement with the ATU beyond the
current expiration date. If we are unable to extend this agreement, we could experience a
significant disruption of operations and increased operating costs in the future.

10 

Table of Contents   

Safety 

We are committed to ensuring the safety of the passengers we transport every day. Our drivers
operate under very stringent safety standards and undergo thorough background checks and testing at
the time of hire. We require mandatory training both in the classroom and behind the wheel for our
new drivers and we also have extensive on-going driver training and preventative maintenance
programs. These efforts have enabled us to maintain a frequency of accidents at a level that we
believe is one of the lowest in the industry.

Vehicle Fleet 

During the twelve months ended August 31, 2006, Greyhound added approximately 70 buses to its fleet
at a cost of $21.5 million and retired approximately 900 buses from operations, resulting in a
fleet of approximately 2,500 buses. Greyhound also purchased, upon lease expiration, nearly 300
buses already in operations at a cost of $30.4 million, leaving approximately 1,700 buses owned and
800 leased. The average age of Greyhound s bus fleet was 7.6 years at August 31, 2006.

Fuel 

During 2006, Greyhound purchased 46.6 million gallons of fuel and fuel expense represented over 9%
of Greyhound s revenue. In order to mitigate some of the impact of fuel cost increases, Greyhound
may enter into forward purchase contracts or option contracts that hedge against fuel price
fluctuations. Additionally, rising fuel costs have at times allowed Greyhound to increase average
ticket prices and declining fuel costs have at times required Greyhound to lower ticket costs, thus
providing some further hedge against fuel price fluctuations. Due to the effect general economic
conditions may have on the discretionary spending levels of Greyhound s customers and the
competitive nature of the transportation industry, Greyhound is not always able to pass on
increased fuel prices to its customers by increasing its fares. Likewise, increased price
competition and lower demand because of a decline in out-of-pocket costs for automobile use may
offset any potential benefit of lower fuel prices.

Regulation 

As a motor carrier engaged in interstate, as well as intrastate, transportation of passengers and
express shipments, Greyhound is registered with the DOT, and is also regulated by the Surface
Transportation Board. Greyhound is also subject to state and provincial regulations that are
consistent with federal requirements.

Greyhound is subject to regulation under the Americans with Disabilities Act ( ADA ) pursuant to
regulations adopted by the DOT. The regulations require that all new buses acquired by Greyhound
for its U.S. fixed route operations must be equipped with wheelchair lifts. By October 2006,
one-half of Greyhound s U.S. fleet involved in fixed route operations were required to be
lift-equipped, for which Greyhound was in compliance. Additionally, the balance of Greyhound s
U.S. fleet will need to be lift-equipped by October 2012.

In Canada, Greyhound operates under the Canada Transportation Act ( CTA ). The CTA allows each
province to regulate provincial scheduled service. Greyhound generally is required to file tariffs
with schedule and rate information for its passenger services. The CTA does not cover package
express or tour and charter operations; these segments are unregulated in some provinces.

11 

Table of Contents   

PUBLIC TRANSIT SEGMENT 

Services Provided 

Our public transit business is a major provider of the following municipal transportation services
in the United States:

(i)  
       
      Paratransit:  We provide transportation for the mobility challenged which complies with the
ADA. The ADA guarantees persons with disabilities full and equal access to the same services
and accommodations that are available to people without disabilities. Public transit
operators provide paratransit services to persons with disabilities that are comparable to the
level of fixed-route service provided. Our service offerings include curb-to-curb and
door-to-door group and individual dial-a-ride services (76% of revenue); 

(ii)  
       
      Fixed-route:  This service is comprised of public municipal transit bus systems providing
scheduled fixed-route transportation. We operate municipal transit bus systems, including the
recruitment, training and management of drivers, mechanics and support staff needed to provide
such services (23% of revenue); and 

(iii)  
       
      Other:  We provide other transportation services such as shuttle services for corporate
campuses (1% of revenue). 

Competitive Environment 

The public transit market is estimated to be approximately $15 billion based on annual revenue.
The total municipal bus fleet in the United States is estimated to be over 118,000 buses of which
69% are fixed-route vehicles and 31% are paratransit vehicles.

Approximately 85% of transit services is self-operated by municipal transit authorities and the
remainder is out-sourced to private sector providers like ourselves. Most of the out-sourced
transit services are for paratransit transportation. Typically, transit authorities provide the
vehicles and facilities, but rely on private contractors to manage the operation. Transit
authorities are able to receive up to 80% of the capital costs associated with the fleet and the
facilities from the Federal Transit Administration. The barriers to entry for out-sourced transit
services are low as a result of the minimal capital required.

There are four large private operators, including ourselves, that we believe provide approximately
70% of the out-sourced transit services. Two of these other transit providers are subsidiaries of
large foreign-owned transportation companies. The other large operator is a privately held
transportation company based in the United States. We believe we provide approximately 13% of the
out-sourced transit services.

Bidding for contracts has been very competitive as private contractors are seeking to increase
market share. We believe the competitive environment coupled with the tightening of state and
local transit authorities  budgets have contributed to a general reduction in industry
profitability.

Operations 

Our public transit business operates dispatch centers, brokerage operations, management contracts
and total turnkey operations for both paratransit and fixed-route services from 88 locations in 23
states across the United States. We transport more than 40 million passengers per year under 130
different contracts.

Public transit s operations are largely conducted on a decentralized basis although our support
functions are more centralized and include marketing, information systems, and safety functions.

12 

Table of Contents   

We have developed proprietary software that assists with dispatching our fleet and provides route
modification of vehicles in service. This software matches reservations and new trip requests with
existing routes to maximize shared trips, improve vehicle productivity and enhance customer
service.

All of public transit s revenues are generated under contracts, generally with three-year
maturities and two-year extension options. In July 2006, public transit s largest contract, with
annual revenues of $31 million, expired and was not renewed. After this loss, the largest
continuing contract represented 7% of the public transit segment s revenue in 2006.

Employees 

As of August 31, 2006, our public transit business had approximately 6,200 employees, 40% of
whom are unionized under 28 collective bargaining contracts. Ten of the collective bargaining
agreements, representing over 1,000 employees, are subject to renegotiation in fiscal year 2007.
Approximately 14% of our workforce consists of part-time employees.

Driver compensation is market-driven and may be specified by the local Transit Authority during the
competitive bidding process. We believe that our relations with our employees in our public
transit business are good.

Safety 

Public transit operates under very stringent safety standards. In addition to thorough
background checks and testing at the time of hire, we require a minimum of over 60 hours of
training both in the classroom and behind the wheel for new drivers. Additionally, our existing
drivers receive an average of 12 hours of training annually. Over the last few years, we have seen
an improvement in our safety record; in particular, the frequency of incidents has declined.

Vehicle Fleet 

As of August 31, 2006, public transit operated approximately 3,400 revenue-generating
vehicles, of which we own over 1,000, most of which are paratransit vehicles. The remaining units
were owned and provided by customers. Our fleet consists of vans, sedans, body-on-chassis small
buses and transit style buses configured to the individual requirements of each contract. Vehicle
life is usually tied to the contract for which the vehicle is providing services.

Fuel 

Fuel price increases, whenever possible, are passed through to our customers or are subject to
contractual escalation clauses. In some cases, we further mitigate price increases by
incorporating language in our contracts requiring customers to provide the fuel. Of the 9.8
million gallons of fuel purchased annually, over 70% is subject to escalation clauses or the cost
is passed through to our customers. In 2006, fuel expense represented 7% of public transit s
revenues.

Regulation 

Public transit is heavily regulated by federal, state and local agencies and undergoes both
internal and external compliance audits. These regulations set standards for fleet and safety
equipment, bus operations and maintenance, driver qualifications and insurance with which we must
comply.

13 

Table of Contents   

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K
and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The public can obtain copies of
these materials by visiting the Commission s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington
DC 20549, by calling the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330, or by accessing the SEC s website at
http://www.sec.gov. In addition, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are filed
with or furnished to the Commission, we make copies available to the public free of charge on or
through our website at www.laidlaw.com. Copies of our Code of Ethics, as defined under Item 406 of
Regulation S-K, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Director Independence Criteria and Board Committee
Charters can also be accessed on our website. In accordance with Item 5.05(c) of Form 8-K, we will
provide disclosure regarding amendments to our Code of Ethics within four business days following
the amendment thereof. We will provide, at no cost, a copy of our Code of Ethics upon request by
phone or in writing to our corporate address at 55 Shuman Boulevard, Naperville, Illinois 60563
(telephone number: (630) 848-3000), attention: Investor Relations. The information on our website
is not incorporated into, and is not part of, this report.

ITEM 1A.  
       
      RISK FACTORS  

Our businesses face a variety of financial, operating and market risks including the following:

Economic and other market factors, including competitive pressures and changes in pricing policies,
may adversely affect our future financial performance. 

Our businesses compete in the areas of pricing and service and face competitive pressures from
various sources. Both our education and public transit industries are highly fragmented with
several large companies and a substantial number of smaller, locally owned or government-owned
operators. Our competitors in the education services industry can also include many school
districts since most school districts operate their own school bus systems. Similarly, while the
majority of the paratransit bus routes are operated by private entities (including several large
companies), our public transit business also competes with many municipalities as most operate
their own fixed route municipal bus services.

Greyhound s primary sources of competition for passengers are automobile travel, low cost air
travel by both regional and national airlines and, in some markets, regional bus companies and
trains. The automobile is the most significant form of competition to Greyhound. The
out-of-pocket costs of operating an automobile are generally less expensive than bus travel,
particularly for multiple persons traveling in a single car.

There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against these sources of
competition or other competitive or external factors in order to maintain our existing business or
to obtain new business.

The ability of management to implement initiatives designed to increase operating efficiencies or
improve results. 

We are implementing a number of initiatives to improve our operating performance. These
initiatives are designed to allow us to continue to deliver the same quality product for which we
are known, while addressing the price constraints set by our customers.

The goal of education services has been to improve operating margins and more effectively manage
capital employed. A number of areas have been identified where we believe costs can

14 

Table of Contents   

be reduced through the centralization of administrative and financial services and improvements in
our vehicle maintenance and management systems. We are also focusing on growth through
acquisitions and increased charter services.

Greyhound has initiatives underway to rejuvenate its brand and increase ridership by improving the
passenger experience, updating buses and terminals and shifting the brand messaging away from
low-price to one of a good travel experience at a reasonable price. Greyhound will continue to look
for opportunities to contain costs and enhance revenue generated per mile by adjusting frequency
and pricing to match demand patterns.

These initiatives will take some time to fully implement. Additionally, we may be unable to
effectively complete the implementation of these initiatives or the impact of the initiatives may
be less than expected, which could result in lower than expected financial results.

Costs and risks associated with litigation could materially affect our financial results. 

As discussed in Note 15    Legal proceedings  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
the Company is a defendant in various lawsuits primarily involving personal injury, property
damage, environmental or employment related claims. Some of these actions are covered to varying
degrees by insurance policies. Based on known claims and our historical claims payout pattern we
are not aware of any proceeding either threatened or pending against us that would have a material
adverse effect on the Company, although the potential for such litigation to arise in the future
exists.

Changes in interpretations of existing, or the adoption of new, legislation, regulations or other
laws could adversely affect our operations. 

Our businesses are subject to numerous laws regulating safety procedures, equipment specifications,
employment requirements, environmental procedures, insurance coverage and other operating issues.
These laws are constantly subject to change. The costs associated with complying with the adoption
of new legislation, regulations or other laws could adversely affect our results of operations.

Rising labor costs and actions taken by organized labor unions could have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Labor related costs represent over 50% of our operating expenses. Labor shortages, or low
unemployment rates, could hinder our ability to recruit and maintain qualified employees leading to
higher than expected increases in employee compensation. We may also be subjected to a
continuation of the rapid rise in healthcare costs.

Currently, the existence of many local union contracts limits the impact of any individual labor
disruption on our education services operations. However, a coalition of labor unions has been
formed that is focusing on organizing service workers in a number of industries, including student
transportation. If this coalition were to successfully organize a large portion of our education
services work force, we could experience increased operating costs or possibly significant
disruption of operations, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.

Our Greyhound operations have agreements with a number of unions. The largest agreement, with the
ATU, expiring on January 31, 2007, covers 84% of Greyhound s U.S. drivers and 45% of Greyhound s
maintenance employees. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully negotiate an
agreement with the ATU beyond the current expiration date. If we are unable to extend this
agreement, we could experience a significant disruption of operations and increased operating costs
in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

15 

Table of Contents   

Rising fuel costs or potential shortages could have a material adverse affect on our business. 

Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our expenses. Fuel costs have increased to 8.0% of
our revenue for 2006 from 6.6% for 2005 and 5.4% for 2004. Fuel prices and supplies are influenced
significantly by international, political and economic circumstances as well as naturally occurring
disasters. If a fuel supply shortage were to arise from OPEC production curtailments, a disruption
of oil imports or refining capacity due to natural disaster or otherwise, higher fuel prices and
price increases could materially affect our operating results.

Changes in estimated insurance reserves could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition or results of operations. 

Accident claims and insurance expenses are key components of our cost structure. Insurance
reserves are established for estimates of losses that we will ultimately incur on claims that have
been reported but not paid and claims that have been incurred but not reported. These reserves are
based upon actuarial valuations that are periodically prepared by our outside actuaries. The
actuarial valuations consider a number of factors, including historical claim payment patterns and
changes in case reserves, the assumed rate of increase in healthcare costs and property damage
repairs and ultimate court awards. Historical experience and recent trends in the historical
experience are the most significant factors in the determination of these reserves. Given the
magnitude of the claims involved and the length of time until the ultimate cost is known, the use
of any estimation technique in this area is inherently sensitive. Accordingly, our recorded
reserves could differ from our ultimate costs related to these claims due to changes in our
accident reporting, claims payment and settlement practices or claims reserve practices, as well as
differences between assumed and future cost increases.

Terrorism and other acts of violence may have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Terrorist acts and public concerns about potential attacks, including changes in the Homeland
Security threat levels, could adversely affect demand for our services. Additionally, it is
possible that the Transportation Security Administration could mandate security procedures that
exceed the levels currently provided, further increasing costs. As a result, terrorism and other
acts of violence, and any resulting economic downturn, could adversely affect our business, results
of operations and financial condition.

Our Greyhound business is dependent on peak travel periods. 

Greyhound s passenger service is seasonal in nature and generally follows the pattern of the travel
industry as a whole, with peaks during the summer months and the holiday periods. This results in
a disproportionate amount of Greyhound s annual cash flows being generated during the peak travel
periods. Therefore, an event that adversely affects ridership during any of these peak periods
could have a material adverse effect on Greyhound s results of operations.

Pension funding requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operations. 

The Company sponsors several defined benefit pension plans, primarily within our Greyhound
operations. It is the Company s policy to fund the minimum required contribution, which for fiscal
2007 will be $15.8 million. Based upon current regulations and plan asset values at August 31,
2006, and assuming annual investment returns of 6%, the Company does not anticipate any significant
increase in our minimum funding requirements in the near future. However, there is no assurance
that we will be able to earn the assumed rate of return, that new

16 

Table of Contents   

regulations will not prescribe changes in the funding formula, or that there will be market driven
changes in discount rates that would result in the Company being required to make increased
contributions in the future which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
and results of operations.

Other 

The risks described above are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties
not currently known to us or risks and uncertainties we currently view as immaterial or do not
reasonably anticipate occurring, may also impair our business operations.

ITEM 1B.  
       
      UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None

ITEM 2.  
       
      PROPERTIES  

Our education services business operates school buses and special education vehicles from
approximately 450 facilities in the United States and Canada, of which approximately 150 are owned
and approximately 300 are leased or operated under contract. To provide these services, we operate
approximately 41,000 school buses and special education vehicles. Approximately 39,000 of these
vehicles are owned by us while the balance are owned by customers.

Our Greyhound business provides services from approximately 1,600 locations throughout the United
States and Canada. The majority of our locations are owned and operated by independent agents of
Greyhound. Greyhound owns approximately 100 properties and leases approximately 300 properties in
the United States and Canada. Greyhound has a fleet of approximately 2,500 buses, of which
approximately 1,700 buses are owned and approximately 800 are leased.

Our public transit business operates from 88 locations in the United States, of which four are
owned, 70 are leased and the rest are customer owned. To provide these services, we operate
approximately 3,400 revenue-generating vehicles, including 2,600 paratransit vehicles, of which
over 1,000 are owned by us while the remaining units are owned and provided by our customers.

We believe our facilities and equipment are adequate to service our present business needs.

17 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 3.  
       
      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  

General Litigation and Other Disputes 

Contingent Liabilities Relating to Sale of AMR 

The Company sold its healthcare transportation services company, American Medical Response ( AMR ),
to an affiliate of Onex Corporation in accordance with a Stock Purchase Agreement dated December 6,
2004, as amended (the  Stock Purchase Agreement ). Pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase
Agreement, the Company is subject to indemnification obligations related to the matters set forth
below.

On May 9, 2002, AMR received a subpoena duces tecum from the Office of Inspector General for the
United States Department of Health and Human Services. The subpoena required AMR to produce a
broad range of documents relating to contracts in Georgia and Colorado for the period from January
1993 through May 2002. The Company is unaware of any active government investigation arising out
of AMR activities in Georgia or Colorado and, therefore, does not currently believe there is a
material financial exposure related to this matter.

During the first quarter of fiscal 2004, AMR was advised by the U.S. Department of Justice ( DOJ ),
that it was investigating certain business practices at AMR. The specific practices at issue were
(1) whether ambulance transports involving Medicare eligible patients complied with the  medically
necessary  requirement imposed by Medicare regulations, (2) whether patient signatures, when
required, were properly obtained from Medicare eligible patients; and (3) whether discounts in
violation of the Federal Anti-Kickback Act were provided by AMR in exchange for referrals involving
Medicare eligible patients. On September 14, 2006, AMR entered into a Settlement Agreement with
the DOJ related to the above matters. Shortly thereafter, the Company paid AMR an agreed upon
indemnification amount that was within the accrual the Company had previously established with
respect to this matter.

Other 

The Company is also a defendant in various lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business,
primarily cases involving personal injury, property damage, environmental or employment related
claims. Some of these actions are covered to varying degrees by insurance policies. Based on an
assessment of known claims and our historical claims payout pattern, management believes that there
is no proceeding either threatened or pending against us that would have a material adverse effect
on the Company.

Environmental 

Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations
relating to environmental matters, including those concerning emissions to the air; waste water
discharges; storage, treatment and disposal of waste and remediation of soil and ground water
contamination. We have incurred, and expect to incur, costs for our operations to comply with
these legal requirements, and these costs could increase in the future. In particular, we have
been named as a  potentially responsible party  under the United States Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, at various third-party sites at which
our waste was allegedly disposed. In addition, we are investigating or engaged in remediation of
past contamination at other sites used in our businesses. We record liabilities when environmental
liabilities are either known or considered probable and can be reasonably estimated. On an ongoing
basis, management assesses and evaluates environmental risk and, when necessary, conducts
appropriate corrective measures.

At August 31, 2006, the Company had reserved $9.1 million for general environmental liabilities.
Of this amount, $0.4 million was reserved for fourteen superfund sites, where we are a de

18 

Table of Contents   

minimis contributor in virtually all cases, and $8.7 million is reserved for ongoing
remediation at approximately 60 owned or leased facilities. The largest liability established for
remediation at a specific site is approximately $1.2 million.

The adoption of a new accounting pronouncement ( FIN 47 ) issued in March 2005 required the Company
to recognize additional liabilities. Therefore, the Company has also recorded $8.8 million of
liability for asset retirement obligations triggered by environmental laws and regulations related
to the remediation and abatement of asbestos containing materials and disposal of fuel storage
tanks. The Company has approximately 250 facilities with asbestos containing materials with the
largest exposure at any individual location amounting to $0.4 million. Additionally, this
liability covers disposal costs for approximately 360 fuel storage tanks. See Note 12    Change in
accounting principle  in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
disclosures related to these obligations.

Management believes that adequate accruals have been made related to all known environmental
matters, however actual environmental liabilities could differ significantly from these estimates.

ITEM 4.  
       
      SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

None.

ITEM 4A.  
       
      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

The executive officers of Laidlaw International as of October 31, 2006 are as follows.

Name  
       
      Age  
       
      Position  

Kevin E. Benson

59 

Director, President and Chief Executive Officer 

Beth Byster Corvino

49 

Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary 

Mary B. Jordan

47 

Executive Vice President, Human Resources and
Internal Communications 

Jeffrey W. Sanders

44 

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 

Jeffery A. McDougle

50 

Vice President, Treasurer 

Biographical information relating to each of our officers is set forth below.

Kevin E. Benson  has been President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of the Company since
June 2003. From September 2002 to June 2003, Mr. Benson was President and Chief Executive Officer
of the Company s predecessor, Laidlaw Inc. Laidlaw Inc. and Laidlaw Investments Ltd. filed
petitions for chapter 11 protection in June 2001 and in June 2003 Laidlaw Investments Ltd. emerged
from bankruptcy and reorganized as Laidlaw International, Inc., a Delaware company. Prior to that,
Mr. Benson served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Insurance Corporation of British
Columbia, an insurance company, from December 2001 until September 2002 and as President of The
Pattison Group, a privately owned company that owns interests in numerous businesses across a range
of industries, in 2000 and 2001. He previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of
Canadian Airlines from 1996 until 2000. Mr. Benson also serves as a director of TransCanada
Pipelines Ltd.

19 

Table of Contents   

Beth Byster Corvino  has been Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of
the Company since July 2005 and had served as Senior Vice President since April 2004. From April
1998 to April 2004 she served as Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, and then
as a consultant to, Chas. Levy Company LLC, a book and magazine wholesaler, where she was
responsible for all legal affairs and strategic planning, and served as Chief Operating Officer of
its trucking subsidiary.

Mary B. Jordan  has been Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Internal Communications of
the Company since July 2006. From April 2004 to March 2006 she served as the Provincial Executive
Director for the British Columbia Centre for Disease Control in Vancouver. She previously served
from September 2001 to June 2003 as Senior Vice President, Air Canada, International and British
Columbia, and from June 2000 to September 2001 as President of Air Canada s low cost subsidiary.
Ms. Jordan also serves as a director of the Vancouver International Airport Authority.

Jeffrey W. Sanders  has been Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of the Company since July 2006.
From August 2003 until July 2006 he served as Vice President, Corporate Development and as
Controller since January 2004. From May 1999 until July 2003 he served as Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of Greyhound Lines, Inc. Mr. Sanders joined Greyhound Lines, Inc. in
June 1997 as Vice President, Corporate Development and from September 1997 through May 1999 served
as Vice President Finance.

Jeffery A. McDougle  has been Vice President and Treasurer since February 2004. From July 2003
until January 2004, he served as Vice President of Fleet at US Airways Inc. From April 2002 until
July 2003, Mr. McDougle served as Vice President of Finance and Treasurer for US Airways Group,
where in addition to his treasury functions, he was responsible for corporate finance, corporate
insurance and purchasing. In addition, he served as Vice President   Purchasing of US Airways, Inc.
from November 2001 to April 2002 and Vice President   Treasurer of US Airways Group from May 1999
to November 2001. US Airways Group and its subsidiary US Airways Inc. filed a petition for Chapter
11 protection on August 11, 2002 and later emerged from bankruptcy on March 31, 2003. US Airways
Group and its subsidiary US Airways Inc. subsequently re-filed a petition for Chapter 11 protection
on September 12, 2004 and then emerged from bankruptcy on September 27, 2005.

20 

Table of Contents   

PART II 

ITEM 5.  
       
      MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) under the symbol  LI .

The following table details the high and low sale prices of our common stock for the years ended
August 31, 2006 and 2005.

On October 31, 2006, the last sale price of the common stock as reported by the NYSE was $29.01 per
share and there were 52 holders of record of our common stock.

During 2006, the Company paid cash dividends to stockholders of $0.60 per share. While the Company
intends to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, all subsequent dividends will be reviewed
quarterly and declared by the Board, or a committee thereof, at its discretion and will depend upon
the Company s results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, restrictions contained
in credit and other agreements and other factors deemed relevant.

Summary of Equity Compensation Plans  

The Company s 2003 Amended and Restated Equity and Performance Incentive Plan ( 2003 Incentive
Plan ) provides for the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted shares,
deferred shares, performance shares, and performance units to officers and employees of the Company
and its subsidiaries. The 2003 Incentive Plan also provides for the grant of option rights and
restricted stock to non-employee directors. There were 5,000,000 shares of common stock initially
available to be issued under the 2003 Incentive Plan. In any calendar year, no participant may be
granted more than 500,000 option rights, appreciation rights, deferred shares, or restricted
shares, or more than $1,000,000 worth of performance shares or performance units determined on the
date of the grant.

21 

Table of Contents   

Securities authorized for issuance under compensation plans as of August 31, 2006 are summarized
below:

Available for 

Number of 

future issuance 

shares to be issued 
       
     Weighted-average 
       
     under equity 

upon exercise of 
       
     exercise price of 
       
     compensation plans 

outstanding 
       
     outstanding 
       
     (excluding shares 

options, warrants 
       
     options, warrants 
       
     reflected in column 

and rights 
       
     and rights 
       
     (a)) 

Plan Category 
       
     (a) 
       
     (b) 
       
     (c) 

Equity compensation
plans approved by
shareholders

2,087,738 
       
     $18.15 * 
       
     2,431,653 

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by shareholders

None 
       
     None 
       
     None 

Total

2,087,738 
       
     $18.15 * 
       
     2,431,653 

Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer  

Purchases made under the Company s stock repurchase programs for the three months ended August 31,
2006 were as follows:

(1) 
       
     Effective January 5, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program to
acquire up to $200 million of our outstanding stock. As of May 31, 2006, 2,821,200 shares had
been repurchased at an aggregate cost of $76.8 million. 

(2) 
       
     On July 6, 2006 we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the Company to
repurchase an additional $376.8 million of our outstanding common stock. This authorization,
in combination with the remaining amount authorized under the previously announced buyback
program, allowed the Company to repurchase up to $500 million of our outstanding stock. 

(3) 
       
     On August 7, 2006, we repurchased 15,557,985 million shares of common stock for $26.90 per
share through a modified  Dutch  auction tender offer. Additionally, we repurchased 480,000
shares on the open market at an average price of $26.29 per share. 

22 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6.  
       
      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

The following information should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements,
 Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and
 Business  included elsewhere in this filing.

* 
       
     In June 2001 Laidlaw Inc. (the  Predecessor Company ) filed a voluntary petition for
bankruptcy protection under chapter 11, engaged in an internal restructuring and, in June
2003, the Company emerged from bankruptcy protection. In accordance with the principles of
fresh start accounting, the Company adjusted its assets and liabilities to their estimated
fair values as of June 1, 2003. Due to the changes in the financial structure of the Company
the consolidated financial statements of the Company issued subsequent to the application of
fresh start accounting may not be comparable with the consolidated financial statements issued
by the Predecessor Company prior to the application of fresh start accounting. A black line
has been drawn on the schedule above to separate and distinguish between the Company and the
Predecessor Company. 

** 
       
     The year ended August 31, 2005 includes $72.2 million of debt restructuring costs. The nine
months ended May 31, 2003 includes a net gain on extinguishment of debt of $1,482.8 million,
charges to income for fresh start accounting adjustments of $547.4 million and a goodwill
impairment charge of $636.4 million. 

*** 
       
     The year ended August 31, 2005 includes a $238.6 million gain on sale of the Company s
healthcare businesses. The nine months ended May 31, 2003 includes charges to income of
$1,569.0 million for goodwill impairment and $62.2 million for fresh start accounting
adjustments. 

**** 
       
     All balance sheet data on May 31, 2003 has been adjusted for fresh start accounting
adjustments. 

23 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7.  
       
      MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

OVERVIEW 

Laidlaw International, Inc. and its subsidiaries are North America s largest providers of school
and inter-city bus transport services and a leading supplier of public transit services. Our
businesses operate under the brands: Laidlaw Education Services, Greyhound Lines, Greyhound Canada
and Laidlaw Transit, and in three reportable segments:

Education services . Through our education services segment, we provide school bus transportation
in the United States and Canada. We operate traditional school buses and special education
vehicles to transport more than two million students each school day.

Greyhound . Greyhound is the only national provider of scheduled intercity bus transportation
services in the United States and Canada. Greyhound also provides package delivery services in
conjunction with the scheduled passenger operation, charter bus services and, in certain terminals,
food service.

Public transit . Our public transit segment provides municipal, fixed-route bus transportation and
paratransit bus services throughout the United States. Paratransit bus services offers
transportation for riders with disabilities or who are unable to use the fixed route services.

YEAR IN REVIEW 

Fiscal 2006 was a year of success and achievement. With a smaller, more focused portfolio of
transportation service businesses, we continued throughout 2006 to pursue our strategy of achieving
operational excellence by improving performance of each of our segments, developing opportunities
for revenue growth and delivering tangible value for our shareholders.

Education Services    Fiscal 2006 represented the third year of implementing a strategy that draws
on our leadership position in the student transportation industry to improve the operating
efficiencies of the business. A review of the contracts up for renewal indicated $91 million of
contractual revenue was providing returns below sustainable levels. Under our  up or out  policy,
we were able to retain 82% of these contracts, repriced at more appropriate rates when the new
contracts commence in fiscal 2007. The rising cost of fuel put pressure on margins, but we were
able to mitigate its impact as a result of improved pricing on low margin contracts and improved
operating efficiencies. In addition to continuing our system-wide consolidation efforts of
administrative functions, the business moved closer to our goal of using technology to improve
operating controls and margin expansion. We completed the development of a vehicle maintenance
system during the year and tested it at a number of branch locations. With positive feedback from
the testing phase, we plan to distribute the system throughout the branch network in the second
half of fiscal 2007. The technology development of a vehicle monitoring system that provides
real-time performance measurements is continuing. Finally, after two years of deliberately flat
revenue, Education services realized top-line growth, benefiting in part from price increases and a
net gain in contracts.

Greyhound    During 2006, Greyhound completed its network transformation, eliminating unprofitable
routes and frequencies, and reducing low-yielding, long distance trips. The restructuring of the
network has reduced variable costs and increased revenue per bus mile. After years with relatively
little change to ticket prices, Greyhound implemented a series of price increases, totaling nearly
11%, throughout the year. We believe the sharp increase in gasoline costs, as well as faster
schedules from the network transformation helped support the demand as we instituted the ticket
price increases. Consumer bus-travel demand, especially in the

24 

Table of Contents   

southern United States, was also positively influenced by the severe hurricanes that occurred in
2006. Implementation of a strategy to rejuvenate the brand and increase ridership is underway.
Using market research and feedback from test markets, Greyhound began updating its terminals and
buses in order to enhance the travel experience, and intends over the next 18 months to roll out
these changes throughout the network.

Public Transit    Revenue growth was a challenge for public transit during 2006. While winning 11
new contracts with annualized revenues of $22 million during the year, the Company was unsuccessful
in retaining a large contract   $31 million in annualized revenues   and, as a result, is likely
to see revenue decline slightly in fiscal 2007. Revenue development efforts continue to be a
primary focus. We launched a management training program in 2006 to develop project managers,
especially for new contracts. With much of public transit s revenue from long-term contracts, the
rise in fuel costs during 2006 hurt margins. We continue to focus on growing revenue through new
contracts and realizing an expansion of margins through improved operating efficiencies.

The results of the businesses contributed to our ability to pay a dividend of $0.60 per common
share and to initiate share repurchase programs. In January 2006, we launched a stock purchase
plan and repurchased $77 million of common stock through open market purchases from January through
April 2006. A subsequent $500 million stock purchase program was implemented with the initiation
of a modified  Dutch  auction tender offer and a corresponding $500 million term B debt facility to
fund the buyback. Through the tender offer, the Company repurchased $419 million of common stock,
and was authorized to purchase the remaining balance, or $81 million, through open market
purchases. As of year end, we had purchased an additional $12 million of common shares leaving $69
million authorized for future purchases. All authorized amounts had been repurchased by October
31, 2006.

The incremental $500 million term B debt facility, used to repurchase shares of our common stock,
increased the leverage of the Company and contributed to a more efficient balance sheet and capital
structure. Despite the increase in debt, we were able to maintain an investment grade rating with
Standard   Poors.

The progress we made in 2006 was substantial, especially in light of the tough fuel environment.
As we look forward, there is still much to do at each of our businesses as they focus on improved
performance through operational excellence.

25 

Table of Contents   

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Results of operations for the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 ($ in millions): 

Operating income as a percentage of revenue: 

26 

Table of Contents   

Results by reportable segment 

The Company s reportable segments are business units that offer different services and are each
managed separately. The Company evaluates performance and allocates resources based on operating
income before depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ). A reconciliation of EBITDA to consolidated
net income from continuing operations is presented in Note 16    Segment information  in the Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Education services  

* 
       
     Increase (decrease) in EBITDA margin is expressed in basis points 

Revenue increased by $61.3 million for the year ended August 31, 2006 compared to 2005. The
improvement resulted from new customer additions, price increases, route additions on existing
contracts, a favorable Canadian dollar exchange rate, an increase in extracurricular and charter
activity and increased billings from fuel price escalation clauses, which more than offset revenue
lost from contracts that were not renewed. The increase in the value of the Canadian currency
represented $16.0 million of the increase in revenue.

Revenue in 2005 increased by $22.4 million compared to 2004. Nearly two thirds of the increase was
due to a strengthening of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar that had the effect of
increasing revenue by $14.6 million. The remaining increase was due to revenue on new business,
price increases, route additions on existing contracts, and additional charter activity which more
than offset revenue declines from lost contracts.

EBITDA decreased $1.5 million in 2006 compared to 2005 and the EBITDA margin declined by 90 basis
points. Fuel expense increases due to higher prices were somewhat offset by improvements in
compensation and insurance costs. Compensation costs decreased as a percentage of revenue
primarily due to improved pricing on certain contracts, while the improvement in insurance costs is
principally due to a reduction in accident frequency.

EBITDA improved by $16.7 million in 2005 compared to 2004 and the EBITDA margin improved by 80
basis points primarily due to lower insurance costs offset somewhat by higher fuel prices and
increased vehicle maintenance costs. Insurance costs declined in 2005 due to favorable trends in
accident frequency along with improvements in the development of insurance losses from previous
years.

27 

Table of Contents   

Greyhound  

* 
       
     Increase in EBITDA margin is expressed in basis points 

Revenue increased $42.6 million in 2006 compared to 2005, principally due to higher ticket
prices and a favorable Canadian dollar exchange rate somewhat offset by passenger reductions due to
both network changes and increased ticket prices. Additionally, revenue in 2006 benefited from
increased passenger volume in regions of the U.S. with high instances of individuals dislocated by
the severe hurricanes that occurred in the Gulf Coast. The increase in the value of the Canadian
currency increased 2006 revenues by $19.7 million.

Revenue in 2005 declined $28.9 million compared to 2004, primarily due to a decrease in passenger
services and tour and charter revenue, somewhat offset by an increase in the Canadian exchange
rate. Had there been no change in the Canadian exchange rate, revenue would have decreased by
$48.7 million compared to 2004. Passenger revenue and miles driven were down due to management
reducing lower yielding long-distance trips and eliminating low-performing routes or frequencies.
Tour and charter revenue declined $17.2 million mostly due to the sale of several tour and charter
businesses in 2005.

EBITDA for the year ended August 31, 2006 benefited from insurance gains of $8.4 million to
compensate for hurricane damages and $5.0 million due as compensation for losses incurred during
the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, while EBITDA for the year ended August 31, 2005 included
a $5.8 million loss on disposition of several tour and charter businesses in western Canada.
Excluding these items, EBITDA margin improved 210 basis points in 2006 compared to 2005 and 410
basis points compared to 2004. The increase in EBITDA margin is due to increased ticket prices,
coupled with improvements in passenger load due to the transformation of our networks, which
resulted in significant increases in revenue per bus mile. Elimination of unproductive bus miles
has led to a reduction in variable costs that were partially offset by an increase in fuel prices
and insurance costs.

28 

Table of Contents   

Public transit  

* 
       
     Increase in EBITDA margin is expressed in basis points 

Revenue increased slightly in 2006 compared to 2005 as revenue lost from contracts that were
not renewed was more than offset by revenue gains from new contracts, route additions on existing
contracts and increased billings from fuel price escalation clauses. The fiscal 2007 results will
lose the benefit of a major operating contract that provided approximately $31 million of annual
revenue that was not renewed. However, the Company has also won several new contracts during the
year which will mitigate much of the loss.

Revenue improved $6.2 million for the year ended August 31, 2005 compared to the year ended August
31, 2004. The increase was principally due to the addition of routes and services on existing
contracts as revenue generated from newly acquired contracts was largely offset by revenue lost
from existing contracts that were not renewed.

EBITDA in 2006 includes a $3.8 million gain on the sale of one of our facilities. Excluding this
gain, EBITDA and EBITDA margin declined slightly in 2006 compared to 2005. Higher fuel and
compensation costs were mostly offset by improved insurance costs. EBITDA in 2005 improved $8.1
million compared to 2004 and the EBITDA margin improved 250 basis points primarily due to lower
insurance costs. Insurance costs as a percentage of revenue were 6.8% in 2006 and 7.8% in 2005
compared to 10.9% in 2004.

Depreciation and amortization 

Depreciation and amortization by business segment is as follows ($ in millions):

Depreciation and amortization expense decreased in 2006 compared to 2005, principally due to an
increase in the estimated useful life and salvage value of certain classes of school buses in the
education services segment. Depreciation and amortization expenses in 2005 increased over 2004,
primarily due to a decrease in the estimated useful life and salvage value of certain older
Greyhound buses.

Depreciation in 2007 will increase due to increased investment in the education services fleet and
because changes in estimated lives that reduced 2006 depreciation expense will have a declining
impact in future years.

29 

Table of Contents   

Interest expense 

Interest expense was $24.3 million, $70.8 million and $78.6 million for the years ended August 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The decrease in 2006 and 2005 compared to 2004 was due to
changes made to our debt structure during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 that reduced the amount
of our outstanding debt and lowered overall interest rates. The July 2006 addition of a $500
million term loan will increase interest expense in future years.

Other income, net 

Other income, net was $10.4 million, $10.5 million and $2.1 million for the years ended August 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and was primarily related to income on investments. A currency
transaction gain of $1.7 million was recorded in 2006 relating to the effect of a stronger Canadian
dollar on U.S. dollar denominated debt of our Canadian subsidiaries. Other income, net in 2005
also included $2.1 million received from the finalization of Greyhound s 1990 bankruptcy
proceedings and 2005 and 2004 included income from reimbursements of legal fees expensed in
previous periods to defend former directors and officers from claims that arose prior to the
Company s emergence from bankruptcy.

Debt restructuring costs 

In 2005, we incurred a $112.2 million charge relating to the retirement of Greyhound s publicly
traded debt and the repurchase of substantially all of our 10  3  / 4 % Senior Notes. A $70.7 million
charge incurred to repurchase the notes was principally comprised of tender premiums and consent
fees. An additional non-cash charge of $41.5 million resulted from the write-off of deferred
financing fees and discounts associated with the retired debt.

Income taxes 

Tax expense during 2006 includes a $5.9 million charge related to the repatriation of $196.2
million from the Company s Canadian subsidiaries. The 2004 tax provision includes a benefit of
$6.6 million due to a change in the Canadian tax rate. Excluding these items, the effective tax
rate was 38% for the year ended August 31, 2006 compared to 40% for the year ended August 31, 2004
and a tax benefit of 26% for the year ended August 31, 2005. The low effective tax rate in 2005
was principally due to a portion of the debt restructuring costs not providing any state tax
benefit.

Discontinued operations 

Income from discontinued operations includes the operating results of our healthcare transportation
services ( AMR ) and emergency management services segments through the date of their sale on
February 10, 2005. Income from discontinued operations for the year ended August 31, 2005 includes
a $238.6 million gain on sale of these businesses. The loss from discontinued operations for the
year ended August 31, 2006 is principally due to the $10 million settlement of a claim that arose
following the sale regarding the valuation of accounts receivables at AMR.

Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 

FIN 47, issued in March 2005, requires the recognition of a liability for the fair value of a
conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value can be reasonably estimated, even though
uncertainty exists as to the timing and method of settlement. An asset retirement obligation
( ARO ) is a legal obligation to perform certain activities in connection with retirement, disposal
or abandonment of assets. See Note 12    Change in accounting principle  in the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

30 

Table of Contents   

We adopted FIN 47 on August 31, 2006 and recognized a non-cash cumulative effect charge, net of
taxes, of $3.7 million for ARO s related to the cost of removal and disposal of asbestos and the
costs of disposal of fuel storage tanks.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

At August 31, 2006, cash and cash equivalents totalled $318.7 million, which will support payment
of the short term financing used to purchase vehicles, continue our common stock repurchase program
and fund the anticipated cash outflow during the first quarter of 2007 due to the cyclical nature
of cash flows from our education services segment. Significant cash outflows occur at the start of
the school year creating a lag between the cash expended to provide services and the collection of
receivables related to those services. Likewise, collection of receivables in the fourth quarter
exceeds the outlay of cash due to the near shutdown of operations during the school vacation
season.

Net cash provided by operating activities increased to $473.6 million for the year ended August 31,
2006 compared to $266.9 million for the year ended August 31, 2005 principally due to increased
operating earnings, lower interest costs and the replacement of insurance program cash collateral
with letters of credit. Additionally, expenditures related to the debt restructuring significantly
reduced total cash provided from operating activities in 2005.

Purchases of property and equipment in 2006 increased to $329.3 million compared to $186.6 million
in 2005. The increase primarily reflects increased investment in the fleet of the education
services segment due to new contract wins and restrained spending in the prior year. Additionally,
there is an increased level of bus buyouts at lease expiration at Greyhound as well as spending for
replacement buses damaged by hurricane Katrina.

Proceeds from the disposal of property and equipment increased to $39.2 million in 2006 compared to
$34.2 million in 2005. Fiscal 2006 includes $12.2 million of insurance proceeds received to
replace buses damaged by hurricane Katrina, while 2005 includes proceeds of $13.0 million from the
sale of a Greyhound garage.

During 2006, we paid dividends of $0.60 per share to our shareholders.

Share repurchase program 

Effective January 5, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program to
acquire up to $200 million of our outstanding stock. Through July 5, 2006, we had repurchased
approximately 2.8 million shares at an average cost of $27.18 per share through open market
purchases, leaving $123.2 million authorized for future repurchases under the program. On July 6,
2006 we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the Company to repurchase an
additional $376.8 million of our outstanding common stock. This authorization, in combination with
the remaining amount authorized under the previously announced buyback program, allowed the Company
to repurchase an additional $500 million. In August 2006 we repurchased approximately 15.5 million
shares for $26.90 per share through a modified  Dutch  auction tender offer. Additionally, we
repurchased approximately 0.5 million shares on the open market at an average price of $26.29 per
share leaving $68.9 million available for future repurchases. As of October 31, 2006, we had
completed the repurchase of all authorized amounts.

Future stock repurchases may be made through open market and privately negotiated transactions at
times, and in such amounts, as management deems appropriate. The timing and amount of shares
repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including price, corporate and regulatory
requirements and other market conditions. The stock repurchase program does not have an expiration
date and may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice.

31 

Table of Contents   

Credit Facilities 

In July 2006, the Company amended its existing senior secured credit facilities ( Credit
Facilities ) to consist of a $277.5 million term loan due June 2010 ( Term A Facility ), a $300
million revolving credit facility ( Revolver ) and add a $500 million term loan due July 2013
( Term B Facility ).

Principal on the Term A Facility is payable in quarterly installments of $7.5 million from
September 30, 2006 through June 30, 2007, $11.25 million from September 30, 2007 through June 30,
2009, $37.5 million from September 30, 2009 through March 31, 2010 with a final payment of $45.0
million due on June 30, 2010.

The Term B Facility consists of a $375 million loan to Laidlaw International, Inc. and a $125 loan
to its Canadian subsidiaries. Principal is payable in 26 quarterly installments of $1.25 million
from December 31, 2006 through March 31, 2013 and a final payment of $467.5 million is due on July
31, 2013.

The $300 million Revolver was established to fund the Company s working capital and letter of
credit needs. It has a $200 million sub-limit for letters of credit, a $15 million sub-limit for
swingline loans and a $50 million sub-limit for Canadian dollar borrowings and Canadian dollar
letters of credit by Canadian borrowers. On August 31, 2006, there were $22.0 million of cash
borrowings and there were issued letters of credit of $118.6 million, leaving $159.4 million of
availability. The $22.0 million cash borrowings are classified as long term based on the Company s
intent and ability under the terms of the Revolver.

Interest on the Credit Facilities  U.S. borrowings is based on the applicable margin plus the LIBOR
rate. Alternatively, at the Company s option, interest can be calculated using the applicable
margin plus a base rate ( Base Rate ) which is the highest of:  (a)  the base rate of Citibank, N.A.,
 (b)  the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or  (c)  the latest three-month certificates of deposit, as
determined by Citibank, N.A. and adjusted for the cost of reserves and FDIC insurance assessments
plus 0.50%.

The applicable margin used for the Term A Facility and the Revolver is dependent on the Company s
debt rating and ranges from 0.60% to 2.00% for the LIBOR rate and ranges from 0.0% to 1.0% for the
Base Rate. The applicable margin used for the Term B Facility is 1.75% for the LIBOR rate and
0.75% for the Base Rate.

The Company established a cash flow hedge by entering into interest rate agreements ( SWAP s ) with
counterparties in order to convert one half of the outstanding Term A Facility principal balance
from floating rate debt to fixed rate debt with a weighted average interest rate of 5.5% based upon
the applicable margin in effect on August 31, 2006. The notional amounts of the SWAP s are
amortizing in tandem with the scheduled principal payments on the Term A Facility and will expire
in June 2010

Interest on Canadian dollar borrowings under the Revolver is based on the applicable margin plus
the Canadian prime rate. Alternatively, at the Company s option, interest can be calculated using
the applicable margin plus the Canadian dollar bankers  acceptance rate.

In addition to interest due on any amounts outstanding, the Company is also responsible for certain
commitment and letter of credit fees.

The Credit Facilities are guaranteed by the Company s wholly-owned U.S. and Canadian subsidiaries
excluding the Company s insurance subsidiaries. However, the Canadian subsidiaries  guarantees and
collateral only support the loans made to the Canadian borrowers.

32 

Table of Contents   

Terms included in the Credit Facilities require that the Company meet certain financial covenants
including a leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio, as well as certain non-financial covenants.
As of August 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance with all such covenants.

The Company requires significant cash flows to finance capital expenditures and to meet its debt
service and other continuing obligations. We believe that existing cash and cash flow from
operations, together with borrowings under our Revolver as necessary, will be sufficient to fund
our anticipated capital expenditures and working capital requirements for the foreseeable future,
including payment obligations under our debt agreements and other commitments.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

As described in Note 8    Commitments and contingencies  in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, we have entered into vehicle operating leases that contain residual value guarantees.
The residual value guarantees were included as part of these operating leases in order to reduce
costs. Of those leases that contain residual value guarantees, the aggregate residual value at
lease expiration is $88.3 million of which we have guaranteed $55.4 million. At August 31, 2006,
management estimates that the residual value on certain leases will exceed the projected fair
market value of the underlying buses by $1.8 million and has established appropriate reserves for
this estimated liability.

Contractual obligations 

We have entered into certain contractual obligations that will require various payments over future
periods as follows ($ in millions):

* 
       
     Excluding capital lease obligations. 

** 
       
     For variable rate debt we used the applicable margin and interest rate in effect at August
31, 2006 for all periods presented. Amounts include the effects of interest rate swaps. 

*** 
       
     The Company is unable to determine required funding beyond 2007. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions
relating to the reporting of results of operations, financial condition and related disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. Actual results may
differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The following are our most
critical accounting policies, which are those that require management s most difficult, subjective
and complex judgments, requiring the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are
inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods.

33 

Table of Contents   

Claims liability and insurance reserves 

We are self-insured up to certain limits for costs associated with workers  compensation claims,
vehicle accidents and general business liabilities. Reserves are established for estimates of the
loss that we will ultimately incur on claims that have been reported but not paid and claims that
have been incurred but not reported. These reserves are based upon actuarial valuations that are
prepared by our outside actuaries. The actuarial valuations consider a number of factors,
including historical claim payment patterns and changes in case reserves, the assumed rate of
increase in healthcare costs and property damage repairs and ultimate court awards. Historical
experience and recent trends in the historical experience are the most significant factors in the
determination of these reserves. We believe the use of actuarial methods to account for these
reserves provides a consistent and effective way to measure these subjective accruals. However,
given the magnitude of the claims involved and the length of time until the ultimate cost is known,
the use of any estimation technique in this area is inherently sensitive. Accordingly, our
recorded reserves could differ from our ultimate costs related to these claims due to changes in
our accident reporting, claims payment and settlement practices or claims reserve practices, as
well as differences between assumed and future cost increases.

Income tax valuation allowance 

We have significant net deferred tax assets resulting from net operating losses ( NOL ), capital
loss and interest deduction carry forwards and other deductible temporary differences that will
reduce taxable income in future periods. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109
 Accounting for Income Taxes  requires that a valuation allowance be established when it is  more
likely than not  that all or a portion of net deferred tax assets will not be realized. A review
of all available positive and negative evidence needs to be considered, including expected
reversals of significant deductible temporary differences, a company s recent financial
performance, the market environment in which a company operates, tax planning strategies and the
length of carryforward periods. Furthermore, the weight given to the potential effect of negative
and positive evidence should be commensurate with the extent to which it can be objectively
verified.

At August 31, 2006, management provided a full valuation allowance against $464 million of deferred
tax assets related to capital loss carryforwards as capital losses may only be applied against
capital gains and we do not generate capital gains in the ordinary course. However, future
unforeseen events may result in capital gains, which would allow us to utilize some or all of these
capital loss carryforwards. Conversely, virtually no valuation allowance is provided against the
remaining $307 million of deferred tax assets, principally comprised of NOL and interest deduction
carryforwards, as management believes that it is more likely than not that the Company will produce
sufficient taxable income in the future to fully recover these deferred tax assets. If there are
changes in market or operating conditions that reduce management s estimate of future taxable
income this may require the establishment of a valuation allowance against these deferred tax
assets in the future. Any future increase, or decrease, in the valuation allowance will give rise
to an increase, or decrease, in tax expense.

Pension 

Our obligation and expense for pension benefits are determined using actuarial methods that are
dependent on the selection of certain assumptions and factors. These include assumptions about the
discount rate, the expected return on plan assets and the rate of future compensation increases as
determined by management. We determine the discount rate based upon the yield available on a
portfolio of high quality, fixed-income debt instruments matched against the timing and amounts of
projected future benefits. For the year ended August 31, 2006,
we assumed a 5.2% discount rate.
A 25 basis point increase or decrease in last year s discount rate would have increased or
decreased our annual pension expense by approximately $2.5 million.

34 

Table of Contents   

The expected return on plan assets is based on plan-specific historical long-term portfolio
performance, asset allocations and investment strategies and the views of the plans  investment
advisors. The assumptions and factors we use may differ materially from the actual return on our
plan assets. For the year ended August 31, 2006, we assumed a 6.4% long-term rate of return on our
plan assets. A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the long-term rate of return would have
increased or decreased our annual pension expense by approximately $2.2 million.

Our rate of increase in future compensation levels is based primarily on labor contracts currently
in effect with our employees under collective bargaining agreements and expected future pay rate
increases for other employees. In addition, our actuarial consultants also use factors to estimate
such items as retirement age and mortality tables, which are primarily based upon historical plan
experience. These assumptions may differ materially from actual results due to changing market
conditions, earlier or later retirement ages or longer or shorter life spans of participants.
These differences may significantly impact the amount of our pension obligation and expense.

ITEM 7A.  
       
      QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

The following discussion about our market risk includes  forward-looking statements  that involve
risk and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from these projections. We are
currently exposed to market risk from changes in commodity prices for fuel, investment prices,
foreign exchange and interest rates. We do not use derivative instruments for speculative or
trading purposes.

Commodity Prices 

During the year ended August 31, 2006, fuel costs, which are subject to market risk from changes in
the price of fuel, represented 8% of our revenue. In fiscal 2007 we anticipate that approximately
50% of our fuel purchases will be protected from this market risk through customer reimbursed fuel,
contract escalation clauses, option contracts ( Fuel Collars ) and forward purchase contracts
( FPCs ).

In 2006 we purchased 109.1 million gallons of fuel at a cost of $250.5 million. A 10% increase or
decrease in the cost of fuel on our 2006 fuel usage requirements, assuming 50% was unprotected,
would have had a $12.5 million effect on our fuel costs.

During 2006, we began to hedge a portion of our diesel fuel purchases by entering into Fuel
Collars, which effectively create a cap on the future purchase price of a certain amount of fuel
and at the same time, limit the amount of benefit to the Company in a falling future price market.
We create the Fuel Collar by purchasing a call option for diesel fuel while simultaneously selling
a put option that covers the identical amount of fuel with the same underlying terms and conditions
as the call option. During 2006, we entered into Fuel Collars for 21.5 million gallons of diesel
fuel of which 15.0 million gallons remain outstanding at August 31, 2006. All outstanding Fuel
Collars will expire in fiscal 2007. Should the price of diesel fuel increase by 10% from the spot
price on August 31, 2006, we would realize a $1.0 million gain while a 10% decrease in price would
result in a $3.3 million loss.

At August 31, 2006, we had an inventory of fuel of 2.6 million gallons and advance purchase
commitments to purchase an additional 1.4 million gallons of fuel. A 10% increase or decrease in
fuel costs would not have a material effect on the value of our inventory or our FPCs.

35 

Table of Contents   

Investment Prices 

We currently have exposure in the market price of our equity investments, primarily as part of our
insurance collateral. At August 31, 2006, we had $48.6 million of equity investments. A 10%
decrease in the market price of our equity security investment would have a $4.9 million effect on
the total fair value of our investments.

Foreign Exchange 

We currently conduct 16% of our business in Canada and our Canadian operations hold $125 million of
U.S. dollar denominated debt, therefore, we are exposed to market risk as the value of the Canadian
dollar changes relative to the value of the U.S dollar. A 10% change in the Canadian foreign
currency exchange rate would affect our operating revenue by $51 million, operating income by $4
million, income before taxes by $16 million and total assets by $38 million.

Interest Rate Sensitivity 

We currently have exposure to interest rates from our long-term debt and debt securities held in
our insurance collateral investment portfolio.

At August 31, 2006, we had $800 million of floating rate debt of which $139 million was effectively
converted into fixed rate debt through the utilization of interest rate swap agreements. A 100
basis point increase or decrease in variable interest rates would affect our future interest
expense cash flows by approximately $6.5 million per year.

At August 31, 2006, we had $245.3 million of investments in debt securities, net of an unrealized
loss of $9.7 million as discussed in Note 3    Insurance collateral  in the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. A 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would
have an $8.1 million effect on the total fair value of our investments in debt securities.

ITEM 8.  
       
      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

See Index to Financial Information on page F-1.

ITEM 9.  
       
      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

None.

ITEM 9A.  
       
      CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

As required by Rule 13a-15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, management
carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our
disclosure controls and procedures that were in effect as of the end of the period covered by this
report. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer each concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures are effective at a reasonable assurance level as of August 31, 2006, the
end of the period covered by this report.

36 

Table of Contents   

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

There have been no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting during our most recent
fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal controls over financial reporting.

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over
financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). The Company s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the Company conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of
its internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2006. The assessment was based on
criteria established in the framework  Internal Control   Integrated Framework , issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment,
management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of August
31, 2006. Management s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of August 31, 2006, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report included herein.

ITEM 9B.  
       
      OTHER INFORMATION  

None

37 

Table of Contents   

PART III 

ITEM 10.  
       
      DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

Information regarding directors of the Company will be set forth under the caption  Election of
Directors  in the Company s proxy statement for the Company s 2007 annual meeting of stockholders
(the  Proxy Statement ) and is incorporated herein by reference. Information regarding executive
officers of the Company is included in Item 4A of Part I of this Form 10-K. Information required
by Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be set forth under the caption  Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance  in the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

The information required by this item regarding our audit committee members and our audit committee
financial expert is incorporated herein by reference from the information provided under the
heading  Audit Committee and Independent Auditors  in our Proxy Statement.

The information required by this item with respect to our code of business ethics is incorporated
herein by reference from the information provided under the heading  Corporate Governance   Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics and Supplemental Code of Ethics  in our Proxy Statement.

The information required by this item regarding material changes to the procedures by which our
stockholders may recommend nominees to our Board of Directors is incorporated herein by reference
from the information provided under the heading  Committees of the Board of Directors   Nominating
and Corporate Governance Committee  in our Proxy Statement.

ITEM 11.  
       
      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  

Information required by this item will be set forth under the caption  Executive Compensation  in
the Proxy Statement and, except for the information under the captions  Report of the Human
Resources and Compensation Committee  and  Comparative Stock Performance Graph,  is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  
       
      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT  

Information required by this item will be set forth under the caption  Security Ownership  in the
Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  
       
      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS  

Information regarding any disclosable relationships and related transactions of directors and
officers will be set forth under the caption  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  in
the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 

Information required by this item will be set forth under the captions  Audit Committee and
Independent Auditors   Audit Fees,    Audit-Related Fees,    Tax Fees  and   All Other Fees  in the
Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by this item
with respect to our audit committee s pre-approval policies and procedures is incorporated by
reference herein by reference from the information provided under the heading  Audit Committee and
Independent Auditors   Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures  of our Proxy Statement.

38 

Table of Contents   

PART IV 

ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a) 
       
     See Index to Financial Statements on page F-1 and (c) below. 

(b) 
       
     Exhibits 

2.1

Third Amended Joint Plan of
Reorganization of Laidlaw USA, Inc.
and its Debtor Affiliates dated
January 23, 2003 (filed as Exhibit
2.1 to the Form 8-K filed on July 7,
2003 and incorporated herein by
reference). 

2.2

Modifications to the Third Amended
Joint Plan of Reorganization (filed
as Exhibit 2.2 to the Form 8-K filed
on July 7, 2003 and incorporated
herein by reference). 

2.3

Second modifications to the Third
Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization
(filed as Exhibit 2.3 to the Form
8-K filed on July 7, 2003 and
incorporated herein by reference). 

3.1

Certificate of Incorporation of
Laidlaw International, Inc. (filed
as Exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K filed
on July 9, 2003 and incorporated
herein by reference). 

3.2

By-laws of Laidlaw International,
Inc. (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the
Form 8-K filed on July 9, 2003 and
incorporated herein by reference). 

4.1

Rights agreement, dated as of June
23, 2003, by and between Laidlaw
International, Inc. and Wells Fargo
Bank Minnesota, National
Association, as rights agent (filed
as Exhibit 4.3 to the Form 8-K filed
on July 9, 2003 and incorporated
herein by reference). 

10.1

Laidlaw International, Inc. Amended
and Restated 2003 Equity and
Performance Incentive Plan (filed as
Exhibit A to the Laidlaw
International, Inc. Proxy Statement
filed on Form DEF 14A on December
28, 2004 and incorporated herein by
reference).* 

10.2

First amendment to the Laidlaw
International, Inc. Amended and
Restated 2003 Equity and Performance
Incentive Plan.* 

10.3

Laidlaw International, Inc. Short
Term Incentive Plan.* (filed as
Exhibit B to the Laidlaw
International, Inc. Proxy Statement
filed on Form DEF 14A on December
28, 2004 and incorporated herein by
reference).* 

10.4

Laidlaw International, Inc.
Supplemental Executive Retirement
Plans (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the
Form 10-K for the year ended August
31, 2003 and incorporated herein by
reference).* 

10.5

Credit Agreement dated July 31, 2006
by and among Laidlaw International,
Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc.,
UBS Securities LLC and Morgan
Stanley Senior Funding, Inc.
(Incorporated by reference to
Amendment No. 4 to Schedule TO filed
on July 31, 2006). 

39 

Table of Contents   

10.6

Agreement made as of June 18, 2003
between Laidlaw Inc. and others and
the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation (filed as Exhibit 10.5
to the Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended May 31, 2003 and incorporated
herein by reference). 

10.7

Tax sharing agreement between
Laidlaw International, Inc. and its
U.S. subsidiaries entered into as of
June 23, 2003 (filed as Exhibit 10.6
to the Form 10-K for the year ended
August 31, 2003 and incorporated
herein by reference). 

10.8

Indemnification agreement between
Laidlaw International, Inc. and its
Directors and Officers (filed as
Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended May 31, 2004 and
incorporated herein by reference). 

10.9

Stock Purchase Agreement, dated
December 6, 2004, by and among
Laidlaw International, Inc., Laidlaw
Medical Holdings, Inc. and EMSC,
Inc. (filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the
Form 8-K filed on December 13, 2004
and incorporated herein by
reference). 

10.10

Stock Purchase Agreement, dated
December 6, 2004, by and among
Laidlaw International, Inc., Laidlaw
Medical Holdings, Inc. and EMSC,
Inc. (filed as Exhibit 99.2 to the
Form 8-K filed on December 13, 2004
and incorporated herein by
reference). 

10.11

Amended and Restated Employment
Agreement between Laidlaw
International, Inc. and Kevin E.
Benson (filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the
Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2006 and
incorporated herein by reference).* 

10.12

Amended and Restated Employment
Agreement between Laidlaw
International, Inc. and Beth Byster
Corvino (filed as Exhibit 99.2 to
the Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2006
and incorporated herein by
reference).* 

10.13

Amended and Restated Employment
Agreement between Laidlaw
International, Inc. and Jeffrey W.
Sanders (filed as Exhibit 99.3 to
the Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2006
and incorporated herein by
reference).* 

10.14

Amended and Restated Employment
Agreement between Laidlaw
International, Inc. and Jeffery A.
McDougle (filed as Exhibit 99.4 to
the Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2006
and incorporated herein by
reference).* 

10.15

Employment Agreement between Laidlaw
International, Inc. and Mary B.
Jordan.* 

10.16

Amended and Restated Employment
Agreement between Laidlaw
International, Inc. and Douglas A.
Carty (filed as Exhibit 99.5 to the
Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2006 and
incorporated herein by reference).* 

10.17

Laidlaw International, Inc.
Non-Employee Director Compensation
Policy. 

40 

Table of Contents   

* 
       
     Management contract or compensatory plan. 

41 

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized on November 9, 2006.

LAIDLAW INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

By:   
     /s/ Kevin E. Benson

Kevin E. Benson  

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act, this report has been signed below on
November 9, 2006 by the following persons on behalf of the registrant in the capacities below.

Signature 
       
     Title 

/s/ Kevin E. Benson
  
Kevin E. Benson

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
(Principal Executive Officer) 

/s/ Jeffrey W. Sanders  

Jeffrey W. Sanders

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 

John F. Chlebowski*

Director 

James H. Dickerson, Jr. *

Director 

Lawrence M. Nagin*

Director 

Richard P. Randazzo*

Director 

Maria A. Sastre*

Director 

Peter E. Stangl*

Director 

Carroll R. Wetzel, Jr.*

Director 

*By

/s/ Jeffrey W. Sanders

Jeffrey W. Sanders 

As Attorney-in-Fact 

42 

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
LAIDLAW INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

F-1 

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders 
of Laidlaw International, Inc.:

We have completed integrated audits of Laidlaw International, Inc. s 2006 and 2005 consolidated
financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2006 and
an audit of its 2004 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits are
presented below.

Consolidated financial statements 

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Laidlaw International, Inc. at August
31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of three years in
the period ended August 31, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

Internal control over financial reporting 

Also, in our opinion, management s assessment, included in Management s Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, that the
Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2006 based
on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material
respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2006 based
on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the COSO. The
Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on management s assessment and on the effectiveness of
the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit
of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial
reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial
reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness
of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

F-2 

Table of Contents   

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chicago, Illinois 
November 6, 2006 

F-3 

Table of Contents   

LAIDLAW INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
($ in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

F-4 

Table of Contents   

LAIDLAW INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
($ in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

F-5 

Table of Contents   

LAIDLAW INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
($ in millions except per share amounts) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

F-6 

Table of Contents   

LAIDLAW INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 
(in millions) 

*  
       
      Net of 3.8 million common shares held in trust. The common shares held in trust were cancelled in fiscal 2005.  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

F-7 

Table of Contents   

LAIDLAW INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
($ in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

F-8 

Table of Contents   

LAIDLAW INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Note 1   Corporate overview and basis of presentation 

Corporate overview 

Laidlaw International, Inc. (the  Company ) operates in three reportable business segments:
education services, Greyhound and public transit. The education services segment provides school
bus transportation, including scheduled home-to-school, extra-curricular and charter and transit
school bus services, throughout the United States and Canada. Greyhound, a national provider of
inter-city bus transportation in the United States and Canada, provides scheduled passenger
service, package delivery service, charter bus service and, in certain terminals, food service.
The public transit segment provides fixed-route municipal bus service and paratransit bus
transportation for riders with disabilities.

Basis of presentation 

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States and include the accounts of the Company and all of its
respective subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year
presentation. Upon emergence from bankruptcy in June 2003, the Company adopted Fresh Start
accounting and adjusted all assets and liabilities to fair value at that time.

Note 2   Summary of significant accounting policies 

A summary of the significant accounting policies followed in the preparation of these consolidated
financial statements is presented below:

Cash and cash equivalents 

Cash and cash equivalents include short-term investments that are part of the Company s cash
management portfolio. These investments are highly liquid and have original maturities of three
months or less.

Accounts receivable 

Accounts receivable are net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $6.0 million on August 31,
2006 and $6.2 million on August 31, 2005. The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on the
credit risk applicable to particular customers, historical trends and other relevant information.

Parts and supplies 

Parts and supplies are valued at the lower of cost, determined on a first-in first-out basis and
replacement cost. This approximates fair value.

Property and equipment 

Additions to property and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation of property and equipment
is recorded on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which range from twenty to
forty years for buildings, five to fifteen years for vehicles, and three to ten years for all other
items. Depreciation of education services vehicles during the year is allocated based on usage.

F-9 

Table of Contents   

Maintenance costs are expensed as incurred while improvements and expenditures that extend the
useful life of the assets are capitalized.

Insurance collateral 

Insurance collateral is comprised principally of cash, deposits and debt and equity securities and
supports the Company s insurance program and reserves. If these investments were sold or otherwise
liquidated they would have to be replaced by other suitable financial assurances and are,
therefore, considered restricted. Income earned on these investments are an element of
the costs related to the Company s self-insurance program and are included as part of  Insurance
and accident claim costs  in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

The Company determines the classification of debt and equity securities as held-to-maturity or
available-for-sale at the time of purchase and reevaluates such designation as of each balance
sheet date. Securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the Company has the positive intent
and ability to hold the securities to maturity. Held-to-maturity securities are stated at cost,
adjusted for amortization of premiums and discounts to maturity. Investments not classified as
held-to-maturity are classified as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale securities are carried
at fair value, with net unrealized gains and losses reported as a component of  Accumulated other
comprehensive income . The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
At August 31, 2006, all of the securities are designated as available-for-sale and are stated at
fair value.

Other long-term investments 

Investments in shares of companies over which the Company has significant influence are accounted
for by the equity method and equity earnings are recognized to the extent that an increase in the
carrying value is determined to be realizable. Marketable securities are carried at fair value and
other investments are carried at their original cost.

Contracts and customer relationships 

The Company s contracts and customer relationships represent the amortized fair value of such
assets held by the Company s education services segment. Substantially all of the revenue of the
education services segment is derived from contracts. The contracts generally have terms of three
to five years and historically most contracts have been renewed. Contract assets are initially
valued based on the remaining terms of the contract and the expected contract renewal period used
to determine the acquisition price or fair value. The contracts are amortized on a straight-line
basis over the length of the contract and expected renewal period, if any, which ranges from three
to fifteen years.

Income taxes 

Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred
income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to
temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and
liabilities and their respective tax basis. A valuation allowance is provided for those deferred
income tax assets for which it is more likely than not that the related benefits will not be
realized.

Impairment of long-lived assets 

Long-lived assets are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Important factors, which could trigger impairment
review, include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future

F-10 

Table of Contents   

operating results, significant changes in the use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the
overall business, and significant negative industry or economic trends. If indicators of
impairment are present, management evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets in relation to
the projection of future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying assets. Projected cash flows
are based on historical results adjusted to reflect management s best estimate of future market and
operating conditions, which may differ from actual cash flows.

Insurance reserves 

The Company generally retains liability for auto, general and workers  compensation claims for the
first $5 million of any one occurrence and insures amounts above $5 million up to a maximum of $275
million per occurrence.

The Company establishes reserves for claims based upon an assessment of actual claims and claims
incurred but not reported. The reserves are developed using actuarial principles and assumptions
that consider a number of factors, including historical claim payment patterns (including legal
costs) and changes in case reserves and the assumed rate of inflation in health care costs and
property damage repairs. Workers  compensation claims are discounted at a rate commensurate with
the interest rate on monetary assets that are essentially risk free and have a maturity comparable
to the underlying liabilities. Auto and general liability claims are not discounted.

Investment income earned on the investments supporting these reserves has been offset against the
costs related to the Company s self-insurance program and is included as part of  Insurance and
accident claim costs  in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The accretion of imputed
interest from the discounting of the reserves is also included as part of these expenses.

Defined benefit pension plans 

The costs of pension benefits are actuarially determined using the projected benefit method
pro-rated for service and management s best estimate of expected plan investment performance,
discount rates, salary escalation, retirement ages of employees and mortality tables. Plan assets
are recorded at market value. Any net actuarial gain or loss in excess of 10 percent of the
greater of the benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets is amortized over the
average remaining service period of participating employees for active plans and average remaining
life expectancy of retired participants for frozen plans.

Financial instruments 

The Company s cash and cash equivalents, insurance collateral, other long-term investments,
accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, long-term debt and other long-term
liabilities constitute financial instruments. Concentration of credit risks in accounts receivable
is limited, due to the large number of customers comprising the Company s customer base throughout
North America.

The Company s derivative policy allows the use of derivative financial instruments for purposes
other than trading to minimize the risk and costs associated with financing and operating
activities. The Company periodically enters into forward purchase contracts for the purchase of
diesel fuel whereby the Company agrees to take delivery of a set amount of fuel at a fixed price at
a future specified date as an economic hedge against future price changes. Additionally, the
Company has entered into option contracts to hedge against fuel price fluctuations. Specifically,
the Company will purchase a call option for diesel fuel while simultaneously selling a put option
that covers the identical amount of fuel with the same underlying terms and conditions as the call

F-11 

Table of Contents   

option. The Company also periodically enters into interest rate swap agreements to convert a
portion of the interest rate exposure of our long-term debt from floating rates to fixed.

Fair value of the Company s financial instruments is determined using the methods and assumptions
required by SFAS 107  Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments . The carrying amounts
reported in the consolidated balance sheets for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable,
accounts payable, accrued liabilities, long-term debt and other long-term liabilities, approximate
fair value. The fair values of the debt and equity securities included in insurance collateral and
other long-term investments are based upon quoted market prices at August 31, 2006 and 2005.

Foreign currency 

The accounts of foreign-based subsidiaries are measured using the local currency as the functional
currency. All balance sheet amounts have been translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange
rates in effect at the applicable period end. Income statement amounts have been translated using
the average exchange rate for the applicable period. The gains and losses resulting from the
changes in exchange rates from the translation of subsidiary accounts in local currency to U.S.
dollars have been reported as a component of  Accumulated other comprehensive income  in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Foreign currency transaction gains and losses result from the effect of exchange rate changes on
transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. These gains and losses
are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and are immaterial for all years
presented.

Revenue recognition 

Revenue is recognized at the time services are provided. Revenue collected in advance on contracts
and tickets is deferred and taken into income as the services are provided.

Stock options 

The Company records the expense of stock option awards over the period in which the options vest.
The stock options are valued using the Black-Scholes valuation method on the date of grant.

Use of estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenue and expenses, and disclosure of contingencies. Future events could alter such
estimates.

The Company uses third-party actuaries and assumptions of future events in estimating the claims
liability reserves and future pension obligations. As a result of using assumptions, there is a
reasonable possibility that the amounts recorded for deferred income tax assets, insurance reserves
and pension liability could change materially.

Recent accounting pronouncements 

FASB Interpretation No 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  ( FIN 47 ) was
issued in March 2005 and clarifies the accounting prescribed in SFAS No. 143,  Accounting for Asset
Retirement Obligations . FIN 47 requires the recognition of a liability for the fair value of a
conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value can be reasonably estimated, even though

F-12 

Table of Contents   

uncertainty exists as to the timing and method of settlement. The Company adopted FIN 47 August
31, 2006 and the Company recorded a liability of $8.8 million and recognized a non-cash cumulative
effect charge of $3.7 million, net of taxes. See Note -12  Change in accounting principle  for
further discussion.

FASB Interpretation No 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an interpretation of FASB
Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48 ), was issued In July 2006. This interpretation clarifies the
accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an entity s financial statements in
accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  It prescribes a recognition threshold
and measurement attribute for financial statement disclosure of tax positions taken, or expected to
be taken, on a tax return. The Company will be required to adopt FIN 48 in the first quarter of
fiscal 2008. Management is currently evaluating the requirements of FIN 48 and has not yet
determined the impact on the consolidated financial statements.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurement  ( SFAS 157 ), which
defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about
assets and liabilities measured at fair value. The Company will be required to adopt SFAS 157 in
the first quarter of fiscal 2009. Management is currently evaluating the requirements of SFAS 157
and has not yet determined the impact on the consolidated financial statements.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 ( SFAS 158 ),  Employers  Accounting for Defined
Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106,
and 132(R).  SFAS 158 requires an employer to recognize a plan s funded status in its statement of
financial position, measure a plan s assets and obligations as of the end of the employer s fiscal
year and recognize the changes in a defined benefit postretirement plan s funded status in
comprehensive income in the year in which the changes occur. The Company will be required to
recognize the funded status of benefit plans and adopt the new disclosure requirements effective
August 31, 2007. The Company will be required to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of
the date of the fiscal year-end statement of financial position effective August 31, 2009. The
Company is currently evaluating the requirements of SFAS 158, but based on the current funded
status of the plans, management does not anticipate SFAS 158 will have a material impact on the
Company s consolidated financial statements.

Note 3   Insurance collateral 

As discussed in Note 2    Summary of significant accounting policies , the Company maintains
insurance collateral to support the Company s insurance program and insurance reserves. Components
of the Company s insurance collateral program are as follows ($ in millions):

All of the debt and equity securities have been classified as available-for-sale securities in
accordance with SFAS 115  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities . Gains
and losses realized on sale of debt and equity securities have been offset against the costs

F-13 

Table of Contents   

related to the Company s self-insurance program and are included as part of  Insurance and accident
claim costs  in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Proceeds from sale of available for
sale securities for the year ended August 31, 2006 were $82.9 million resulting in gross realized
gains of $6.2 million and gross realized losses of $2.0 million. The net realized gains for the
year ended August 31, 2006 include $1.3 million which had been classified at August 31, 2005 as
part of net unrealized gains and losses.

The amortized cost and estimated fair market value of investments in debt and equity securities for
the years ended August 31, 2006 and 2005 are as follows ($ in millions):

The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value of the Company s unrealized
losses aggregated by length of time the individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized
loss position ($ in millions):

The contractual maturities of the debt securities at August 31, 2006 are as follows ($ in
millions):

On an ongoing basis the Company evaluates its investments in debt and equity securities to
determine if a decline in fair market value is other-than temporary. If a decline in fair market
value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost
basis in the investment is established.

F-14 

Table of Contents   

Note 4   Contracts and customer relationships 

Contracts and customer relationships are net of accumulated amortization of $24.9 million and $18.4
million at August 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Amortization expense was $6.5 million and $7.5
million for the years ending August 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Estimated amortization
expense on existing contracts for the year ending August 31, 2007 and the next four years
thereafter is $6.6 million, $6.6 million, $6.6 million, $5.8 million and $5.6 million,
respectively.

Note 5   Income taxes 

Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle by geographic area is as follows ($ in millions):

Income tax expense (benefit) by geographic area is as follows ($ in millions):

F-15 

Table of Contents   

The effective income tax rates on income from continuing operations before income taxes and
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle differs from the statutory rates as follows
($ in millions):

The deferred income tax assets and liabilities contain the following temporary differences ($ in millions):

Valuation allowance 

The Company has significant net deferred tax assets resulting from net operating loss ( NOL ),
interest deduction and capital loss carryforwards, and other deductible temporary differences that
will reduce taxable income in future periods. SFAS 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes  requires
that a valuation allowance be established when it is  more likely than not  that all, or a portion,
of net deferred tax assets will not be realized. A review of all available positive and negative
evidence needs to be considered, including expected reversals of significant deductible temporary
differences, a company s recent financial performance, the market environment in which a company
operates, tax planning strategies and the length of NOL and interest deduction

F-16 

Table of Contents   

carryforward periods. Furthermore, the weight given to the potential effect of negative and
positive evidence should be commensurate with the extent to which it can be objectively verified.

At August 31, 2006, the Company maintained a valuation allowance of $464.0 million for capital loss
carryforwards. As capital losses may only be applied against capital gains, and the Company does
not generate capital gains in the ordinary course, the Company believes it is more likely than not
that the capital loss carryforwards will not be realized. Additionally, a $0.3 million valuation
allowance is maintained against an NOL in Canada as it is more likely than not that it will not be
realized. During 2006, $0.7 million of the valuation allowance for capital loss carryforwards was
released to offset capital gains realized in fiscal 2006. The valuation allowance was reduced by
another $22.4 million during 2006 principally due to adjustments for annual limitation expirations
and basis changes.

Availability and Amount of NOLs and Capital Losses 

Upon emergence from bankruptcy in 2003, the Company underwent an ownership change within the
meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code ( IRC ). As a result, the Company is subject
to an annual limitation of approximately $53 million on $168.5 million of NOL and $213.1 million of
capital losses.

The Company has NOL carryforwards of $362.8 million in the U.S. that expire in varying amounts
in the years 2011 to 2026. In Canada, NOL carryforwards of $13.4 million expire in varying amounts
in the years 2007 to 2026. A capital loss of $1,301.6 million in the U.S. expires in 2010. In
Canada, the Company has capital losses of $23.6 million with no expiry.

The Company has credited $0.8 million to paid in capital for $2.2 million of windfall deductions
resulting from the application of SFAS 123(R).

In the U.S., the Company has approximately $371.0 million of interest deduction carryforwards,
under IRC Section 163(j), with no expiry. In addition, the Company has tax credits of $5.3
million, of which $4 million expire between 2023 and 2026 and $1.3 million have no expiry.

Investment in Foreign Subsidiaries 

During 2006, the Company elected to repatriate $112.4 million from its Canadian subsidiaries which
qualified for the temporary dividends-received-deduction available under the American Jobs Creation
Act. The associated federal and state tax is approximately $6.5 million. During 2006 and 2005, the
Company received non-taxable cash distributions of $83.8 and $58.5 million respectively from its
Canadian subsidiaries. At August 31, 2006, there were no remaining unremitted earning from foreign
subsidiaries. Future earnings of the foreign subsidiaries will be permanently invested in those
businesses.

F-17 

Table of Contents   

Note 6   Long-term debt 

Components of long-term debt are as follows ($ in millions):

At August 31, 2006, maturities of long-term debt for the next five years ending August 31 and all
years thereafter are as follows ($ in millions):

Credit Facilities 

In July 2006, the Company amended its existing senior secured credit facilities ( Credit
Facilities ) to consist of a $277.5 million term loan due June 2010 ( Term A Facility ) a $300
million revolving credit facility ( Revolver ) and added a $500 million term loan due July 2013
( Term B Facility ).

Principal on the Term A Facility is payable in quarterly installments of $7.5 million from
September 30, 2006 through June 30, 2007, $11.25 million from September 30, 2007 through June 30,
2009, $37.5 million from September 30, 2009 through March 31, 2010 with a final payment of $45.0
million due on June 30, 2010.

The Term B Facility consists of a $375 million loan to Laidlaw International, Inc. and a $125 loan
to its Canadian subsidiaries. Principal is payable in 26 quarterly installments of $1.25 million
from December 31, 2006 through March 31, 2013 and a final payment of $467.5 million is due on July
31, 2013.

The $300 million Revolver was established to fund the Company s working capital and letter of
credit needs. It has a $200 million sub-limit for letters of credit, a $15 million sub-limit for
swingline loans and a $50 million sub-limit for Canadian dollar borrowings and Canadian dollar
letters of credit by Canadian borrowers. On August 31, 2006, there were $22.0 million of cash
borrowings and there were issued letters of credit of $118.6 million, leaving $159.4 million of
availability. The $22.0 million cash borrowings are classified as long term based on the Company s
intent and ability under the terms of the Revolver.

Interest on the Credit Facilities  U.S. borrowings is based on the applicable margin plus the LIBOR
rate. Alternatively, at the Company s option, interest can be calculated using the applicable
margin

F-18 

Table of Contents   

plus a base rate ( Base Rate ) which is the highest of:  (a)  the base rate of Citibank, N.A.,
 (b)  the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or  (c)  the latest three-month certificates of deposit, as
determined by Citibank, N.A. and adjusted for the cost of reserves and FDIC insurance assessments
plus 0.50%.

The applicable margin used for the Term A Facility and the Revolver is dependent on the Company s
debt rating and ranges from 0.60% to 2.00% for the LIBOR rate and ranges from 0.0% to 1.0% for the
Base Rate. The applicable margin used for the Term B Facility is 1.75% for the LIBOR rate and
0.75% for the Base Rate.

The Company established a cash flow hedge by entering into interest rate agreements ( SWAP s ) with
counterparties in order to convert one half of the outstanding Term A Facility principal balance
from floating rate debt to fixed rate debt with a weighted average interest rate of 5.5% based on
the margin in effect on August 31, 2006. The notional amount of the SWAP s are amortizing in
tandem with the scheduled principal payments on the Term A Facility and will expire in June 2010

Interest on Canadian dollar borrowings under the Revolver is based on the applicable margin plus
the Canadian prime rate. Alternatively, at the Company s option, interest can be calculated using
the applicable margin plus the Canadian dollar bankers  acceptances rate.

In addition to interest due on any amounts outstanding, the Company is also responsible for certain
commitment and letter of credit fees.

The Credit Facilities are guaranteed by the Company s wholly-owned U.S. and Canadian subsidiaries
excluding the Company s insurance subsidiaries. However, the Canadian subsidiaries  guarantees and
collateral only support the loans made to the Canadian borrowers. Terms included in the Credit
Facilities require that the Company meet certain financial covenants including a leverage ratio and
interest coverage ratio, as well as certain non-financial covenants. As of August 31, 2006, the
Company was in compliance with all such covenants.

Notes and other debt 

Notes and other debt consists of a $4.0 million 10  3  / 4 % senior note, $0.8 million of capitalized
equipment leases and $3.0 million of other debt.

Note 7   Benefit plans 

The Company s subsidiaries sponsor fifteen defined benefit pension plans. Four plans relate to
Greyhound Canada Transportation Corp. and cover employees represented by the Canadian Auto Workers
Union and the Amalgamated Transit Union ( ATU ) and all non-unionized employees meeting certain
eligibility requirements. A fifth plan is a multi-employer pension plan, instituted in 1992, to
cover certain union mechanics of Greyhound Lines, Inc. represented by the International Association
of Machinists and Aerospace Workers. A further eight plans are single employer pension plans
maintained in the United States by Greyhound Lines, Inc. (the  Greyhound U.S. Plans ). The largest
of the Greyhound U.S. Plans (the  ATU Plan ) covers approximately 12,000 current and former
Greyhound Lines, Inc. employees, fewer than 600 of whom are active employees. The ATU Plan was
closed to new participants on October 31, 1983, and service and wage accruals were frozen for
active employees effective March 15, 2002. Other Greyhound U.S. Plans include two plans that cover
salaried employees of Greyhound Lines, Inc. through May 7, 1990, and substantially all employees at
Vermont Transit Company through June 30, 2000, when the plans were curtailed. The remaining five
Greyhound U.S. Plans are active plans that cover salaried and hourly personnel of other Greyhound
Lines, Inc. subsidiaries. Additionally, Laidlaw International Inc. has Supplemental

F-19 

Table of Contents   

Employee Retirement Plans ( SERPs ) that cover certain executives of the parent and subsidiaries in both the
U.S. and Canada.

The Greyhound U.S. Plans have an annual measurement date of May 31, while the Greyhound Canada
Transportation Corp. plans and the SERPs have an annual measurement date of June 30.

Changes in the Company s benefit obligation and plan assets are as follows ($ in millions):

F-20 

Table of Contents   

The components of net pension benefit cost for the Company s pension plans are as follows
($ in millions):

The weighted-average assumptions used to determine the pension plans benefit obligations and
net periodic costs are as follows ($ in millions):

As of August 31, 2006 and 2005, nine and ten of the Company s pension plans, respectively had
accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets. As of August 31, 2006 and 2005, eleven
and thirteen of the Company s pension plans, respectively had projected benefit obligations in
excess of plan assets.

The accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, projected benefit obligations in
excess of plan assets and total accumulated benefit obligation are as follows ($ in millions):

Plan Assets 

Assets of the various plans consist primarily of government-backed securities, corporate equity
securities, guaranteed insurance contracts, annuities and corporate debt obligations. Furthermore,
equity investments are diversified across large and small capitalizations. The plan

F-21 

Table of Contents   

assets at
August 31, 2006 and 2005 contain no investments in equity or debt securities of the Company or its
subsidiaries.

Asset management objectives are to maximize plan returns at an acceptable level of risk such that
the plan will be able to pay retirement benefits to plan participants while minimizing cash
contributions from the Company over the life of the plan. Investment risk is measured and monitored
on an ongoing basis through quarterly investment reviews. Additionally, the asset allocations are
reviewed annually using projected benefit payments and long-term historical returns by asset class
to determine the optimal allocation for meeting the long-term strategy. The reviews are generally
conducted by the plans  investment advisors and are reviewed by the plans  actuaries and other
experts. The investment and asset allocation policies of the plans prohibit concentrations greater
than 10% in any single equity security, prohibit the use of derivative instruments and do not allow
investments in hedge funds.

Target investment allocations, along with the actual weighted-average asset allocations of the
collective pension plan assets, are as follows:

Plan Contributions and Potential Funding Requirements 

The Company expects to make pension contributions of $15.8 million during the year ending August
31, 2007. It is the Company s policy to fund the minimum required contribution under existing
laws.

Based upon current pension legislation and plan asset values at August 31, 2006 and assuming annual
investment returns of 6%, the Company does not anticipate any significant increase in the minimum
funding requirements in the near future. However, there is no assurance that the pension plans
will be able to earn the assumed rate of return, or that there will be market driven changes in the
discount rates, which would result in the Company being required to make significantly higher plan
contributions in the future.

Expected future Payments 

Based on current estimates, the future benefit payments under the Company s defined benefit pension
plans over the next ten years are expected to be as follows ($ in millions):

Defined Contribution Retirement plans 

The Company sponsors defined contribution retirement plans that are generally available to all
employees unless not required by union agreements. Company contributions to these plans were

F-22 

Table of Contents   

$7.1 million, $6.9 million and $7.9 million for the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively.

Note 8   Commitments and contingencies 

Lease commitments 

The Company leases certain vehicles and facilities pursuant to operating leases. The leases
generally provide for the lessee to pay taxes, maintenance, insurance and certain other operating
costs of the leased property. Rental expense incurred under operating leases was $99.9 million,
$111.3 million and $114.7 million for the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

The leases on most of the vehicles contain purchase provisions or residual value guarantees. Of
those leases that contain residual value guarantees, the aggregate residual value at lease
expiration is $88.3 million of which the Company has guaranteed $55.4 million. The Company has the
right to exercise a purchase option with respect to the leased equipment or the equipment can be
sold to a third party. At August 31, 2006, management estimates that the residual value on certain
leases will exceed the projected fair market value of the underlying buses by $1.8 million and has
established appropriate reserves for this estimated liability.

At August 31, 2006, future minimum operating lease payments for premises and equipment, excluding
the effect of any residual value guarantees, are as follows ($ in millions):

Environmental matters 

The Company s operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and
regulations relating to environmental matters, including those concerning emissions to the air;
waste water discharges; storage, treatment and disposal of waste and remediation of soil and ground
water contamination. The Company has incurred, and expects to incur, costs for our operations to
comply with these legal requirements, and these costs could increase in the future. In particular,
the Company has been named as a  potentially responsible party  under the United States
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, at
various third-party sites at which our waste was allegedly disposed. In addition, management is
investigating or engaged in remediation of past contamination at other sites used in the
businesses. The Company records liabilities when environmental liabilities are either known or
considered probable and can be reasonably estimated. On an ongoing basis, management assesses and
evaluates environmental risk and, when necessary, conducts appropriate corrective measures.

At August 31, 2006, the Company had reserved $9.1 million for general environmental liabilities.
Of this amount, $0.4 million was reserved for fourteen superfund sites, where we are a de minimis
contributor in virtually all cases, and $8.7 million is reserved for ongoing remediation at

F-23 

Table of Contents   

approximately 60 owned or leased facilities. The largest liability established for remediation at
a specific site is approximately $1.2 million.

The adoption of FIN 47, issued in March 2005 required the Company to recognize additional
liabilities. Therefore, the Company has also recorded $8.8 million of liability for asset
retirement obligations triggered by environmental laws and regulations related to the remediation
and abatement of asbestos containing materials and disposal of fuel storage tanks. The Company has
approximately 250 facilities with asbestos containing materials with the largest exposure at any
individual location amounting to $0.4 million. Additionally, this liability covers disposal costs
for approximately 360 fuel storage tanks. See Note 12    Change in accounting principle  for
additional disclosures related to these obligations.

Management believes that adequate accruals have been made related to all known environmental
matters, however actual environmental liabilities could differ significantly from these estimates.

Income tax matters 

The respective tax authorities, in the normal course, audit tax filings. It is not possible at
this time to predict the final outcome of these audits or to establish a reasonable estimate of
possible additional taxes owing, if any.

Contractual fuel obligations 

During the year ended August 31, 2006, fuel costs, which are subject to market risk from
fluctuating fuel prices, represented 8% of the Company s revenue. To mitigate some of this risk,
the Company has established a program to enter into option contracts ( Fuel Collars ) and forward
purchase contracts ( FPCs ). The FPCs generally stipulate that the Company take delivery of set
bulk volumes of fuel at prearranged prices for a set period. At August 31, 2006, the Company had
outstanding FPCs to purchase 1.4 million gallons of fuel at an average price of $1.89 per gallon.

During 2006 the Company began to hedge a portion of its diesel fuel purchases by entering into Fuel
Collars, which effectively create a cap on the future purchase price of a certain amount of fuel
and at the same time, limit the amount of benefit to the Company in a falling future price market.
The Company creates a Fuel Collar by purchasing a call option for diesel fuel while simultaneously
selling a put option that covers the identical amount of fuel with the same underlying terms and
conditions as the call option. During fiscal 2006, the Company entered into Fuel Collars for 21.5
million gallons of diesel fuel of which contracts for 15.0 million gallons remain outstanding at
August 31, 2006. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Number 133
 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , the Company is accounting for these
contracts as cash flow hedges, and has recorded a liability of $1.6 million for the fair value of
the contracts at August 31, 2006.

The volume of fuel covered under the Fuel Collars and FPCs is below the forecasted total bulk fuel
needs for any given location. Therefore, the risk of being forced to purchase fuel through the
FPCs or settle put options not required by the Company, is minimal. All Fuel Collars and FPCs that
were outstanding on August 31, 2006 will expire in fiscal 2007.

Director and Officer Claim Treatment Letter 

Pursuant to the terms of the Directors and Officer Treatment letter dated June 27, 2001, the
Company established a defense trust to cover claims against former Directors and Officers that
arose prior to the Company s emergence from bankruptcy. Under the agreement, the Company may be
obligated to make additional contributions. As of August 31, 2006, the trust balance

F-24 

Table of Contents   

was $9.2 million and the Company s maximum exposure to funding the trust in the future is $6.0
million. Amounts paid from the trust are recognized as an expense when the costs are incurred.
The unexpended balance in the trust, if any, will revert to the Company in June 2013.

Note 9   Shareholders  equity 

(1)  
       
      Capital stock  

(a)  
       
      Authorized  

500 million Common Shares, par value $0.01 per share, and 50 million Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Shares, par value $0.01 per share. 

(b)  
       
      Shareholder Rights Plan  

The Company has a shareholder rights plan pursuant to which each outstanding share of the
Company s common shares is accompanied by one preferred share purchase right. The rights
expire on July 3, 2013 unless they are earlier redeemed, exchanged, extended or amended by
the Company s board of directors. 

The rights are not exercisable or transferable apart from the common shares until ten days
after a public announcement by the Company that a person or group has acquired beneficial
ownership of 15% or more of the Company s common shares or ten business days (or a later
date as determined by the Company s board of directors) after a person or group begins a
tender or exchange offer that, if completed, would result in that person or group acquiring
beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the Company s common shares. Once exercisable, each
right would separate from the common shares and be separately tradeable, and, subject to
adjustment would entitle its holder to purchase, at the exercise price of $75.00 per right,
a number of common shares, or a number of the surviving company s shares if the Company is
not the surviving company, having a market value equal to $150.00. 

The Company may redeem all (but not less than all) of the rights for a redemption price of
$0.01 per right until the rights become exercisable. The Company may also exchange each
right for one common share or an equivalent security until an acquiring person or group owns
50% or more of the outstanding common shares. 

(c)  
       
      Dividends  

During fiscal 2006 and 2005, the Company paid dividends of $0.60 and $0.15 per share to
shareholders, respectively. While, the Company intends to pay dividends for the foreseeable
future, all subsequent dividends will be reviewed quarterly and declared by the Board of
Directors, or a committee to which it delegates such authority, at its discretion. 

(d)  
       
      Stock repurchase program  

Effective January 5, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program to
acquire up to $200 million of the Company s outstanding stock. Through July 5, 2006,
approximately 2.8 million shares had been repurchased at an average cost of $27.18 per share
through open market purchases, leaving $123.2 million authorized for future repurchases
under the program. On July 6, 2006 the Company announced that the Board of Directors had
authorized the repurchase of an additional $376.8 million of outstanding common stock. This
authorization, in combination with the remaining amount authorized under the previously
announced buyback program, allowed the 

F-25 

Table of Contents   

Company to repurchase an additional $500 million. In August 2006 we repurchased
approximately 15.5 million shares for $26.90 per share through a modified  Dutch  auction
tender offer. Additionally, we repurchased approximately 0.5 million shares on the open
market at an average price of $26.29 per share leaving $68.9 million available for future
repurchases. As of October 31, 2006, we had completed the repurchase of all authorized
amounts. 

Future stock repurchases may be made through open market and privately negotiated
transactions at times, and in such amounts, as management deems appropriate. The timing and
amount of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including price, corporate
and regulatory requirements and other market conditions. The stock repurchase program does
not have an expiration date and may be limited or terminated at any time without prior
notice. 

(2)  
       
      Accumulated other comprehensive income  

Accumulated other comprehensive income is comprised of the following ($ in millions):

Note 10   Stock based compensation 

The Company s 2003 Amended and Restated Equity and Performance Incentive Plan ( 2003 Incentive
Plan ) provides for the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted shares,
deferred shares, performance shares, and performance units to officers and employees of the
Company. The 2003 Incentive Plan also provides for the grant of option rights and restricted stock
to non-employee directors. There were 5,000,000 Common Shares initially available under the 2003
Incentive Plan. In any calendar year, no participant may be granted more than 500,000 option
rights, appreciation rights, deferred shares or restricted shares, or more than $1.0 million worth
of performance shares or performance units. The 2003 Incentive Plan is administered by the
Company s Human Resources and Compensation Committee ( Compensation Committee ). The Compensation
Committee, as administrator of the plan, has the authority to select plan participants, grant
awards, and determine the terms and conditions of such awards.

The Company recorded expenses for stock based compensation of $7.6 million, $5.2 million and $2.6
million for the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company also
recognized income tax benefits related to the stock based compensation of $2.7 million, $1.8
million and $0.9 million for the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Stock options 

Stock options have a ten-year life and vest ratably over three years beginning on the first
anniversary of the date of the grant. The option holder has no voting or dividend rights. The
grant prices are equal to the market prices at date of grant. The Company records the expense of
the stock options over the related vesting period.

F-26 

Table of Contents   

The options were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model at the date of grant using the
following assumptions:

Expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of the Company s stock price. The
expected term represents the estimated average period of time that the options remain outstanding.
Since the Company does not have a sufficient history of issuing stock options, the expected term
was estimated based on a review of the average terms experienced by other publicly traded
companies. Estimated dividends in 2006 were based on the recent dividend payout trend, while in
2005 no dividend payouts were assumed due to credit facility restrictions in place at that time.
The risk-free rate of return reflects the weighted average interest rate offered for zero coupon
treasury bonds over the expected term of the options.

A summary of the stock option activity for the year ended August 31, 2006 is presented below:

As of August 31, 2006, there was $3.5 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related
to the outstanding stock options that will be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.2
years. The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the years ended August 31, 2006
and 2005 was $0.5 million and $0.1 million, respectively. The total fair value of the options
vested during the years ended August 31, 2006 and 2005 was $1.8 million and $0.8 million,
respectively. During the year ended August 31, 2006, the Company received $0.7 million of cash
from the exercise of stock options.

Restricted shares 

Restricted shares vest at the end of a three year period. During the vesting period the
participant has the rights of a shareholder in terms of voting and dividend rights but is
restricted from transferring the shares. Restricted shares are valued at the price of the common
stock on the date of grant and the expense is recorded ratably over the vesting period.

F-27 

Table of Contents   

A summary of the restricted share activity for the year ended August 31, 2006 is presented
below:

As of August 31, 2006, there was $0.6 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related
to the outstanding restricted shares that will be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.1
years.

Deferred shares 

Deferred shares vest ratably over a four year period beginning on the first anniversary of the
date of the grant. On each vesting date the employee receives common stock of the Company equal in
number to the deferred shares that have vested. Upon delivery of the Company common stock an equal
number of deferred shares are terminated. The participants have no voting or dividend rights with
the deferred shares. The deferred shares are valued at the price of the common stock on the date
of grant and the expense is recorded ratably over the vesting period.

A summary of the non-vested deferred share activity for the year ended August 31, 2006 is presented
below:

As of August 31, 2006, there was $11.0 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related
to the outstanding deferred shares that will be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.9
years.

F-28 

Table of Contents   

Note 11   Discontinued operations 

The following table details the components of income from discontinued operations ($ in millions):

In fiscal 2005 the Company completed the sale of its healthcare transportation services ( AMR ) and
emergency management services segments to an affiliate of Onex Corporation. Subsequent to the
sale, AMR management advised the Company that they had determined that, utilizing an alternative
method of valuing accounts receivable, AMR s accounts receivable reserves had been understated
between $39 million and $50 million during the last five years, including the date of sale. As a
result of this matter, Onex could have asserted a claim against the Company under the Stock
Purchase Agreement. In fiscal 2006 the Company agreed to pay Onex $10 million in satisfaction of
all potential claims Onex may have had against Laidlaw under the Stock Purchase Agreement in
regards to the accounts receivable valuation. This settlement resulted in the Company recording a
$10 million pre-tax loss from discontinued operations during fiscal 2006.

The additional loss from discontinued operations in 2006 primarily relates to changes in reserves
related to contingent obligations of AMR that are partially indemnified by the Company under the
Stock Purchase Agreement.

Note 12   Change in accounting principle 

FIN 47    Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  was issued in March 2005 and
clarifies the accounting prescribed in SFAS No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations .
FIN 47 requires the recognition of a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset
retirement obligation if the fair value can be reasonably estimated, even though uncertainty exists
as to the timing and method of settlement. An asset retirement obligation ( ARO ) is a legal
obligation to perform certain activities in connection with retirement, disposal or abandonment of
assets. FIN 47 clarifies that the uncertainty about the timing or method of settlement of a
conditional asset retirement should be factored into the measurement of the liability. The
Company s ARO s are recorded at fair value utilizing assumptions on inflation, discount rates, and
estimates on the timing and amount of remediation costs based on internal models and external
quotes. The ARO liability is offset with a corresponding increase to property and equipment, which
is then depreciated over the remaining useful life of the fixed asset. An ongoing operating
expense is then recognized for changes in the value of the liability as a result of the passage of
time. The Company s ARO s are related to the cost of removal and disposal of asbestos containing
materials in certain of our buildings and the costs of disposal of fuel storage tanks.

F-29 

Table of Contents   

Upon the adoption of FIN 47 at August 31, 2006, the Company recorded a liability of $8.8 million
and recognized a non-cash cumulative effect charge of $3.7 million, net of taxes. Had FIN 47 been
adopted as of the beginning of the earliest year presented in the consolidated financial
statements, the estimated ARO liability would have been approximately $8.1 million and $7.6 million
at the end of 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Note 13   Earnings (loss) per share 

The earnings (loss) per share figures are calculated using the weighted average number of shares
outstanding during the respective periods as presented below (in millions):

*  
       
      Potential common shares are considered non-dilutive for the year ending August 31, 2005 due
to the loss from continuing operations  

Note 14   Statement of cash flows 

Net cash payments for interest were $19.0 million, $76.5 million and $72.1 million, for the years
ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Net cash payments (refunds) for income taxes
were $(3.1) million, $1.5 million and $(9.7) million, for the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively.

During the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 the Company purchased $66.3 million, $13.4
million and $3.7 million, respectively, of vehicles that were financed through accounts payable at
year end. The cash outflow and capital expenditure reported for these amounts are reflected the
following year. Additionally, in fiscal 2006 the Company completed the sale of a public transit
facility for $15.8 million, receiving the proceeds subsequent to August 31, 2006.

The Company has separately disclosed the operating, investing and financing portions of the cash
flows attributable to discontinued operations for the years ended August 31, 2005 and 2004, which
were previously reported on a combined basis as a single amount. This revised presentation does
not change any of the account balances on the consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements
of operations, or the net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents included in our
consolidated statement of cash flows for any period presented.

Note 15   Legal proceedings 

Contingent Liabilities Relating to Sale of AMR 

The Company sold its healthcare transportation services company, American Medical Response ( AMR )
to an affiliate of Onex Corporation in accordance with a Stock Purchase Agreement dated December 6,
2004, as amended (the  Stock Purchase Agreement ). Pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase
Agreement, the Company is subject to indemnification obligations related to the matters set forth
below.

On May 9, 2002, AMR received a subpoena duces tecum from the Office of Inspector General for the
United States Department of Health and Human Services. The subpoena required AMR to

F-30 

Table of Contents   

produce a broad range of documents relating to contracts in Georgia and Colorado for the period
from January 1993 through May 2002. The Company is unaware of any active government investigation
arising out of AMR activities in Georgia or Colorado and, therefore, does not currently believe
there is a material financial exposure related to this matter.

During the first quarter of fiscal 2004, AMR was advised by the U.S. Department of Justice ( DOJ ),
that it was investigating certain business practices at AMR. The specific practices at issue were
(1) whether ambulance transports involving Medicare eligible patients complied with the  medically
necessary  requirement imposed by Medicare regulations, (2) whether patient signatures, when
required, were properly obtained from Medicare eligible patients; and (3) whether discounts in
violation of the Federal Anti-Kickback Act were provided by AMR in exchange for referrals involving
Medicare eligible patients. On September 14, 2006, AMR entered into a Settlement Agreement with
the DOJ related to the above matters. Shortly thereafter, the Company paid AMR an agreed upon
indemnification amount that was within the accrual the Company had previously established with
respect to this matter.

Other 

The Company is also a defendant in various lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business,
primarily cases involving personal injury, property damage, environmental or employment related
claims. Some of these actions are covered to varying degrees by insurance policies. Based on an
assessment of known claims and our historical claims payout pattern, management believes that there
is no proceeding either threatened or pending against us that would have a material adverse effect
on the Company.

F-31 

Table of Contents   

Note 16   Segment information 

The Company has three reportable segments: education services, Greyhound and public transit. The
education services segment provides school bus transportation throughout Canada and the United
States. The Greyhound segment provides intercity and tourism bus transportation throughout North
America. Public transit provides municipal and paratransit bus transportation within the United
States.

The Company evaluates performance and allocates resources based on operating income before
depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ). The Company s reportable segments are business units
that offer different services and are each managed separately.

Reportable Segments 

Geographic Information 

F-32 

Table of Contents   

Note 17   Valuation and qualifying accounts 

Allowance for doubtful accounts and deferred income tax valuation reserves were as follows
($ in millions):

F-33 

Table of Contents   

Note 18   Quarterly financial information  (unaudited)

Selected unaudited quarterly financial data for the years ended August 31, 2006 and 2005 are as
follows ($ in millions except per share amounts):

* 
       
     The sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts do not equal the total annual earnings
per share due to the uneven timing of earnings through out the year compared to the weighted
average shares outstanding. 

** 
       
     Income from continuing operations includes a $5.4 million ($0.05 per share) Insurance
recovery gain from hurricane Katrina and a $2.3 million ($0.02 per share) gain from the sale
of a public transit facility. 

*** 
       
     Loss from continuing operations includes a $72.2 million ($0.72 per share) charge for debt
restructuring costs and a $2.1 million ($0.02 per share) charge for a correction of the
accounting for post-retirement benefits. 

F-34 

<EX-10.2>
 2
 c09920exv10w2.txt
 AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED EQUITY AND PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN

Exhibit 10.2

                             FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE
                           LAIDLAW INTERNATIONAL, INC.
                              AMENDED AND RESTATED
                   2003 EQUITY AND PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN

               Laidlaw International, Inc., a corporation organized under the
laws of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), has previously adopted the
Laidlaw International, Inc. Amended and Restated 2003 Equity and Performance
Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Section 19(a) of the Plan allows the Human
Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation (the "Committee") to amend the Plan in certain respects at any time
or from time to time.

               In order to amend the Plan in certain respects, this Amendment to
the Plan has been adopted by a resolution of the Committee on October 3, 2006,
effective as set forth below. This Amendment to the Plan, together with the
Plan, constitutes the entire Plan as amended to date.

               1. Effective as of October 5, 2006, Section 2 of the Plan is
hereby amended to incorporate a new definition "Equity Restructuring"
alphabetically in such Section as follows:

          "Equity Restructuring" means a non-reciprocal transaction between the
     Corporation and its stockholders, such as a stock dividend, stock split,
     spin-off, rights offering or recapitalization, that affects the Common
     Shares (or other securities of the Corporation) or the share price and
     causes a change in the per share value of the Common Shares underlying
     outstanding Appreciation Rights, Option Rights, Deferred Shares,
     Performance Shares or Performance Units.

               2. Effective as of October 5, 2006, Section 11 of the Plan is
hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:

          "11. Adjustments.

               (a) In the event that any dividend or other distribution,
     reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination, repurchase, or exchange
     of Common Shares or other securities of the Company, or other change in the
     corporate structure of the Company affecting the Common Shares (other than
     an Equity Restructuring) occurs such that an adjustment is determined by
     the Administrator (in its sole discretion) to be appropriate in order to
     prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits
     intended to be made available under the Plan, then the Administrator shall,
     in such manner as it may deem equitable, adjust the number and class of
     Common Shares which may be delivered under the Plan, the purchase price per
     share and the number of Common Shares covered by each Appreciation Right
     and Option Right, which has not yet been exercised, and the number of
     Common Shares subject to each Deferred Share, Performance Share or
     Performance Unit outstanding and the numerical limits of Section 3(a), (b),
     (d), (e), and (f) and in the number of Option Rights to be granted
     automatically pursuant to Section 9.

               (b) In connection with the occurrence of any Equity
     Restructuring, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section
     11(a):

(i) The number and type of securities subject to each
               outstanding Appreciation Right, Option Right, Deferred Share,
               Performance Share and Performance Unit and the exercise price or
               grant price thereof, if applicable, will be proportionately
               adjusted so that the fair value of each such Appreciation Right,
               Option Right, Deferred Share, Performance Share or Performance
               Unit and the proportionate interest represented thereby
               immediately after the Equity Restructuring will equal the fair
               value of such Appreciation Right, Option Right Deferred Share,
               Performance Share or Performance Unit and the proportionate
               interest represented thereby immediately prior to such Equity
               Restructuring. The adjustments provided under this Section
               11(b)(i) shall be nondiscretionary and shall be final and binding
               on the affected Participant and the Company.

                    (ii) The Committee shall make such proportionate
               adjustments, if any, as it in its discretion may deem appropriate
               to reflect such Equity Restructuring with respect to the
               aggregate number and kind of shares that may be issued under the
               Plan (including, but not limited to, adjustments of the
               limitations in Section 3(a), (b), (d), (e) and (f) and in the
               number of Option Rights to be granted automatically pursuant to
               Section 9 of this Plan).

               (c) All adjustments under this Section 11 shall be made in a
     manner that does not cause a modification to any Appreciation Rights,
     Option Rights, Deferred Shares, Performance Shares or Performance Units
     outstanding on the date of such adjustment within the meaning of Section
     409A of the Code and the regulations of published guidance thereunder."

               3. Effective as of October 5, 2006, Section 12 of the Plan is
hereby amended by adding the following subsection (e) thereto:

               "(e) with respect to Participants who are employees of a
     Subsidiary, the consummation of a sale of substantially all of the assets
     or the majority of the voting stock of such employing Subsidiary to an
     unrelated third party; provided, that any such sale shall constitute a
     "Change in Control" only with respect to Participants who are employees of
     the Subsidiary involved in such sale and no other employees of the
     Corporation or of any other Subsidiary, unless such sale either alone or in
     connection with any other sale shall constitute a Business Combination
     under Section 12(c), in which case the provisions of Section 12(c) shall
     govern."

                                 * * * * * * * *

Executed on October 4, 2006

                                        LAIDLAW INTERNATIONAL, INC.

By:
                                             -----------------------------------
                                            Beth Byster Corvino
                                            Executive Vice President, General
                                            Counsel and Secretary

2

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.15>
 3
 c09920exv10w15.txt
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

Exhibit 10.15

THIS AGREEMENT MADE EFFECTIVE THE 1ST DAY OF AUGUST, 2006.

Between:

         Laidlaw International, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Laidlaw")

and

                        Mary B. Jordan (the "Executive")

WHEREAS, Laidlaw desires to employ the Executive and the Executive desires to be
employed by Laidlaw.

NOW THEREFORE, the parties have agreed that the terms and conditions of the
relationship shall be as follows:

ARTICLE 1 -- DEFINITIONS

Whenever used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is
capitalized:

(a)  "Accrued Obligations" means any unpaid amounts with respect to (i) the
     Executive's Base Salary through the Date of Termination, (ii) any
     then-unpaid Annual Bonus or other incentive compensation that the Executive
     may have earned pursuant to the terms of any applicable incentive
     compensation or bonus plan of Laidlaw with respect to any fiscal year or
     other performance period completed prior to the Date of Termination, (iii)
     reimbursement for any properly incurred, unreimbursed business expenses
     incurred prior to termination in accordance with Laidlaw's business
     reimbursement policy applicable to the Executive prior to the Date of
     Termination, and (iv) payments and benefits under the employee benefit and
     incentive plans and perquisite programs of Laidlaw, in accordance with the
     respective terms of those plans and perquisite programs.

(b)  "Agreement" means this employment agreement, as amended from time to time.

(c)  "Annual Bonus" means the annual bonus under Laidlaw's Short Term Incentive
     Plan or any successor annual incentive plan.

(d)  "Base Salary" means the salary of record paid to the Executive as annual
     salary, and as further indicated in Section (a) of Article 4.

(e)  "Board" means the Board of Directors of Laidlaw.

(f)  "Cause" means:

     (i)  the continuous and willful failure or refusal by the Executive to
          perform the Executive's material duties and responsibilities of her
          position with Laidlaw

1

(other than any such failure resulting from the Executive's incapacity
          due to physical or mental illness), which has not ceased within twenty
          (20) days after a written demand for substantial performance is
          delivered to the Executive by Laidlaw, which demand identifies with
          particularity the manner in which Laidlaw believes that the Executive
          has not performed such duties;

     (ii) Executive's willful malfeasance or willful misconduct in connection
          with Executive's duties hereunder or any willful act or willful
          omission, including a willful failure to abide by the Laidlaw
          International, Inc. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which is
          materially injurious to the financial condition or business reputation
          of Laidlaw or any significant Subsidiary;

     (iii) Executive's commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement or theft in
          connection with the Executive's duties or in the course of her
          employment with Laidlaw or any Subsidiary;

     (iv) the conviction of the Executive of, or the entering of a plea of nolo
          contendere by, the Executive with respect to a felony; or

     (v)  Executive's breach of the provisions of Article 7 of this Agreement.

     For purposes of this Section (f) and Article 17, no act or omission by the
     Executive shall be considered "willful" unless it is done or omitted in bad
     faith or without reasonable belief that the Executive's action or omission
     was in the best interests of Laidlaw. Any act, or failure to act, based
     upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or
     based upon the advice of counsel for Laidlaw shall be conclusively presumed
     to be done, or omitted to be done, in good faith and in the best interests
     of Laidlaw. A termination of employment shall not be deemed to be for Cause
     unless prior to such termination the Executive shall have received a copy
     of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than a
     majority of the disinterested membership of the Board at a meeting of such
     Board called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided
     to the Executive and the Executive is given an opportunity to be heard
     before such Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board,
     the Executive is guilty of the conduct described in Subsection (i), (ii),
     (iii), (iv) or (v) of this Section (f) above.

(g)  "Change in Control" means the occurrence during the term of this Agreement
     of any of the following events:

     (i)  the acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning
          of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") of
          beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated
          under the Exchange Act) of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
          then-outstanding Voting Stock; provided, however, that the following
          acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any
          acquisition directly from Laidlaw, (B) any acquisition by Laidlaw, (C)
          any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust)
          sponsored or maintained by Laidlaw or any Subsidiary, or (D) any
          acquisition by any Person

2

pursuant to a transaction that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C)
          of Subsection (iii) of this Section (g);

     (ii) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the
          "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason (other than death or
          disability) to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided,
          however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the
          date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by Laidlaw's
          stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the
          directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (either by a specific
          vote or by approval of the proxy statement of Laidlaw in which such
          person is named as a nominee for director, without objection to such
          nomination) shall be considered as though such individual were a
          member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding for this purpose, any
          such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result
          of an actual or threatened election contest (within the meaning of
          Rule 14a-11 of the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or
          removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of
          proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board;

     (iii) consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or
          other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Laidlaw
          (a "Business Combination"), unless, in each case, immediately
          following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of
          the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of Voting
          Stock of Laidlaw immediately prior to such Business Combination
          beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent
          (50%) of the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined
          voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to
          vote generally in the election of directors of the entity resulting
          from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, an
          entity which as a result of such transaction owns Laidlaw or all or
          substantially all of Laidlaw's assets either directly or through one
          or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions relative
          to each other as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business
          Combination, of the Voting Stock of Laidlaw, (B) no Person (excluding
          any entity resulting from such Business Combination or any employee
          benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Laidlaw,
          any Subsidiary or such entity resulting from such Business
          Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, fifteen (15%)
          or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the entity
          resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power
          of the then outstanding voting securities of such entity except to the
          extent such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and
          (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of
          the entity resulting from such Business Combination were members of
          the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial
          agreement or of the action of the Board providing for such Business
          Combination; or

     (iv) approval by the stockholders of Laidlaw of a complete liquidation or
          dissolution of Laidlaw.

(h)  "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

3

(i)  "Committee" means the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the
     Board.

(j)  "Date of Termination" has the meaning ascribed to such term in Section (e)
     of Article 6.

(k)  "Effective Date" means the date first above written.

(l)  "Employee Benefits" means the perquisites, benefits and service credit for
     benefits as provided under any and all employee retirement income and
     welfare benefit policies, plans, programs or arrangements in which the
     Executive is entitled to participate, including, without limitation, any
     stock option, performance share, performance unit, stock purchase, stock
     appreciation, savings, pension, supplemental executive retirement, or other
     retirement income or welfare benefit, compensation, incentive compensation,
     group or other life, health, medical/hospital or other insurance (whether
     funded by actual insurance or self-insurance by Laidlaw or a Subsidiary),
     salary continuation, expense reimbursement and other employee benefit
     policies, plans, programs or arrangements.

(m)  "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

(n)  "Executive" means Mary B. Jordan.

(o)  "Good Reason" means the occurrence of one or more of the following events
     (regardless of whether any other reason, other than Cause, for such
     termination exists or has occurred, including, without limitation, other
     employment):

     (i)  With respect to the two (2) year period commencing on a Change in
          Control, the failure to elect or reelect or otherwise to maintain the
          Executive in the office or the position, or a substantially equivalent
          office or position, of or with Laidlaw and/or a Subsidiary (or any
          successor thereto by operation of law of or otherwise), as the case
          may be, which the Executive held immediately prior to a Change in
          Control, or the removal of the Executive as a director of Laidlaw
          and/or a Subsidiary (or any successor thereto) if the Executive shall
          have been a director of Laidlaw and/or a Subsidiary immediately prior
          to the Change in Control;

     (ii) With respect to the two (2) year period commencing on a Change in
          Control, (A) a significant adverse change in the nature or scope of
          the authorities, powers, functions, responsibilities or duties
          attached to the position with Laidlaw and any Subsidiary which the
          Executive held immediately prior to the Change in Control, (B) a
          reduction in the aggregate of the Executive's Base Salary received
          from Laidlaw and any Subsidiary or the Executive's Incentive Pay
          opportunity from Laidlaw or its Subsidiaries, or (C) the termination
          or denial of the Executive's rights to Employee Benefits or a
          reduction in the scope or value thereof to a level that is
          substantially lower in the aggregate from the level in effect at the
          time of the Change in Control, any of which is not remedied by Laidlaw
          within ten (10) calendar days after receipt by Laidlaw of written
          notice from the Executive of such change, reduction, denial or
          termination, as the case may be;

4

(iii) The liquidation, dissolution, merger, consolidation or reorganization
          of Laidlaw or transfer of all or substantially all of its business
          and/or assets, unless the successor or successors (by liquidation,
          merger, consolidation, reorganization, transfer or otherwise) to which
          all or substantially all of its business and/or assets have been
          transferred (by operation of law or otherwise) assumes all duties and
          obligations of Laidlaw under this Agreement pursuant to Section (a) of
          Article 14;

     (iv) Laidlaw relocates its principal executive offices (if such offices are
          the principal location of the Executive's work), or requires the
          Executive to have her principal location of work changed, to any
          location that, in either case, increases the Executive's commute to
          work by more than fifty (50) miles without her prior written consent;
          or

     (v)  Without limiting the generality or effect of the foregoing, any
          material breach of this Agreement by Laidlaw or any successor thereto
          which is not remedied by Laidlaw within ten (10) calendar days after
          receipt by Laidlaw of written notice from the Executive of such
          breach.

(p)  "Laidlaw" means Laidlaw International Inc., a Delaware corporation.

(q)  "Notice of Termination" has the meaning ascribed to such term in Section
     (d) of Article 6.

(r)  "Retirement Plans" means the retirement income, supplemental executive
     retirement, excess benefits and retiree medical, life and similar benefit
     plans, programs or arrangements of Laidlaw or a Subsidiary in which the
     Executive is entitled to participate.

(s)  "Subsidiary" means an entity in which Laidlaw directly or indirectly
     beneficially owns fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding Voting
     Stock.

(t)  "Target Bonus" has the meaning ascribed to such term in Section (b) of
     Article 4.

(u)  "Voting Stock" means securities entitled to vote generally in the election
     of directors.

ARTICLE 2 -- TERM OF THE AGREEMENT

The term of this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and shall
continue until terminated in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.

ARTICLE 3 -- TITLE; COMMENCEMENT OF EMPLOYMENT; REPORTING

The Executive shall serve as the Executive Vice President of Human Resources and
Internal Communications of Laidlaw. The Executive shall report to the Chief
Executive Officer.

ARTICLE 4 -- COMPENSATION

(a)  Unless otherwise provided, all dollar amounts set forth in this Agreement
     shall be in United States Dollars. The Base Salary of the Executive for her
     services is established by

5

the Committee at the annualized rate of Three Hundred Thousand Dollars
     ($300,000.00). The Base Salary shall be payable twice monthly on the
     fifteenth (15th) business day and the last business day of each month. The
     Base Salary shall be reviewed annually during Laidlaw's normal review
     period. The review will be undertaken by assessing the Executive's
     achievement of the overall objectives established by the Committee in
     consultation with the Executive and with regard to the market rates of
     remuneration paid for similar duties and responsibilities. As a result of
     such review, the Executive's Base Salary may be increased, but not
     decreased.

(b)  The Executive will be eligible to participate in and be eligible to receive
     an Annual Bonus under Laidlaw's Short Term Incentive Plan or any successor
     plan or program. For each fiscal year of Laidlaw, the Executive's target
     bonus shall be no less than fifty percent (50%) of Base Salary (the "Target
     Bonus") and the maximum bonus shall be no less than one hundred percent
     (100%) of Base Salary. The Executive's right to receive any bonus under
     Laidlaw's Short Term Incentive Plan shall be determined based upon
     measurements established by the Committee after consultation with the
     Executive and as set forth in accordance with Laidlaw's Short Term
     Incentive Plan.

(c)  The Executive shall participate in the Supplemental Executive Retirement
     Plan sponsored by Laidlaw for the benefit of its employees.

(d)  Subject to approval by the Committee, the Executive will be eligible to
     receive equity or equity based grants from time to time. Such grants will
     be on terms and conditions established by the Committee in accordance with
     the Laidlaw International, Inc. Amended and Restated 2003 Equity and
     Performance Incentive Plan or any successor plan.

ARTICLE 5 -- BENEFITS

(a)  AUTOMOBILE

     Laidlaw will provide the Executive with a monthly allowance of One Thousand
     Dollars ($1,000.00) for expenses incurred by the Executive for an
     automobile and its related operating expenses. Laidlaw shall also reimburse
     the Executive for reasonable gas and insurance expenses as incurred,
     provided that the Executive provides to Laidlaw an itemized written account
     and receipts acceptable to Laidlaw.

(b)  EXPENSES

     It is understood and agreed that the Executive will incur expenses in
     connection with her duties under this Agreement, including, but not limited
     to, travel expenses, home facsimile expenses, personal computer expenses
     and telephone expenses. Laidlaw shall reimburse the Executive for any such
     expenses provided that the Executive provides to Laidlaw an itemized
     written account and receipts acceptable to Laidlaw.

(c)  VACATION

     The Executive shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation during each
     calendar year. The vacation shall be taken at the discretion of the
     Executive with the understanding that the Executive will take into account
     business needs and operations in scheduling vacation. All vacation earned
     must be taken by the end of the calendar year following accrual or it

6

is forfeited.

(d)  WELFARE BENEFITS

     The Executive shall be entitled to those welfare benefit coverages as are
     offered by Laidlaw to its employees generally (such as medical insurance,
     dental insurance, short- and long-term disability insurance and group term
     life insurance), all in accordance with the employee benefit plans and
     policies maintained by Laidlaw or a Subsidiary for the benefit of employees
     of Laidlaw, and as amended from time to time.

(e)  CLUB MEMBERSHIP

     Laidlaw will reimburse the Executive for the one-time initiation fee in one
     business club that the Executive will use in connection with Laidlaw's
     business. Laidlaw will also reimburse the Executive for ongoing annual dues
     and business-related expenses incurred by the Executive in connection with
     the Executive's membership in such business club.

(f)  PROFESSIONAL EXPENSES

     Laidlaw will reimburse the Executive for up to Five Thousand Dollars
     ($5,000.00) annually for expenses incurred by the Executive in connection
     with the Executive's tax preparation and financial planning.

(g)  POST-TERMINATION RELOCATION REIMBURSEMENT

     In the event Executive's employment is terminated by Laidlaw without Cause
     during the first twelve (12) months of her employment with Laidlaw, Laidlaw
     will reimburse reasonable and appropriate relocation expenses associated
     with moving Executive from the Chicago area to Vancouver or similar
     destination in North America, provided that the Executive provides to
     Laidlaw an itemized written account and receipts acceptable to Laidlaw.

(h)  CHANGE IN CONTROL VESTING

     Upon a Change in Control, and notwithstanding any provision to the contrary
     in any applicable plan, program or agreement, upon the occurrence of a
     Change in Control, all equity incentive awards held by the Executive shall
     become fully vested and all stock options held by the Executive shall
     become fully exercisable.

ARTICLE 6 -- TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT

(a)  The parties understand and agree that this Agreement and the Executive's
     employment hereunder may be terminated in the following manner in the
     specified circumstances:

     (i)  The Executive's employment hereunder shall automatically terminate
          upon the death of the Executive.

     (ii) By Laidlaw, if, as a result of the Executive's incapacity due to
          physical or mental illness which is expected to be of more than a
          brief duration, the Executive has been unable to perform the essential
          functions of her job for one hundred and eighty (180) days (whether or
          not consecutive) during any period of eighteen (18) consecutive months
          ("Disability"), and no reasonable accommodation can be made that will
          allow Executive to perform the essential functions of her position

7

with Laidlaw. Upon such termination, the Executive shall be entitled
          to the same severance benefits and payments described in Subsection
          (v) or (vi), as applicable, as if such termination was a termination
          by Laidlaw without Cause.

     (iii) By the Executive, at any time, for any reason. Laidlaw may waive
          notice required by Section (d) of this Article 6, in whole or in part,
          upon immediate payment to the Executive of the Executive's Base Salary
          for such portion of notice period as is waived by Laidlaw. If such
          termination is for Good Reason, then unless the provisions of
          Subsection (vi) apply, the Executive shall be entitled to the same
          payments and benefits as provided in Subsection (v) for terminations
          by Laidlaw without Cause. If such termination is for any other reason,
          Laidlaw shall pay to the Executive the Accrued Obligations.

     (iv) By Laidlaw, in its absolute discretion, without any pay in lieu of
          notice, for Cause. Upon such termination, Laidlaw shall pay to the
          Executive the Accrued Obligations.

     (v)  By Laidlaw, in its absolute discretion and for any reason, without
          Cause. Upon such termination, unless the provisions of Subsection (vi)
          hereof apply, Laidlaw shall (A) continue to pay the Executive her Base
          Salary in effect at the time of such termination for a period of
          twenty-four (24) months following such termination, (B) provided such
          termination is following the second anniversary of her employment with
          Laidlaw (or any predecessor thereto), pay the Executive a monthly
          amount equal to one-twelfth of the Executive's Target Bonus in effect
          at the time of Executive's termination of employment for a period of
          twenty-four (24) months following such termination, (C) continue to
          provide the Executive term life insurance for a period of twenty-four
          (24) months after termination, or, if such benefits cannot be provided
          by Laidlaw, Laidlaw shall pay to the Executive an equivalent lump sum
          cash amount in lieu of such benefits, (D) continue to provide the
          Executive (and her eligible dependents) with the opportunity to
          continue to participate in its group medical and dental benefits (with
          such continuation being counted towards any required COBRA
          continuation period), at the Executive's sole expense based on COBRA
          rates charged from time to time; provided, however, that Laidlaw shall
          pay to the Executive over the twenty-four (24) month period an amount
          equal to the full COBRA cost of such coverage, and (E) pay to the
          Executive the Accrued Obligations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
          the Executive is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Code
          Section 409A at the Date of Termination, then

          (I)  the total amount which would have been payable to the Executive
               over the twenty-four (24) month period pursuant to this
               Subsection (v) shall instead be paid to the Executive in equal
               monthly amounts over the period commencing on the Date of
               Termination and ending no later than the first day of the third
               month following the later of (X) the calendar year in which the
               Date of Termination occurred and (Y) the fiscal year of Laidlaw
               in which the Date of Termination occurred, if such payments would
               not be subject to Code Section 409A, or

8

(II) if the payments specified in Clause (I) would be subject to Code
               Section 409A, then such payments shall be paid in the manner set
               forth above without regard to Clause (I) hereof, but payments
               which would otherwise have been made during the first six (6)
               months following the Date of Termination, shall be withheld and
               paid to the Executive during the seventh month following the Date
               of Termination, increased for interest as provided in Section (b)
               hereof.

     (vi) In the event that during the two (2) year period commencing on the
          date of a Change in Control, Laidlaw terminates the Executive's
          employment without Cause or the Executive terminates employment for
          Good Reason, Laidlaw shall pay to the Executive the amounts described
          in Annex A within five (5) business days after the Date of Termination
          and shall provide to the Executive the benefits described on Annex A
          for the periods described therein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in
          the event that the Executive is at the Date of Termination a
          "specified employee" within the meaning of Code Section 409A, payment
          to the Executive shall be made within five (5) days following the
          expiration of six (6) months from the Date of Termination, and not
          before such six (6) month period, if necessary to avoid adverse tax
          consequences to the Executive under Code Section 409A.

(b)  Without limiting the rights of the Executive at law or in equity, in the
     event it is determined that Laidlaw fails to make any payment or provide
     any benefit required to be made or provided under Section (a) hereof on a
     timely basis, Laidlaw shall pay interest on the amount or value thereof at
     an annualized rate of interest equal to the so-called composite "prime
     rate" as quoted from time to time during the relevant period in The Wall
     Street Journal. Any change in such prime rate shall be effective on and as
     of the date of such change. In addition, if any payment described in
     Subsection (v) or (vi) of Section (a) hereof by Laidlaw subjects the
     Executive to the excise tax under Code Section 409A on such payment,
     Laidlaw shall pay on the Executive's behalf to the applicable taxing
     authorities, an amount which, after payment of all state, local and federal
     income and employment taxes which may be due on such payment (calculated at
     the highest marginal rates), is equal to the excise tax under Code Section
     409A which arose as a result of Laidlaw's delay or acceleration in making
     such payment.

(c)  In order to receive the entitlement under Subsection (vi) of Section (a)
     hereof, or Clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Subsection (v) of Section (a) hereof
     (whether such termination is by the Executive for Good Reason or by Laidlaw
     without Cause), the Executive must undertake to sign a release in a form
     satisfactory to Laidlaw, fully releasing Laidlaw from further claims upon
     payment of the amounts stipulated herein and must not revoke such release.
     However, the form of release shall not require that the Executive give up
     any rights of indemnity which the Executive may have had against Laidlaw
     for acts carried out by the Executive in the ordinary course of Laidlaw's
     business, nor shall it require the release of the benefits under this
     Agreement payable due to or after the Executive's termination of
     employment. Laidlaw may withhold payment of such amount until the period
     during which the Executive may revoke such waiver (normally seven (7) days)
     has elapsed.

9

(d)  Any purported termination of the Executive's employment by Laidlaw or by
     the Executive shall be communicated by written Notice of Termination to the
     other party hereto in accordance with Article 15. "Notice of Termination"
     shall mean a notice that shall indicate the specific termination provision
     in this Agreement relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the
     facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the
     Executive's employment under the provision so indicated.

(e)  "Date of Termination" shall mean (i) if the Executive's employment is
     terminated because of death, the date of the Executive's death, (ii) if the
     Executive's employment is terminated for Disability, the date Notice of
     Termination is delivered to the Executive following a determination that
     Disability exists pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, (iii) if
     the Executive's employment is terminated by Laidlaw for any other reason
     other than Disability or for Cause or if the Executive terminates
     employment for Good Reason, the date specified in the Notice of Termination
     which shall not be less than thirty (30) days from the date such Notice of
     Termination is given, (iv) if the Executive's employment is terminated by
     Laidlaw for reasons of Cause, immediately upon delivery of the Notice of
     Termination and the expiration of any cure period provided under Section
     (d) of Article I, and (v) if the Executive's employment is terminated by
     the Executive pursuant to Subsection (iii) of Section (a) of this Article
     for reasons other than Good Reason, the date specified in the Notice of
     Termination which shall not be less than ninety (90) days from the date
     such Notice of Termination is given.

(f)  Any termination of employment of the Executive or the removal of the
     Executive from the office or position in Laidlaw or any Subsidiary that
     occurs (i) not more than ninety (90) days prior to the date on which a
     Change in Control occurs, and (ii) following the commencement of any
     discussion with a third person that ultimately results in a Change in
     Control, shall be deemed to be a termination or removal of the Executive
     within the two (2) year period commencing on a Change in Control for
     purposes of this Agreement and the term of this Agreement shall be deemed
     to have been extended until such Change in Control solely for purposes of
     determining any payments due to the Executive as a result of such
     termination.

ARTICLE 7 -- RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS

(a)  Ownership and Protection of Proprietary Information.

     (i)  "Confidential Information" means data and information relating to the
          business of Laidlaw (which does not rise to the status of a Trade
          Secret) which is or has been disclosed to the Executive or of which
          the Executive became aware as a consequence of or through her
          employment relationship to Laidlaw and which has value to Laidlaw or
          its Subsidiaries and is not generally known to its competitors.
          Confidential Information shall not include any data or information
          that has been voluntarily disclosed to the public by Laidlaw or its
          Subsidiaries (except where such public disclosure has been made by the
          Executive without authorization) or that has been independently
          developed and disclosed by others, or that otherwise enters the public
          domain through lawful means.

10

(ii) "Trade Secrets" means information including, but not limited to,
          technical or non-technical data, formulas, patterns, compilations,
          programs, devices, methods, techniques, drawings, processes, financial
          data, financial plans, or product plans which (i) derives economic
          value, actual or potential, from not being generally known to, and not
          being readily ascertainable by proper means by, other persons who can
          obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, and (ii) is the
          subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to
          maintain its secrecy.

     (iii) Confidentiality. All Confidential Information and Trade Secrets and
          all physical embodiments thereof received or developed by the
          Executive while employed by Laidlaw are confidential to and are and
          will remain the sole and exclusive property of Laidlaw or its
          Subsidiaries. Except to the extent necessary to perform the duties
          assigned to her by Laidlaw, the Executive will hold such Confidential
          Information and Trade Secrets in strictest confidence, and will not
          use, reproduce, distribute, disclose or otherwise disseminate the
          Confidential Information and Trade Secrets or any physical embodiments
          thereof and may in no event take any action causing any Confidential
          Information and Trade Secrets disclosed to or developed by the
          Executive to lose its character or cease to qualify as Confidential
          Information or Trade Secrets.

     (iv) Return of Company Property. Upon request by Laidlaw or its
          Subsidiaries, and in any event upon termination of the employment of
          the Executive with Laidlaw for any reason, as a prior condition to
          receiving any final compensation hereunder, the Executive will
          promptly deliver to Laidlaw or its Subsidiaries all property belonging
          to Laidlaw, including, without limitation, all Confidential
          Information and Trade Secrets (and all embodiments thereof) then in
          the Executive's custody, control or possession.

     (v)  Survival. The covenants of confidentiality set forth herein will apply
          on and after the date hereof to any Confidential Information and Trade
          Secrets disclosed by Laidlaw or its Subsidiaries or developed by the
          Executive prior to or after the date hereof. The covenants restricting
          the use of Confidential Information will continue and be maintained by
          the Executive for a period of two (2) years following the Date of
          Termination under this Agreement. The covenants restricting the use of
          Trade Secrets will continue and be maintained by the Executive
          following the Date of Termination under this Agreement for so long as
          permitted by applicable law.

(b)  Non-Solicitation of Employees. During the Term and for a period of two (2)
     years following the Date of Termination of her employment, the Executive
     shall not, directly or indirectly, solicit or induce any employee of
     Laidlaw or its Subsidiaries, with whom the Executive has had material
     contact during her employment, to terminate employment with Laidlaw or the
     Subsidiary in favor of employment by any person, firm, or entity affiliated
     with the Executive; provided, however, that the foregoing covenant shall
     not apply to general solicitations for a position not specifically directed
     to a particular individual which is contained in newspapers, magazines,
     periodicals or electronic media of general circulation. This provision will
     apply whether or not the Executive who is solicited or induced to terminate
     her employment is employed pursuant to a written

11

agreement and whether or not her employment is for a determined period or
     at-will.

(c)  Non-Solicitation of Customers. The Executive agrees that during the Term
     and for a period of two (2) years following the Date of Termination of her
     employment, the Executive will not, either directly or indirectly, on the
     Executive's own behalf or in the service of or on behalf of others,
     solicit, divert or appropriate, or attempt to solicit, divert or
     appropriate, to a business involving the provision of contract bus services
     for school bus transportation in Canada and/or the United States, municipal
     and paratransit bus transportation within the United States, or inter-city
     and tourism bus transportation throughout North America (a "Competing
     Business"), any individual or entity which was an actual or actively sought
     prospective client or customer of Laidlaw or its Subsidiaries and with whom
     the Executive had material contact during the Executive's last two (2)
     years of employment with Laidlaw. Nothing in this Section (c) shall be
     construed to restrict the Executive from working for a Competing Business
     solely because such Competing Business does business with a client or
     customer of Laidlaw or its Subsidiaries or prospective client or customer
     of Laidlaw or its Subsidiaries or because individuals of such Competing
     Business who have contact with such clients or customers report directly or
     indirectly to the Executive.

(d)  Non-Competition. The Executive agrees that during employment pursuant to
     this Agreement and for twenty-four (24) months following termination
     without Cause of her employment by Laidlaw and payment of the severance
     payment amount and benefit continuation as detailed in Subsection (v) or
     (vi), as applicable, of Section (a) of Article 6, she shall not either
     individually or in partnership, or jointly in conjunction with any other
     person, entity or organization, as principal, agent, consultant, lender,
     contractor, employer, employee, investor, shareholder, or in any other
     manner, directly or indirectly, advise, manage, carry on, establish,
     control, engage in, invest in, offer financial assistance or services to,
     or permit her name to be used by any Competing Business that competes with
     the then-existing business of Laidlaw or its Subsidiaries, provided that
     the Executive shall be entitled, for investment purposes, to purchase and
     trade shares of a public company which are listed and posted for trading on
     a recognized stock exchange and the business of which public company may be
     in competition with the business of Laidlaw or its Subsidiaries, provided
     that the Executive shall not directly or indirectly own more than five
     percent (5%) of the issued share capital of the public company, or
     participate in its management or operation, or in any advisory capacity
     within the time limits set out herein.

(e)  Enforcement of Covenants. Without limiting the right of Laidlaw to pursue
     all other legal and equitable remedies available for violation by the
     Executive of the covenants contained in this Article 7, it is expressly
     agreed by the Executive and Laidlaw that other remedies cannot fully
     compensate Laidlaw for any violation by the Executive of the covenants
     contained in this Article 7 and that Laidlaw shall be entitled to
     injunctive relief, without the necessity of proving actual monetary loss,
     to prevent any such violation or any continuing violation thereof. Laidlaw
     and the Executive further agree that all payments under Subsection (v) or
     Subsection (vi), as applicable, of Section (a) of Article 6 hereof shall
     immediately cease and shall no longer be an obligation of Laidlaw in the
     event of any violation of the covenants contained in Sections (b) or (c)
     hereof which is not cured within (10) days of written notice by Laidlaw to
     the Executive of such

12

violation or of a willful and material violation of the covenants contained
     in Section (d) hereof. Laidlaw and the Executive further agree that such
     forfeiture shall not be deemed to be liquidated damages for breach of such
     covenants. Each party intends and agrees that if in any action before any
     court or agency legally empowered to enforce the covenants contained in
     this Article 7, any term, restriction, covenant or promise contained herein
     is found to be unreasonable and accordingly unenforceable, then such term,
     restriction, covenant or promise shall be deemed modified to the extent
     necessary to make it enforceable by such court or agency.

ARTICLE 8 -- AUTHORITY

(a)  The Executive shall have such duties, responsibilities and authority as are
     reasonable and appropriate for the Executive's title and position and as
     are assigned to her by the Chief Executive Officer and the Board from time
     to time. The Executive shall support the Chief Executive Officer in
     carrying out the general or specific instructions and directions of the
     Chief Executive Officer and the Board and together with the Chief Executive
     Officer in doing so, may enter into contracts, engagements or commitments
     of every nature or kind, in the name of and on behalf of Laidlaw, and may
     engage, employ and dismiss all managers and other employees and agents of
     Laidlaw, subject to the by-laws and charter documents of Laidlaw and the
     authority given her by Laidlaw from time to time.

(b)  The Executive shall conform to all lawful instructions and directions given
     to her by the Chief Executive Officer and the Board and obey and carry out
     the by-laws of Laidlaw.

ARTICLE 9 -- SERVICE

The Executive, throughout the term of her employment, shall devote her full time
and attention to the business and affairs of Laidlaw, and shall not undertake
any other business or occupation or, unless approved by the Chief Executive
Officer or as a part of her job functions or responsibilities, become either (i)
an officer, employee or agent of any other company or firm which is a commercial
venture or (ii) a director of more than two companies or firms which are
commercial ventures. The Executive shall well and faithfully serve Laidlaw and
use her best efforts to promote the interests thereof.

ARTICLE 10 -- CERTAIN ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS

(a)  Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding and except as
     set forth below, in the event it shall be determined that any Payment would
     be subject to the Excise Tax, then the Executive shall be entitled to
     receive an additional payment (the "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such
     that, after payment by the Executive of all taxes (and any interest or
     penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without
     limitation, any income taxes (and any interest and penalties imposed with
     respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment and after
     the payment of all additional taxes and interest imposed under Code Section
     409A(a)(1)(B) on the Gross-Up Payment and any severance payment made to the
     Executive hereunder, the Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up
     Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. Notwithstanding
     the foregoing provisions of this Section (a), if it shall be

13

determined that the Executive is entitled to the Gross-Up Payment, but that
     the Parachute Value of all Payments does not exceed 110% of the Safe Harbor
     Amount, then no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to the Executive and the
     amounts payable under this Agreement shall be reduced so that the Parachute
     Value of all Payments, in the aggregate, equals the Safe Harbor Amount. The
     reduction of the amounts payable hereunder, if applicable, shall be made by
     first reducing the cash payments under Annex A unless an alternative method
     of reduction is elected by the Executive, and in any event shall be made in
     such a manner as to maximize the Value of all Payments actually made to the
     Executive. For purposes of reducing the Payments to the Safe Harbor Amount,
     only amounts payable under this Agreement (and no other Payments) shall be
     reduced. If the reduction of the amount payable under this Agreement would
     not result in a reduction of the Parachute Value of all Payments to the
     Safe Harbor Amount, no amounts payable under this Agreement shall be
     reduced pursuant to this Section (a). Laidlaw's obligations under this
     Article 10 shall not be conditioned upon the Executive's termination of
     employment, and they shall survive the termination of the Executive's
     employment and the Term with respect to any Payments that are determined by
     the Accounting Firm to be contingent on a "change of control" (as defined
     in Code Section 280G) of Laidlaw that occurs during the Term.

(b)  Subject to the provisions of Section (c) hereof, all determinations
     required to be made under this Article 10, including whether and when a
     Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the
     assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination shall be made
     by the independent accounting firm regularly servicing Laidlaw prior to the
     Change in Control, or such other nationally recognized certified public
     accounting firm as may be designated by the Executive (the "Accounting
     Firm"). The Accounting Firm shall provide detailed supporting calculations
     both to Laidlaw and the Executive within fifteen (15) business days of the
     receipt of notice from the Executive that there has been a Payment or such
     earlier time as is requested by Laidlaw. In the event that the Accounting
     Firm is serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or
     group effecting the Change in Control, the Executive may appoint another
     nationally recognized accounting firm to make the determinations required
     hereunder (which accounting firm shall then be referred to as the
     Accounting Firm hereunder). All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm
     shall be borne solely by Laidlaw. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined
     pursuant to this Article 10, shall be paid by Laidlaw to the Executive or
     the applicable taxing authorities within five (5) business days of the
     receipt of the Accounting Firm's determination, which determination shall
     be made no later than the end of the second month following the later of
     (i) the calendar year in which the Executive's employment with Laidlaw
     terminates or (ii) the taxable year of Laidlaw in which the Executive's
     employment with Laidlaw terminates. In the event that such determination
     cannot be made within such period, payment may be made as soon as
     practicable after such determination can be made. Any determination by the
     Accounting Firm shall be binding upon Laidlaw and the Executive. As a
     result of the uncertainty in the application of Code Section 4999 at the
     time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is
     possible that Gross-Up Payments that will not have been made by Laidlaw
     should have been made (the "Underpayment"), consistent with the
     calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event Laidlaw exhausts
     its remedies pursuant to Section (c) hereof and the Executive thereafter is
     required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall
     determine the amount of the Underpayment

14

that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by
     Laidlaw to or for the benefit of the Executive.

(c)  The Executive shall notify Laidlaw in writing of any claim by the Internal
     Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by Laidlaw
     of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as
     practicable, but no later than ten (10) business days after the Executive
     is informed in writing of such claim. The Executive shall apprise Laidlaw
     of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested
     to be paid. The Executive shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration
     of the thirty (30) day period following the date on which the Executive
     gives such notice to Laidlaw (or such shorter period ending on the date
     that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If Laidlaw
     notifies the Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such period
     that Laidlaw desires to contest such claim, the Executive shall:

          (i)  give Laidlaw any information reasonably requested by Laidlaw
               relating to such claim,

          (ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as
               Laidlaw shall reasonably request in writing from time to time,
               including, without limitation, accepting legal representation
               with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by
               Laidlaw,

          (iii) cooperate with Laidlaw in good faith in order to effectively
               contest such claim, and

          (iv) permit Laidlaw to participate in any proceedings relating to such
               claim;

     provided, however, that Laidlaw shall bear and pay directly all costs and
     expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in
     connection with such contest, and shall indemnify and hold the Executive
     harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax
     (including interest and penalties) imposed as a result of such
     representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation on the
     foregoing provisions of this Section (c), Laidlaw shall control all
     proceedings taken in connection with such contest, and, at its sole
     discretion, may pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals,
     proceedings, hearings and conferences with the applicable taxing authority
     in respect of such claim and may, at its sole discretion, either direct the
     Executive to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim
     in any permissible manner, and the Executive agrees to prosecute such
     contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court
     of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as Laidlaw
     shall determine; provided, however, that if Laidlaw directs the Executive
     to pay such claim and sue for a refund, Laidlaw shall advance the amount of
     such payment to the Executive, on an interest-free basis, and shall
     indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any
     Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties) imposed with
     respect to such advance or with respect to any imputed income in connection
     with such advance; and provided, further, that any extension of the statute
     of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the
     Executive with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due
     is

15

limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, Laidlaw's control of
     the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which the Gross-Up
     Payment would be payable hereunder, and the Executive shall be entitled to
     settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the
     Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.

(d)  If, after the receipt by the Executive of a Gross-Up Payment or an amount
     advanced by Laidlaw pursuant to Section (c) hereof, the Executive becomes
     entitled to receive any refund with respect to the Excise Tax to which such
     Gross-Up Payment relates or with respect to such claim, the Executive shall
     (subject to Laidlaw's complying with the requirements of Section (c)
     hereof, if applicable) promptly pay to Laidlaw the amount of such refund
     (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable
     thereto). If, after the receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by
     Laidlaw pursuant to Section (c) hereof, a determination is made that the
     Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim
     and Laidlaw does not notify the Executive in writing of its intent to
     contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of thirty (30) days
     after such determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not
     be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance shall offset, to
     the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.

(e)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article 10, Laidlaw may, in its
     sole discretion, withhold and pay over to the Internal Revenue Service or
     any other applicable taxing authority, for the benefit of the Executive,
     all or any portion of any Gross-Up Payment, and the Executive hereby
     consents to such withholding.

(f)  Definitions. The following terms shall have the following meanings for
     purposes of this Article 10.

     (i)  "Excise Tax" shall mean the excise tax imposed by Code Section 4999,
          together with any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such
          excise tax.

     (ii) "Parachute Value" of a Payment shall mean the present value as of the
          date of the change of control for purposes of Code Section 280G of the
          portion of such Payment that constitutes a "parachute payment" under
          Code Section 280G(b)(2), as determined by the Accounting Firm for
          purposes of determining whether and to what extent the Excise Tax will
          apply to such Payment.

     (iii) "Payment" shall mean any payment or distribution in the nature of
          compensation (within the meaning of Code Section 280G(b)(2)) to or for
          the benefit of the Executive, whether paid or payable pursuant to this
          Agreement or otherwise.

     (iv) "Safe Harbor Amount" means 2.99 times the Executive's "base amount,"
          within the meaning of Code Section 280G(b)(3).

     (v)  "Value" of a Payment shall mean the economic present value of a
          Payment as of the date of the change of control for purposes of Code
          Section 280G, as determined by the Accounting Firm using the discount
          rate required by Code Section 280G(d)(4).

16

ARTICLE 11 -- NON-EXCLUSIVITY OF RIGHTS

Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive's continuing or
future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other plan or program
provided by Laidlaw or any of its affiliates and for which the Executive may
qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise prejudice such rights as
the Executive may have under any other agreements with Laidlaw or any of its
affiliates, including, but not limited to stock option, deferred share, or
restricted stock agreements. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the
Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan or program of Laidlaw
or any of its affiliates at or subsequent to the Date of Termination shall be
payable in accordance with such plan or program.

ARTICLE 12 -- FULL SETTLEMENT

Except as provided in Article 7, Laidlaw's obligation to make the payments
provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations
hereunder shall not be affected by any circumstances, including, without
limitation, any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which
Laidlaw may have against the Executive or others whether by reason of the
subsequent employment of the Executive or otherwise. In no event shall the
Executive be obligated to seek other employment by way of mitigation of the
amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Without otherwise limiting the purpose or effect of this Article 12, employee
benefits (as described in Section 2 of Annex A) otherwise receivable by the
Executive pursuant to Section 2 of Annex A will be reduced to the extent
comparable welfare benefits are actually received by the Executive from another
employer during the Continuation Period (as defined in Annex A) following the
Executive's Date of Termination, and any such benefits actually received by the
Executive shall be reported by the Executive to Laidlaw.

ARTICLE 13 -- POST-TERMINATION ASSISTANCE

Executive shall provide such information and assistance to Laidlaw as Laidlaw
may reasonably request, upon reasonable notice, in connection with any
litigation in which it or any of its affiliates is or may become a party.
Laidlaw shall reimburse the Executive for any expenses, including travel
expenses, incurred by the Executive in connection with providing such
information and assistance.

ARTICLE 14 -- ASSIGNMENT OF RIGHTS

(a)  Laidlaw will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by
     purchase, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise) to all or
     substantially all of the business or assets of Laidlaw, by agreement in
     form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Executive, expressly to
     assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the
     same extent Laidlaw would be required to perform if no such succession had
     taken place. This Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit
     of Laidlaw and any successor to Laidlaw, including, without limitation, any
     persons acquiring directly or indirectly all or substantially all of the
     business or assets of Laidlaw whether by purchase, merger, consolidation,
     reorganization or otherwise (and such successor shall thereafter be deemed
     "Laidlaw" for the purposes of this Agreement), but will not otherwise be
     assignable, transferable or delegable by Laidlaw.

17

(b)  This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the
     Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators,
     successors, heirs, distributees and legatees.

(c)  This Agreement is personal in nature and neither of the parties hereto
     shall, without the consent of the other, assign, transfer or delegate this
     Agreement or any rights or obligations hereunder except as expressly
     provided in Sections (a) and (b) hereof. Without limiting the generality or
     effect of the foregoing, the Executive's right to receive payments
     hereunder will not be assignable, transferable or delegable, whether by
     pledge, creation of a security interest, or otherwise, other than by a
     transfer by Executive's will or by the laws of descent and distribution
     and, in the event of any attempted assignment or transfer contrary to this
     Section (c), Laidlaw shall have no liability to pay any amount so attempted
     to be assigned, transferred or delegated.

ARTICLE 15 -- NOTICES

All notices and other communications required or permitted hereunder, or
necessary or convenient in connection herewith, shall be in writing and shall be
deemed to have been given when hand delivered, delivered by facsimile or mailed
by registered mail as follows (provided that notice of change of address shall
be deemed given only when received):

If to Laidlaw, to:

     General Counsel
     Laidlaw International, Inc.
     55 Shuman Boulevard, Suite 400
     Naperville, IL 60563

If to the Executive, at such address as Executive provides to Laidlaw from time
to time as part of her personnel records, or to such other names or addresses as
Laidlaw or the Executive shall designate by notice to the other in the manner
specified in this Article 15.

ARTICLE 16 -- LIABILITY INSURANCE

Laidlaw shall maintain the Executive's liability insurance in accordance with
Laidlaw's corporate policy and applicable law.

ARTICLE 17 -- INDEMNIFICATION

Laidlaw agrees that if the Executive is made a party to any action, suit,
proceeding or any other claim whatsoever, by reason of the fact that the
Executive is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of Laidlaw, or is or
was serving at the request of Laidlaw as a director, officer, employee or agent
of another Laidlaw, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise,
including acting as a fiduciary of an employee benefit plan of Laidlaw or one of
its Affiliates, whether or not the basis of such claim is the Executive's
alleged action in an official capacity while in service as a director, officer,
employee or agent of Laidlaw or fiduciary of such employee benefit plan, the
Executive shall be indemnified and held harmless by Laidlaw to the

18

fullest extent legally permitted or authorized by Laidlaw's certificate of
incorporation or bylaws or Board resolutions against all expenses, liability and
loss, including, without limitation, legal fees, fines or penalties and amounts
paid or to be paid in settlement, all as reasonably incurred by the Executive in
connection therewith, and such indemnification shall continue as to the
Executive even after the Executive has ceased to be a director, officer,
employee or agent of Laidlaw or fiduciary of such employee benefit plan, and
shall inure to the benefit of the Executive's heirs, executors and
administrators.

ARTICLE 18 -- LEGAL FEES AND EXPENSES

It is the intent of Laidlaw that the Executive not be required to incur legal
fees and the related expenses associated with the interpretation, enforcement or
defense of the Executive's rights under this Agreement with respect to any
termination of the Executive's employment occurring during the two (2) year
period commencing on a Change in Control, by litigation or otherwise because the
cost and expense thereof would substantially detract from the benefits intended
to be extended to the Executive hereunder. Accordingly, if the Executive
reasonably believes that Laidlaw has failed to comply with any of its
obligations under this Agreement during the two (2) year period commencing on
the date of a Change in Control or in the event that Laidlaw or any other person
takes or threatens to take any action to declare this Agreement void or
unenforceable, or institutes any litigation or other action or proceeding
designed to deny, or to recover from, the Executive the benefits provided or
intended to be provided to the Executive hereunder, subject to the other
provisions of this Article 18, Laidlaw irrevocably authorizes the Executive from
time to time to retain counsel of the Executive's choice, at the expense of
Laidlaw to the extent and as hereafter provided, to advise and represent the
Executive in connection with any such interpretation, enforcement or defense,
including, without limitation, the initiation or defense of any litigation or
other legal action, whether by or against Laidlaw or any director, officer,
stockholder or other person affiliated with Laidlaw, in any jurisdiction.
Notwithstanding any existing or prior attorney-client relationship between
Laidlaw and such counsel, Laidlaw irrevocably consents to the Executive's
entering into an attorney-client relationship with such counsel, and in that
connection Laidlaw and the Executive agree that a confidential relationship
shall exist between the Executive and such counsel. Laidlaw will pay and be
solely responsible for any and all attorneys' and related fees and expenses
incurred by the Executive in connection with any of the foregoing, except to the
extent that the Executive fails to prevail on a material claim in any such
proceeding described in this Article 18.

ARTICLE 19 -- SURVIVAL

The provisions of this Agreement which are intended to be performed following
the termination of the Executive's employment with Laidlaw and/or the expiration
or earlier termination of the term of this Agreement, shall survive such
termination, expiration or earlier termination, including without limitation the
provisions of Articles 6, 7, 10, 13, 17 and 18.

ARTICLE 20 -- WITHHOLDING OF TAXES

Laidlaw shall be entitled to withhold from any amounts payable under this
Agreement all taxes as legally shall be required pursuant to applicable federal,
state or local laws. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Laidlaw
shall not be obligated to compensate the Executive for the payment of such
taxes.

19

ARTICLE 21 -- SEVERABILITY

If any provision of this Agreement or the application thereof to anyone, or
under any circumstances, is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable in any
jurisdiction, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other
provision or application of this Agreement which can be given effect without the
invalid or unenforceable provision or application and shall not invalidate or
render unenforceable such provision or application in any other jurisdiction. If
any provision of this Agreement or the application of any provision hereof to
any person or circumstances is held invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal,
the provision so held to be invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal will be
reformed to the extent (and only to the extent) necessary to make it
enforceable, valid or legal.

ARTICLE 22 -- ENTIRE AGREEMENT

This Agreement, including Annex A hereto, constitutes the entire agreement
between the parties with respect to the employment and appointment of the
Executive and any and all previous agreements, written or oral, express or
implied, between the parties or on their behalf, relating to the employment and
appointment of the Executive by Laidlaw, are terminated and cancelled and each
of the parties releases and forever discharges the other of and from all manner
of actions, causes of action, claims and demands whatsoever, under or in respect
of any previous agreement; provided, however, that this does not terminate or
cancel the separate indemnification agreement between Laidlaw and the Executive.

ARTICLE 23 -- AMENDMENT, WAIVER, ETC.

No provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived or discharged unless such
waiver, modification or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by the
Executive and Laidlaw. No waiver by any party hereto at any time of any breach
by any other party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition of this
Agreement to be performed by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of
similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or
subsequent time.

ARTICLE 24 -- HEADINGS

The headings used in this Agreement are for convenience only and are not to be
construed in any way as additions to or limitations of the covenants and
agreements contained in it.

ARTICLE 25 -- COUNTERPARTS

This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall
be deemed to be an original but all of which together will constitute one and
the same instrument.

ARTICLE 26 -- GENDER AND NUMBER

Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein
shall also include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular, the
singular shall include the plural.

20

ARTICLE 27 -- GOVERNING LAW

This Agreement shall be governed by the internal law, and not the laws of
conflicts, of the State of Delaware.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the 1st day
of August, 2006.

                                        LAIDLAW INTERNATIONAL INC.

BY: /S/ KEVIN E. BENSON
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        NAME: KEVIN E. BENSON
                                        TITLE: PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
                                               OFFICER

EXECUTIVE

/s/ Mary B. Jordan
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        MARY B. JORDAN

21

ANNEX A

     1. Laidlaw shall pay to the Executive a lump sum payment in an amount equal
to two (2) times the sum of (A) Base Salary (at the highest rate in effect for
any period prior to the Date of Termination), plus (B) Annual Bonus (in an
amount equal to not less than the higher of (x) the highest aggregate Annual
Bonus earned in any fiscal year after the Change in Control or in any of the
three (3) fiscal years immediately preceding the year in which the Change in
Control occurred or (y) the Target Bonus for the year in which the Change in
Control occurred).

     2. Laidlaw shall, for a period of twenty-four (24) months following the
Termination Date (the "Continuation Period"), arrange to provide the Executive
with Employee Benefits that are welfare benefits within the meaning of Section
3(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended,
substantially similar to those that the Executive was receiving or entitled to
receive immediately prior to the Date of Termination (or, if greater,
immediately prior to the reduction, termination or denial described in
Subsection (ii) of Section (o) of Article 1 of the Agreement), at the expense of
Laidlaw with respect to all such benefits other than medical or dental benefits,
except that the level of any such Employee Benefits to be provided to the
Executive may be reduced in the event of a corresponding reduction generally
applicable to all recipients of or participants in such Employee Benefits. With
respect to medical and dental benefits, the Executive (and her eligible
dependents) will be entitled to continue to participate in such plans during the
Continuation Period (which continuation shall count toward any required COBRA
continuation) at the Executive's sole expense based on COBRA rates charged from
time to time; provided, however, that Laidlaw shall pay to the Executive at the
time payment is made of the amount in Section 1 of this Annex, an amount equal
to the full COBRA cost of such coverage during the Continuation Period. Without
otherwise limiting the purpose or effect of Article 12 of the Agreement,
Employee Benefits otherwise receivable by the Executive pursuant to this Section
2 (but not the amount paid by Laidlaw for medical and dental coverage) will be
reduced to the extent comparable welfare benefits are actually received by the
Executive from another employer during the Continuation Period following the
Executive's Date of Termination, and any such benefits actually received by the
Executive shall be reported by the Executive to Laidlaw.

     Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that a plan or program
providing any such welfare benefit does not allow for the continuation of such
benefit and either cannot be amended without adverse tax consequences to
participants or the insurance company providing such benefit is unwilling to
provide for such continuation, then Laidlaw shall pay to the Executive, at the
same time as payment of the amount under Section 1 of this Annex is made, an
amount equal to the cost to Laidlaw, determined at the cost as of the date of
such payment, of providing such benefit for the Continuation Period, and
thereafter Laidlaw shall have no obligation to provide such benefit to the
Executive.

     3. The Continuation Period will be considered service with Laidlaw for the
purpose of determining vesting for the Executive under Laidlaw's retirement
income, supplemental executive retirement and other benefit plans of Laidlaw
applicable to the Executive, except to the extent that to do so would jeopardize
the tax-qualified status of any such plan.

     4. In addition to the retirement income, supplemental executive retirement,
and other benefits to which the Executive is entitled under the Retirement
Plans, a lump sum payment in an

22

amount equal to the actuarial equivalent of the excess of (x) the retirement
pension and the medical, life and other benefits that would be payable to the
Executive under the Retirement Plans if the Executive continued to be employed
through the Continuation Period given the Executive's Base Salary (as determined
in Section 1 hereof) (without regard to any amendment to the Retirement Plans
made subsequent to a Change in Control which adversely affects in any manner the
computation of retirement or welfare benefits thereunder), over (y) the
retirement pension and the medical, life and other benefits that the Executive
is entitled to receive (either immediately or on a deferred basis) under the
Retirement Plans. For purposes of this Section, "actuarial equivalent" shall be
determined using the actuarial assumptions mandated under Code Section 417(e)(3)
in effect for the month second preceding the date of payment and the
Continuation Period will be considered service with Laidlaw for the purpose of
determining vesting, service credits and benefits under clause (x) hereof.

     5. Reasonable outplacement services by a firm selected by the Executive, at
the expense of Laidlaw, in an amount up to Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars
($25,000.00).

23

</EX-10.15>

<EX-10.17>
 4
 c09920exv10w17.txt
 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION POLICY

Exhibit 10.17

                                                      As amended on July 5, 2006

                           LAIDLAW INTERNATIONAL, INC.
                    NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION POLICY

                                    ARTICLE I
                                  INTRODUCTION

     1.1. PURPOSE. The purpose of this Laidlaw International, Inc. Non-Employee
Director Compensation Policy (the "Policy") is to set forth the policy of
Laidlaw International, Inc. with respect to the compensation of its non-employee
directors, subject, in the case of Equity Awards, to the terms of the Amended
and Restated Laidlaw International, Inc. 2003 Equity and Performance Incentive
Plan (the "Plan").

     1.2. EFFECTIVE DATE OF POLICY. The Policy shall be effective as of November
19, 2003 (the "Effective Date").

     1.3. DEFINITIONS. The following terms, when used in this Policy, shall have
the meanings set forth below. Capitalized terms used herein but not otherwise
defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.

     ANNUAL GRANT DATE shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1 of this
Policy.

     BENEFICIARY means the individual(s) or entity or combination thereof
designated by the Non-Employee Director to receive the balance of the
Non-Employee Director's Deferral Account in the event of the Non-Employee
Director's death. To be effective, any Beneficiary designation shall be filed in
writing with the Committee or the Committee's designee. A Non-Employee Director
may revoke an existing Beneficiary designation by filing another written
Beneficiary designation with the Committee. The latest Beneficiary designation
received by the Committee shall be controlling. If no Beneficiary is named by a
Non-Employee Director or if he or she survives all of the named Beneficiaries,
the Deferral Account shall be paid in the following order of precedence: (i) to
the Non-Employee Director's spouse, if living at the time of the Non-Employee
Director's death; (ii) per stirpes to the Non-Employee Director's descendants
(including adopted children) living at the time of the Non-Employee Director's
death; or (iii) to the Non-Employee Director's estate.

1

COMMITTEE means the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the
Board.

     DEFERRAL means the amount of Retainer or Meeting Fees deferred under
Section 5.1 or the number of Restricted Shares deferred into Deferral Shares
pursuant to Section 5.2 made in any particular Deferral Election.

     DEFERRAL ACCOUNT means a bookkeeping account in the name of a Non-Employee
Director who makes a Deferral Election under Article V of this Policy.

     DEFERRAL ELECTION means an election to defer pursuant to Article V, at such
time and in such manner as the Committee may prescribe.

     DEFERRAL SHARES means the number of Common Shares credited to a Deferral
Account as a result of the election to surrender Restricted Shares as provided
in Section 5.2.

     DISTRIBUTION DATE means the date on which a Non-Employee Director will
receive a distribution of his Deferral Account.

     DISABLED means a Non-Employee Director's inability to perform his or her
duties as a Board member, determined in the sole discretion of the Board.

     DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT means an amount equal to the dividend paid on one
Common Share, as declared by the Corporation from time to time.

     EFFECTIVE DATE shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.2 of this
Policy.

     ELECTION DATE means the date a Non-Employee Director elects to defer
payment of Restricted Shares pursuant to Section 5.2.

     EQUITY AWARD means an award granted to a Non-Employee Director under
Article IV of the Policy in the form of Stock Options or Restricted Shares,
which shall at all times be subject to the terms of the Plan.

     MEETING FEES shall mean fees payable to a Non-Employee Director in
connection with Board or committee meetings.

2

POLICY means this Laidlaw International, Inc. Non-Employee Director
Compensation Policy.

     REDEFERRAL ELECTION means an election made pursuant to Section 5.4 to
extend a Distribution Date.

     RETAINER means the annual cash retainer fee payable by the Corporation to a
Non-Employee Director for services as a director of the Corporation.

     STOCK OPTION means an option granted pursuant to the Plan.

                                   ARTICLE II
                                   ELIGIBILITY

     This Policy shall apply to each Non-Employee Director. A Non-Employee
Director's eligibility to participate in and receive awards pursuant to this
Policy is subject to the terms of the Policy and does not guarantee that
individual the right to continue participating in the Policy throughout the term
of the Policy.

                                   ARTICLE III
                                CASH COMPENSATION

3.1. RETAINER. A Retainer shall be payable in advance on the first business day
     of each calendar quarter to each Non-Employee Director who serves on the
     Board on such date. Payments shall be made in cash, unless deferred
     pursuant to Article V. The Retainer payable to each Non-Employee Director
     for services rendered as a member of the Board shall be at an annual rate
     of $47,500 (or in the case of the Chair, $150,000) plus the sum of the
     following, as applicable:

          (a)  For services rendered as the Chair of the Board's Audit
               Committee, $20,000;

          (b)  For services rendered as the Chair of the Board's Compensation
               Committee, $8,000;

3

(c)  For services rendered as the Chair of other Board committees,
               $5,000 per committee.

3.2. MEETING FEES. Meeting Fees shall be payable quarterly to each Non-Employee
     Director. Payments shall be in arrears on the first business day of each
     calendar quarter to Non-Employee Directors who participated in Board or
     committee meetings in the preceding calendar quarter. Payments shall be
     made in cash, unless deferred pursuant to Article V. Meeting Fees payable
     to each Non-Employee Director shall equal $1,500 per Board meeting (whether
     in person or telephonic) and $1,000 per committee meeting (whether in
     person or telephonic), except for Audit Committee meetings which shall be
     $1,500 per meeting (whether in person or telephonic). Meeting Fees shall be
     payable only for meetings held in accordance with the Corporation's By-Laws
     and, in the case of Committee meetings, to Committee members only. Whether
     any such meeting is telephonic or in person shall be determined by
     reference to the notice pursuant to which such meeting is called.

                                   ARTICLE IV
                               EQUITY COMPENSATION

4.1. EQUITY AWARDS. Equity Awards will be granted under the Plan annually
     beginning with the fiscal year of the Corporation ended August 31, 2003.
     Such Equity Awards shall be effective as of the date approved by the Board
     ("Annual Grant Date"), which approval shall occur within 90 days after the
     end of the fiscal year of the Corporation for which the grant is made. Each
     annual Equity Award shall be in the amounts set forth in paragraphs (a) and
     (b) below, as such paragraphs may be amended from time to time in
     accordance with Article IX.

(a)  Stock Options. For services rendered as a member of the Board, a grant of
     6,750 Stock Options; provided, however, that for services rendered as the
     Chair of the Board, a grant of 10,125 Stock Options;

4

(b)  Restricted Shares. For services rendered as a member of the Board, a grant
     of 3,375 Restricted Shares; provided, however, that for services rendered
     as the Chair of the Board, a grant of 5,063 Restricted Shares.

     A Non-Employee Director who begins to serve as a Non-Employee Director
     between Annual Grant Dates shall be granted Equity Awards under the Plan
     equal to 13,500 Stock Options and 6,750 Restricted Shares, multiplied by a
     fraction, the numerator of which is the number of whole or partial months
     between the date on which the Non-Employee Director became a director
     through the end of the Corporation's fiscal year in which the Non-Employee
     Director became a director, and the denominator of which is 12. Only whole
     Stock Options or Restricted Shares shall be granted; any fraction of a
     Stock Option or Restricted Share shall be rounded to the nearest whole
     number.

4.2. TERMS OF EQUITY AWARDS. The terms and conditions of each Equity Award shall
     be set forth in an Evidence of Award and consistent with the terms of the
     Plan.

                                    ARTICLE V
                                DEFERRAL PROGRAM

5.1. DEFERRAL OF CASH COMPENSATION. A Non-Employee Director may make an
     irrevocable Deferral Election to defer receipt of all or any whole
     percentage of any Retainer or Meeting Fees payable under Article III to a
     Deferral Account on such forms as the Committee may prescribe. Such
     Deferral Election must be made before the beginning of the calendar year in
     which such Retainer is earned or meetings giving rise to Meeting Fees
     occur. Notwithstanding the foregoing: (i) in the calendar year including
     the Effective Date, a Deferral Election may be made within 30 days of the
     Effective Date to defer cash compensation attributable to director services
     performed or meetings occurring after such Deferral Election, as determined
     by the Committee; and (ii) in the first year a Non-Employee Director
     becomes eligible to participate in the Policy, he or she may make a
     Deferral Election within 30 days of becoming eligible to participate in the
     Policy to defer cash compensation attributable to director services or
     meetings occurring after such Deferral Election, as determined by the
     Committee.

5

5.2. DEFERRAL OF RESTRICTED SHARE DISTRIBUTION. A Non-Employee Director may make
     an irrevocable Deferral Election no later than 12 months before the date
     Restricted Shares vest under Article IV to defer receipt of all or any
     whole percentage of such Restricted Shares at such time and on such forms
     as the Committee may prescribe. If a Non-Employee Director elects to defer
     payment with respect to the Restricted Shares, he or she will be deemed, as
     of the date of such election (the "Election Date"), to have surrendered the
     Restricted Shares and to have his or her Deferral Account (as described in
     Section 5.5) credited with an equal number of Common Shares (hereinafter,
     the "Deferral Shares"). As of the Election Date, the Non-Employee Director
     shall no longer have voting and dividend rights with respect to the
     Restricted Shares surrendered.

5.3. ELECTION OF DISTRIBUTION DATE. As part of any Deferral Election, the
     Non-Employee Director shall specify a Distribution Date. The Distribution
     Date selected by the Non-Employee Director shall not be earlier than the
     January 1 immediately following the first anniversary of the date on which
     the Deferral Election is made. The Distribution Dates specified in a
     Non-Employee Director's Deferral Elections may, but need not necessarily,
     be the same for all Deferrals made under this Policy. A Distribution Date
     selected by a Non-Employee Director is irrevocable, except as provided in
     Section 5.4.

5.4. REDEFERRAL ELECTION. A Non-Employee Director may make an irrevocable
     Redeferral Election to extend a Distribution Date at such time and on such
     forms as the Committee may prescribe; provided, however, that (i) such
     Redeferral Election must be made before July 1 of the calendar year
     preceding the calendar year in which the Distribution Date is to occur; and
     (ii) the new Distribution Date must be no earlier than the January 1
     immediately following the first anniversary of the date the Redeferral
     Election is made.

5.5. DEFERRAL ACCOUNTS. All amounts deferred pursuant to this Article V shall be
     allocated to a Deferral Account that includes separate subaccounts for each
     Deferral. Deferrals of cash compensation pursuant to Section 5.1 shall be
     credited to the Deferral Account as of the date coinciding with or next
     following the date on which the Non-Employee Director would have received
     the Deferral absent a Deferral Election. Deferral Shares shall be credited
     to the Deferral Account as of the Election Date, and shall be subject to a
     risk of forfeiture as set forth in Section 5.7 below. The Corporation, in
     the discretion

6

of the Committee, may maintain one or more grantor trusts to hold assets to
     be used for payment of Deferral Accounts; provided, however, that the
     assets of any such trust shall remain the assets of the Corporation subject
     to the claims of its general creditors. Any such trust shall be designed to
     comply with the material requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, or such
     other interpretive guidance issued under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
     as amended.

5.6. INVESTMENT OF DEFERRAL ACCOUNTS. Deferral Accounts holding deferred cash
     compensation pursuant to Section 5.1 shall be deemed to be invested in
     hypothetical Common Shares equal to a number of Common Shares determined by
     dividing the amount of cash compensation deferred under Section 5.1 by the
     Market Value per Share on the date such cash compensation otherwise would
     have been paid, with fractional Common Shares computed to two decimal
     places. Dividend Equivalents on each Deferral Share and each hypothetical
     Share shall be credited to the Non-Employee Director's Deferral Account and
     appropriate subaccount as of the crediting date coincident with or next
     following the dividend payment date, and in additional Common Share
     equivalents as though such dividend credits were a Deferral.

5.7. VESTING OF DEFERRAL ACCOUNTS. A Non-Employee Director shall be fully vested
     at all times in the balance of his or her Deferral Account that relates to
     cash compensation that is deferred pursuant to Section 5.1. Deferral Shares
     shall be subject to a risk of forfeiture to the same extent, under the same
     circumstances, and for the remainder of time that the underlying Restricted
     Shares would have been subject to a risk of forfeiture.

5.8. DISTRIBUTION OF DEFERRAL ACCOUNT. A Non-Employee Director's Deferral
     Account will be distributed to the Non-Employee Director or applicable
     Beneficiary within 30 days after the Distribution Date or, if earlier, the
     date on which the Non-Employee Director dies or becomes Disabled or there
     occurs a Change in Control. To the extent vested as provided in Section
     5.7, distributions of Deferral Accounts holding Deferral Shares shall be
     made in a lump sum payment of Common Shares equal to the number of Deferral
     Shares accumulated in the Deferral Account on the Distribution Date and
     distributions of Deferral Accounts holding deferred cash compensation
     pursuant to Section 5.1 shall be

7

made in a lump sum payment in cash. Dividend Equivalents held in the
     Deferral Accounts shall in all cases be paid on the Distribution Date in a
     lump sum in cash.

                                   ARTICLE VI
                              ADJUSTMENT PROVISIONS

     The adjustment provisions of the Plan shall apply to amounts held in the
Deferral Accounts. In the circumstances described in such adjustment provisions.

                                   ARTICLE VII
                           STOCK OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES

     Because the Corporation wishes to align the interests of Non-Employee
Directors and other shareholders of the Corporation, Non-Employee Directors will
be expected to maintain a substantial proprietary interest in the Corporation. A
proprietary interest (which shall include Common Shares in the name of such
Non-Employee Director or his or her Beneficiary held outside the Plan or
received pursuant to the Plan and those Common Share equivalents and Deferral
Shares held in his or her Deferral Account) will be considered substantial if,
on the fifth anniversary of the Effective Date, such proprietary interest has a
Market Value per Share equal to the annual rate of the Non-Employee Director
Retainer of $47,500 multiplied by five (5). The Corporation will consider a
Non-Employee Director's compliance with these stock ownership guidelines in its
annual evaluation of Board member performance.

                                  ARTICLE VIII
                                 ADMINISTRATION

8.1. ADMINISTRATION. This Policy shall be administered by the Committee.

8.2. COMMITTEE'S RIGHTS, DUTIES AND POWERS. The Committee shall have all the
     powers, authorities and resources available to it under its charter and the
     By-Laws of the Corporation.

8.3. EFFECT OF COMMITTEE DETERMINATIONS. The interpretation and construction of
     this Policy by the Committee, and any action taken hereunder, shall be
     binding and conclusive upon all parties; provided, however, that nothing
     herein shall prevent any Non-Employee Director or Beneficiary from
     enforcing his or her rights as a general

8

unsecured creditor hereunder.

8.4. INTERESTED COMMITTEE MEMBER. If a member of the Committee receives benefits
     pursuant to this Policy, the Committee member may not decide or determine
     any matter or question concerning distributions of any kind to be made to
     him or her or the nature or mode of settlement of his or her distribution,
     unless such decision or determination could be made by the Committee member
     under this Policy if the Committee member were not serving as a member of
     the Committee.

8.5. EXPENSES. All costs, charges and expenses reasonably incurred in the
     administration of this Policy will be paid by the Corporation.

8.6. REPORTS. Each Non-Employee Director shall receive at least annually a
     statement reflecting the amount of his or her Deferral Account.

                                   ARTICLE IX
                            AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

     The Board may amend this Policy from time to time or terminate this Policy
at any time. If the Plan is terminated, no further Equity Awards may be awarded
to Non-Employee Directors under this Policy. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no
action authorized by this Article shall adversely change the terms and
conditions of an outstanding Equity Award or a Non-Employee Director's Deferral
Account without the Non-Employee Director's consent.

                                    ARTICLE X
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

10.1. NON-ASSIGNABILITY OF BENEFITS. No Non-Employee Director nor any
     Beneficiary under this Policy shall have any power or right to transfer,
     assign, anticipate, hypothecate or otherwise encumber any part or all of
     the amounts payable hereunder, except by will or the laws of descent and
     distribution. Such amounts shall not be subject to seizure by any creditor
     of a Non-Employee Director or any Beneficiary hereunder, by a proceeding at
     law or in equity, nor transferable by operation of law in the event of the
     bankruptcy or insolvency of any Non-Employee Director or Beneficiary
     hereunder. Any such attempted assignment or transfer shall be void.

9

10.2. SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS. Amounts held in a Deferral Account shall not confer
     upon the holder thereof any rights as a shareholder of the Corporation.

10.3. UNSECURED GENERAL CREDITORS. Non-Employee Directors and their
     Beneficiaries shall have no legal or equitable rights, interest or claims
     in any property or assets of the Corporation. The obligation under this
     Policy to a Non-Employee Director or Beneficiary shall be merely an
     unfunded and unsecured promise by the Corporation to pay money to the
     Non-Employee Director or Beneficiary in the future. This Policy is intended
     to be unfunded for tax purposes or for purposes of any applicable provision
     of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.

10.4. EFFECT ON OTHER BENEFITS. Except as otherwise required by applicable law,
     this Policy and the benefits described herein are in addition to all other
     benefits which may be provided by the Corporation to the Non-Employee
     Director from time to time, and shall not reduce, replace or otherwise
     cause any reduction, in any manner, with regard to any of such other
     benefits.

10.5. NOTICES. Any notice, consent or demand required or permitted to be given
     under the provisions of this Policy by the Corporation or any Non-Employee
     Director or Beneficiary shall be in writing, and shall be signed by the
     person or entity giving or making the same. If such notice, consent or
     demand is mailed, it shall be sent by United States certified mail, postage
     prepaid, addressed to the principal office of the Corporation, or if to a
     Non-Employee Director or Beneficiary to such individual or entity's last
     known address as shown on the records of the Corporation. The date of such
     mailing shall be deemed the date of notice, consent or demand.

10.6. GOVERNING LAW. This Policy shall be governed by and construed in
     accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware.

10.7. COMPLIANCE WITH SECURITIES LAW. It is the Corporation's intent that this
     Policy comply with the provisions of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange
     Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder. To the
     extent that any provision of this Policy is found not to comply with
     Section 16 or such rules, such provision shall be null and void.

10

</EX-10.17>

<EX-21.1>
 5
 c09920exv21w1.txt
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

.
                                                                               .
                                                                               .

                                                                    Exhibit 21.1

EXHIBIT 21.1 SUBSIDIARY LIST

Laidlaw International, Inc.                                        Delaware
   Laidlaw Transportation, Inc.                                    Delaware
      Laidlaw Transit Holdings, Inc.                               Delaware
         Laidlaw Transit, Inc.                                     Delaware
            Allied Bus Sales, Inc.                                 Indiana
            Laidlaw Transit Management Company, Inc.               Pennsylvania
         Laidlaw Transit Services, Inc.                            Delaware
            SuTran, Inc.                                           South Dakota
            Van Tran of Tucson, Inc.(in process of
               dissolving)                                         Arizona
            Safe Ride Services, Inc.                               Arizona
      Laidlaw Medical Holdings, Inc.                               Delaware
      Laidlaw Transportation Holdings, Inc.                        Delaware
         Greyhound Lines, Inc.                                     Delaware
         [subsidiaries on separate page]
         Hotard Coaches, Inc.                                      Louisiana
            Gray Line of New Orleans, Inc. (50%)                   Louisiana
            Mississippi Coast Limousine, Inc.                      Mississippi
         Chatham Coach Lines, Inc.                                 Delaware
         Interstate Leasing, Inc.                                  Mississippi
      Concorde Adjusters, Inc.                                     Delaware
      Laidlaw Transportation Management, Inc.                      Ohio
      National Insurance and Indemnity Corporation                 Vermont
      Laidlaw USA, Inc.                                            New York
      Laidlaw Two, Inc.                                            Delaware
   Laidlaw International Finance Corporation (in process of
      dissolving)                                                  Ireland
   Laidlaw International Finance Corporation, Inc.                 Delaware
   American National Insurance Corporation                         Barbados
      First Transportation Indemnity Ltd.                          Barbados
   Greyhound Canada Transportation Corp.                           Ontario
      GCTC Leasing Ltd.                                            Alberta
      Gray Coach Travel Inc.                                       Ontario
      Greyhound Courier Express Ltd.                               British Columbia
      Penetang-Midland Coach Lines Limited                         Ontario
      3765105 Canada Inc.                                          Canada
   2026922 Ontario Ltd. (will be amalgamated w/Laidlaw
      Transit, Ltd as of 8/31/06                                   Ontario
   Laidlaw Transit Ltd.                                            Ontario
      Autobus Transco (1988) Inc.                                  Quebec
      Capital Bus Sales(1988) Limited                              Ontario
      Manhattan Equipment Supply Company Limited                   Ontario
   Scott's Hospitality Limited                                     England

[GREYHOUND LINES,INC.]
   Atlantic Greyhound Lines of Virginia, Inc.                      Virginia
   Gateway Ticketing Systems, Inc. (25%)                           Pennsylvania
   Greyhound de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (99.9%)                       Mexico
   LSX Delivery, L.L.C.                                            Delaware
   RCL Liquidation, L.L.C (1%)                                     Delaware
   Transportation Realty Income Partners L.P. (50%)                Delaware
   Union bus Station of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (40%)              Oklahoma
   Wilmington Union Bus Station Corporation (55.1%)                North Carolina
   GLI Holding Company                                             Delaware
      Americanos U.S.A., L.L.C. (2%)                               Delaware
      Carolina Coach Company                                       Virginia
         Wilmington Union Bus Station Corporation (3.4%)           North Carolina
      Seashore Transportation Company                              North Carolina
         Wilmington Union Bus Station Corporation (39.1%)          North Carolina
      GLI Corporate Risk Solutions, Inc.                           Delaware
      Greyhound Shore Services, L.L.C.                             Delaware
      Greyhound Transit Ltd. (20%)                                 Cayman Islands
      On Time Delivery Service, Inc.                               Minnesota
      RCL Liquidation, L.L.C. (99%)                                Delaware
      Texas, New Mexico & Oklahoma Coaches, Inc.                   Delaware
         T.N.M. & O Tours, Inc.                                    Texas
      Valley Garage Company                                        Texas
      Valley Transit Co., Inc.                                     Texas
      Vermont Transit Co., Inc.                                    Vermont
   Sistema Internacional de Transporte de Autobuses, Inc.          Delaware
      Americanos U.S.A., L.L.C. (98%)                              Delaware
      Autobuses Amigos, L.L.C. (51%)                               Delaware
      Crucero U.S.A., L.L.C.                                       Delaware
      Giros Americanos, Inc.                                       Delaware
      Gonzalez, Inc. d/b/a Golden State Transportation (51%)       California
      Autobuses Amigos, S.A. de C.V. (49%)                         Republic of Mexico

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 c09920exv23w1.txt
 CONSENT

Exhibit 23.1

            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-116076), Form S-8 (No. 333-114512) and Form S-4
(No. 333-112309) of Laidlaw International, Inc. of our report dated November 6,
2006 relating to the financial statements, management's assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Chicago, Illinois
November 6, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-24.1>
 7
 c09920exv24w1.txt
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Exhibit 24.1

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each of the undersigned officers and
directors of Laidlaw International, Inc., a Delaware corporation, hereby
constitutes and appoints Kevin E. Benson and Jeffrey W. Sanders, and each of
them, as his or her true and lawful attorney or attorneys-in-fact, with full
power of substitution and revocation, for each of the undersigned and in the
name, place and stead of each of the undersigned, to sign on behalf of each of
the undersigned an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August
31, 2006 pursuant to Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and to
sign any and all amendments to such Annual Report, and to file the same, with
all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, granting to said attorney or
attorneys-in-fact, and each of them, full power and authority to do so and
perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in and
about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned
might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorney or attorneys-in-fact or any of them or their substitute or substitutes
may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue thereof.

     This power of attorney may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of
which shall be deemed an original with respect to the person executing it.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have hereunto set their hands as of the
26th day of October, 2006.

- -------------------------------------   ----------------------------------------
Kevin E. Benson, President, Chief       Richard R. Randazzo, Director
Executive Officer and Director
(Principal Executive Officer)

- -------------------------------------   ----------------------------------------
Jeffrey W. Sanders, Vice President      Maria A. Sastre, Director
and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)

- -------------------------------------   ----------------------------------------
John F. Chlebowski, Director            Peter E. Stangl, Director

- -------------------------------------   ----------------------------------------
James H. Dickerson, Jr., Director       Carroll R. Wetzel, Jr.

- -------------------------------------
Lawrence M. Nagin, Director

by
   ----------------------------------
   Jeffrey W. Sanders, As
   Attorney-in-Fact

</EX-24.1>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 c09920exv31w1.txt
 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.1

            PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

     I, Kevin E. Benson, certify that:

     1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Laidlaw
International, Inc.;

     2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

     3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

     4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and we have:

     a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

     b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision,
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles;

     c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and

     d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

     5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

     a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and

     b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.

Date: November 9, 2006                  /s/ Kevin E. Benson
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Kevin E. Benson
                                        President and Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 c09920exv31w2.txt
 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.2

            PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER'S CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

     I, Jeffrey W. Sanders, certify that:

     1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Laidlaw
International, Inc.;

     2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

     3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

     4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and we have:

     a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

     b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision,
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles;

     c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and

     d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

     5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

     a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and

     b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.

Date: November 9, 2006                  /s/ Jeffrey W. Sanders
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Jeffrey W. Sanders
                                        Vice President and Chief Financial
                                        Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 c09920exv32w1.txt
 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.1

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Annual Report of Laidlaw International, Inc. (the
"Company") on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2006, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), each of
the undersigned officers of the Company certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section
1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
that, to such officer's knowledge:

     (1)  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
          15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

     (2)  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
          material respects, the financial condition and results of operations
          of the Company as of the dates and for the periods expressed in the
          Report.

Date: November 9, 2006

/s/ Kevin E. Benson
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Name: Kevin E. Benson
                                        Title: President and Chief Executive
                                               Officer

/s/ Jeffrey W. Sanders
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Name: Jeffrey W. Sanders
                                        Title: Vice President and Chief
                                               Financial Officer

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been
provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350 and is not being filed as a part of this report or on a separate
disclosure document

</EX-32.1>

