<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061213_10-K_edgar_data_353944_0000950134-06-023005_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1324073</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>271982</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>220236</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>537612</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>67</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-06-023005.hdr.sgml : 20061213
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061212212121
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-06-023005
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		13
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061213
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061212

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000353944
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MISCELLANEOUS MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES [3990]
		IRS NUMBER:				880173041
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NV
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-10684
		FILM NUMBER:		061272806

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		9295 PROTOTYPE DRIVE
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 10580
		CITY:			RENO
		STATE:			NV
		ZIP:			89510
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7754487777

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		9295 PROTOTYPE DRIVE
		CITY:			RENO
		STATE:			NV
		ZIP:			89511

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 GwYgbMK/oT8DSA+C2vBe+Kc3oGd1dQJbfZ6I5xh5DctoeEZhnX6G9zyWpMNCmOLr
 2hj9LrvK3OqxT7hxxdmJOQ==

 0000950134-06-023005.txt : 20061213

10-K
 1
 a25752e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

FORM 10-K 

United States Securities and Exchange Commission 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

For the Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2006 

OR 

For the transition period from                        to                       

Commission File Number 001-10684 

International Game Technology 

9295 Prototype Drive, Reno, Nevada 89521  
(Address of principal executive offices) 
Registrant s telephone number, including area code:  (775) 448-7777  
Registrant s website: www.IGT.com

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class  
Common Stock, Par Value $.00015625

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 
New York Stock Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if registrant is a well known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act).  Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2) of the Exchange Act: Large
accelerated filer     Accelerated filer     Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act). Yes     No    

The
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of March 31, 2006: $11,759,822,192

The number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant s classes of common stock, as of 
December 8, 2006:

335,322,243 shares of common stock at $.00015625 par value

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

Portions of our Proxy Statement relating to the 2007 annual shareholders meeting are incorporated 
by reference in Part III

INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY 
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page  

DEFINITIONS 

ii 

PART I 

2 

Item 1.  
       Business 

2 

Item 1A.  
       Risk Factors 

22 

Item 1B.  
       Unresolved Staff Comments 

24 

Item 2.  
       Properties 

24 

Item 3.  
       Legal Proceedings 

24 

Item 4.  
       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

24 

PART II 

25 

Item 5.  
       Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters 

25 

Item 6.  
       Selected Financial Data 

26 

Item 7.  
       Management s Discussion and Analysis 

27 

Item 7A.  
       Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

41 

Item 8.  
       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

42 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

42 

Consolidated Income Statements 

43 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

44 

Consolidated Cash Flows Statement 

45 

Consolidated Statements of Stockholder s Equity and Comprehensive Income 

47 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

48 

Item 9.  
       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants 

71 

Item 9A.   
       Controls and Procedures 

71 

Item 9B.  
       Other Information 

73 

Part III 

73 

Item 10.  
       Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

73 

Item 11.  
       Executive Compensation 

73 

Item 12.  
       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 

73 

Item 13.  
       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 

73 

Item 14.  
       Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

73 

Part IV 

74 

Item 15.  
       Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

74 

Power of Attorney Signatures 

76 

EXHIBIT 3.1    
     EXHIBIT 10.8    
     EXHIBIT 21    
     EXHIBIT 23    
     EXHIBIT 31.1    
     EXHIBIT 31.2    
     EXHIBIT 32.1    
     EXHIBIT 32.2    

i 

Table of Contents   

DEFINITIONS, abbreviations or acronyms as used in this Form 10-K

Abbreviation  
       
      Definition  

Acres

Acres Gaming Incorporated 

Anchor

Anchor Gaming 

APB

Accounting Principles Board 

ARS

Auction Rate Securities 

AVP    

Advanced Video Platform  

AWP

Amusement with Prize 

bps

basis points 

CAD$

Canadian dollars 

CCSC

Colorado Central Station Casino 

CDS

central determination system 

Commission

Nevada Gaming Commission 

Debentures

Senior Convertible Debentures due January 29, 2033 

EITF

Emerging Issues Task Force 

EPA

Environmental Protection Agency 

EPS

earnings per share 

ESPP  
FAS

Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
Financial Accounting Standard 

FASB

Financial Accounting Standards Board 

FIN

FASB Interpretation 

FSP

FASB Staff Position 

GAAP

generally accepted accounting principles 

GCB

State Gaming Control Board 

JV

Spin For Cash Joint Venture 

MDA

management s discussion   analysis 

MLP

multi level progressive 

MPS

multi player station 

NDT

The Nevada Department of Taxation 

NJ

New Jersey 

OES

IGT OnLine Entertainment Systems, Inc. and
the lottery systems business of VLC, Inc. collectively 

OSHA

Occupational Safety   Health Administration 

PGIC

Progressive Gaming International Corporation 

pp

percentage points 

R D

research and development 

Reg

Regulation 

RFID

radio frequency identification 

SAB

Staff Accounting Bulletin 

sb    

server based 

SEC

Securities and Exchange Commission 

Sega Sammy

Sega Sammy Holdings 

SFAS

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 

SG A

selling, general and administrative 

SIP

Stock Incentive Plan 

SMI

Shuffle Master, Inc. 

TITO

ticket-in/ticket-out 

TRO

temporary restraining order 

UK

United Kingdom 

US

United States 

VIE

variable interest entity 

VLT

video lottery terminal 

WW or WagerWorks

WagerWorks, Inc. 

WAP

wide area progressive 

*

not meaningful (in tables) 

ii 

Table of Contents   

Forward Looking Statements 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements which do not relate to historical or
current facts, but are  forward looking  statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to analyses and other information based on
forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements may
also relate to future events or trends, our future prospects and proposed new products, services,
developments or business strategies, among other things. These statements can generally (although
not always) be identified by their use of terms and phrases such as anticipate, believe, could,
would, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, predict, project, pursue, will, continue, and other
similar terms and phrases, as well as the use of the future tense.

Examples of forward looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, the
following categories of expectations about:

our ability to introduce new products and stimulate replacement demand 

the timing and expected success of new product introductions 

future gaming product developments 

developing or acquiring access to important intellectual property 

our access to new distribution channels 

our market share, competitive advantage, and leadership position 

the advantages offered to our customers by our products 

the current or future installed base in certain markets or
overall 

gaming expansion and new market opportunities 

future gross margins 

increasing growth or contributions 

regulatory developments 

critical accounting estimates 

tax exposure and tax rates 

available capital resources 

possible losses from off-balance sheet arrangements 

Although we believe as of today that the expectations reflected in any of our forward looking
statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied.
Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward looking
statements, are subject to change and to inherent known and unknown risks and uncertainties. See
Item 1A, Risk Factors, for a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties. You should
not assume later in the year or next year that the forward looking statements in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K are still valid. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update our
forward looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.

1 

Table of Contents   

PART I 

Item 1. Business 

GENERAL 

International Game Technology is a global company specializing in the design, manufacture,
and marketing of computerized gaming equipment, systems and services. Our vision is to be the
preeminent supplier of gaming products to the world. We strive to maintain a wide array of
entertainment inspired gaming product lines, targeting gaming markets in all legal jurisdictions
worldwide. We are committed to providing quality gaming products at competitive prices, designed
to increase the potential for improving operator profits by serving players better.

International Game Technology was incorporated in Nevada in December 1980 to acquire the gaming
licensee and operating entity, IGT, and to facilitate our initial public offering. Principally
serving the US gaming markets when founded, we expanded into jurisdictions outside the US in 1986.
In addition to our main US production facilities in Nevada, we manufacture gaming products in the
UK and through a third party manufacturer in Japan. We currently maintain sales offices in various
gaming jurisdictions around the world.

In addition to our 100% ownership of IGT, International Game Technology has the following directly
or indirectly wholly-owned operating subsidiaries:

Acres Gaming Incorporated 

I.G.T.   Argentina S.A. 

I.G.T. (Australia) Pty. Limited 

International Game Technology (NZ) Limited 

IGT Asia, Lda. 

IGT do Brasil LTDA. 

IGT   Canada Inc. 

IGT   Europe B.V. 

IGT   Iceland Ltd. 

IGT   Japan, K.K. 

IGT   Maine, Inc. 

IGT   Mexicana de Juegos, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

IGT   UK Holdings Limited (Barcrest) 

International Game Technology   Africa (Pty) Ltd. 

WagerWorks, Inc. 

Unless the context indicates otherwise, references to  International Game Technology,   IGT,   we, 
 our,  or  the Company  includes International Game Technology and our wholly owned subsidiaries
and their subsidiaries. The meanings of certain abbreviations or acronyms used throughout this
report are listed for your reference on page ii. Italicized text in this document with an attached
superscript trademark or copyright notation indicates trademarks of IGT or its licensors. For more
information about our trademark and copyright ownership information, please visit our website.

IGT s principal corporate executive offices are located at:

9295 Prototype Drive 
Reno, Nevada 89521 
Telephone: (775) IGT-7777 
Website:  www.IGT.com 

Through the Investor Relations link on our website, we make available free of charge, as soon as
reasonably practical after such information has been filed or furnished to the SEC, our annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to
those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act.
Our corporate governance guidelines and charters for our Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and
Corporate Governance Committees are also available on our website. This information will be mailed
in print form free of charge to any shareholder upon request.

2 

Table of Contents   

BUSINESS SEGMENTS 

We derive our revenues in two ways, either from the sale (product sales) or placement
(gaming operations) of our gaming products, services or intellectual properties. Operating
results reviewed by our chief decision maker encompass all revenue sources within each
geographical customer region. We currently view our business in two regional operating segments,
each incorporating all types of revenues.

Additionally, certain income and expenses related to company-wide initiatives are managed at the
corporate level and not allocated to an operating segment. Additional segment and financial
information is contained in BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS of our MDA and Note 18 of our Consolidated
Financial Statements and is incorporated herein by this reference.

PRODUCTS 

We sell or place a broad range of gaming equipment, as well as related parts, conversions,
licenses, systems and services.

Traditional casino-style slot machines determine the game play outcome at the machine, encompassing: 

classic physical reel slots 

video poker slots 

video reel slots 

Class III, a tribal distinction for a traditional casino-style slot machine 

Wide area progressive (WAP) jackpot systems link machines across several casinos
within a designated jurisdiction. 

Central determination system (CDS) machines are connected to a central server which
determines the game outcome, including: 

video lottery terminals (VLT) for government sponsored applications 

electronic or video bingo machines 

Class II, a tribal distinction for electronic bingo systems 

Amusement With Prize (AWP) games, popular in Europe, incorporate limited payouts with
complex features that allow players to exercise an element of skill and strategy. 

Pachisuro machines or pachislots distributed in Japan are a smaller, simpler variation
of American slots, featuring skill stop reels and low payouts. 

The IGT Advantage    Casino System is a suite of fully integrated casino management solutions for: 

machine accounting 

patron management 

cage and table accounting 

ticket in/ticket out 

bonusing (jackpots and promotions) 

table game automation 

Strategic Marketing Services offer consultation on a variety of casino promotion strategies. 

We supply our gaming products directly to the customer or through distributors in certain
jurisdictions. We also offer equipment contract financing for qualified customers and development
financing loans to select customers for new or expanding gaming facilities.

3 

Table of Contents   

REVENUE STREAMS 

Product Sales  revenues are generated from the sale of gaming machines, systems, parts,
conversion kits, licenses and royalties, equipment and services. Product sales comprised 50% of
consolidated revenues in 2006 and 2005, and 53% in 2004. As our gaming products become more
systems centric in nature, an increasing portion of our product sales is derived from non-machine
or non-box products, including systems installations, parts, game theme conversions, and royalties
or licensing fees.

Gaming operations  revenues are generated from providing customers with our proprietary gaming
products, services or intellectual properties under recurring revenue arrangements. This revenue
stream comprised 50% of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2006 and 2005, and 47% in 2004. See Note 1
of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding pricing arrangements
and revenue recognition.

Gaming Operations revenues and gross margin are influenced by a number of factors, including the
number and geographic mix of machines placed, play levels and variations in pricing arrangements.
Expenses include the cost of funding jackpot payments to winners and this cost is subject to
interest rate volatility. In monitoring the productive life cycle of our proprietary games, we
systematically replace units experiencing declining play levels with newer games.

We place games under recurring revenue arrangements in over 70 gaming jurisdictions worldwide. IGT
owned units below are reflected in our balance sheet as part of property, plant and equipment.
Casino operations units include traditional casino, Class III, Class II, and other higher yielding
gaming machines. Lease operations units include VLT and other lower yielding gaming machines.
Casino owned units are machines sold that also carry an ongoing recurring royalty fee.

4 

Table of Contents   

PRODUCT DEMAND  
Demand for our products is driven by a number of factors:

The replacement of older or obsolete machines   

The replacement cycle in all gaming jurisdictions represents a significant portion of sales
in any given year. It is driven primarily by competition in each market to provide players
with more entertaining and sophisticated games. We expect future machine replacement sales
will be driven by customer strategies to upgrade casino floors with newer games and
technologies that combine higher yields with cost savings, convenience, and other benefits.
The willingness and ability of operators to invest in new or additional machines is also a
factor. 

Casino expansion or new casino openings    

The construction of new casino properties generates product demand, and stimulates
replacement machines demand at neighboring casinos, as these casinos may upgrade in order
to remain competitive. 

New gaming jurisdictions   

Over the past decade, significant increases in the market installed base of gaming
machines were driven by growth in the number of jurisdictions with legalized gaming and
the increasing popularity of large theme-based casinos. 

Manufacturer s reputation and reliability   

Consistent delivery and support of quality products encourages operators to select certain
gaming equipment suppliers over others. 

STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS 

As part of our ongoing efforts to create shareholder value, we complement our internal
resources through strategic alliances and business acquisitions that:

offer opportunities to diversify our geographic reach 

expand our product lines and customer base 

leverage our technological and manufacturing infrastructure to increase our rates of return

Our more recent business acquisitions include: 

WagerWorks  

We acquired WagerWorks in August 2005 to capitalize on expanding remote gaming opportunities and
facilitate
the distribution of IGT game content across new channels and mediums such as the internet, mobile
devices,
and interactive television. WW provides internet gaming technology, content and services designed
to enable established consumer oriented companies to leverage their operating expertise and brand
equity online.
WW does not provide internet gaming services in jurisdictions where it is illegal to do so.

Acres  

We completed the acquisition of Acres, a software company specializing in the development of
gaming systems technology designed to assist casino operators in increasing patron loyalty, on
October 27, 2003. This business combination gave us access to the Acres suite of integrated
casino management systems products, enabling us to position IGT as a leading global provider of
casino gaming systems.

5 

Table of Contents   

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT 

The vision of IGT product development centers on serving players better by utilizing the
power of networked gaming, information technology, game design, and services to maximize the
potential for operator profitability. Our business model is built on the creation and delivery of
game content through integrated casino systems solutions to machine platforms. We pioneer
innovation by anticipating consumer needs, responding to customer feedback and marketing trends.

Our product development efforts are supported by a considerable emphasis and investment in research
and development of future technology, which we believe will enable IGT to maintain a leadership
position in the industry. We dedicate over 1,300 employees worldwide to product development in
various disciplines from hardware, software and firmware engineering to game design, video,
multimedia, graphics and sound. Our investment in R D totaled $188.5 million in fiscal 2006,
$138.4 million in fiscal 2005, and $129.3 million in fiscal 2004.

Our primary development facilities are located in Nevada and we have several design centers
strategically located worldwide allowing us to quickly respond to unique market needs and local
player preferences. IGT global design centers provide local community presence, customized
products, and regional production where beneficial or required.

Our Barcrest facility designs AWP games for the UK and continental Europe, configures UK
casino games, and partners with Barcrest USA to develop interactive top boxes for North
America casino games. 

Our Japan team designs IGT pachisuro games, in conjunction with our Sega Sammy manufacturing arrangement. 

Two teams in Australia design club and casino market products. 

IGT Labs is a Corporate sponsored strategic R D group established in 2005, dedicated to assisting
in our efforts to maintain a leading position in technologies critical to our future by developing
evolutionary next generation products and establishing strategic partnerships with key technology
providers. Significant initiatives focus on:

investigating software and technology solutions 

reducing product costs while increasing operator efficiencies and player appeal 

increasing IGT intellectual property values 

6 

Table of Contents   

Games 

We combine the elements of math, play mechanics, sound, art and technological advancements with our
entertainment license library and patented intellectual property with the goal of providing gaming
products with a high degree of player appeal. We continue to expand our game libraries,
emphasizing development of game content to address changing consumer preferences and other market
trends. We strive to develop games that incorporate exciting winning combinations, and appealing
graphics and sound. Additionally in fiscal 2006, we adopted development standards focused on
creating more consistent game play, graphics, and sound features in our games intended to expedite
time to market.

We actively develop new themes for video reel and video poker, as well as enhancing our classic
spinning reel products with popular multi-line multi-coin configurations. We make ongoing efforts
to upgrade and optimize our proprietary flagship theme games, such as  Wheel of Fortune    ,
 Megabucks    ,  Star Wars     and  The Price is Right    , with theme refreshers and innovative features
to enhance play. Our games are invented primarily by employee designers and artists. Although not
materially dependent on third party developers, we find they can provide added sources of creative
ideas and game content.

Using our Product Performance Testing system, we evaluate and forecast acceptance of new products
to quickly identify the more popular gaming concepts. A central computer monitors the performance
of games placed in 35 key casino locations that provide a representative sampling. This system
results in a quicker release of higher performing games.

Fiscal
2006 highlights 

We introduced 190 new games for traditional gaming environments in North America. We also released
260 unique versions of our games to meet the needs of non-traditional video lottery, CDS, Class II
and international markets. We remain the North America market leader in spinning reel and video
poker games. With fewer barriers to entry and the relative ease of creation, competition remains
intense in video games. We are competing vigorously in video game development and continue
designing innovative spinning reel and poker games.

We launched our first group play product offering community rounds where multiple players can
participate in the same bonus for added multi-player game action and big player attraction.  Wheel
of Fortune    Special Edition    Super Spin   is a linked progressive game combining the
popular theme with nine video slots surrounding a giant bonus wheel. Each player station features
an extra wide seat so players can sit with a friend. We plan to further expand game development
based on this group play concept.

We expanded on our winning MLP games, which provide a higher hit frequency on lower level
progressive jackpots. We recently released our newly designed 5-reel MLP,  Red Hot Jackpots    ,
in Nevada and Native American markets. This game allows players to buy-up to different bonus
levels, a feature designed to increase the average wager. We plan to continue our future MLP
offerings, adding WAP features and group play options.

We initiated development of our first interactive  multi-player station  series of gaming products.
This product, which is comprised of several individual terminals or stations connected to a
central control device, is available in numerous modular configurations based on operator
preferences. We expect that multi-player and electronic table games will become increasingly
important, with plans to introduce Baccarat and Roulette in the  MP Series   in fiscal 2007 and
additional game themes in the future.

Under arrangements to facilitate development of Walker Digital casino innovations, we initiated our
first product collaboration with  Guaranteed Play   ,  a creative new method of wagering game
play. Instead of one wager at a time, Guaranteed Play    patrons have the option of purchasing
several hands of poker or spins of slot play at a fixed price in advance. We plan to introduce
 Guaranteed Play   
 Poker during fiscal 2007. We anticipate future product offerings will integrate
 Guaranteed Play     through our  sb     network to give operators the ability to package slot
play with other promotional offerings.

Our Barcrest facility supports over 150 AWP game designs per year and new products are launched
every four to six weeks. Current year engineering projects focused on the development of video
game content and a new European PC based video cabinet set to launch in fiscal 2007.

In Japan, we developed and released two pachisuro games compliant with new Reg-5 requirements. The
Reg-5 models, not as popular as less restrictive Reg-4 units, will be required by the end of
September 2007, and we are targeting at least one new release per quarter in fiscal 2007.

7 

Table of Contents   

Networks 

Games and networked systems continue to converge, as markets increasingly require this linkage for
regulatory purposes, and operators rely more and more on systems to manage game performance and
player preferences.
As we develop and integrate gaming systems, adapting technologies to fit new markets and player
preferences, we recognize networks have the power to dramatically change the appearance and improve
the usefulness of gaming systems. Limited gaming networks currently include  IGT Advantage    
casino management systems,  EZ Pay     ticket systems, CDS, and WAP systems.

Our most recent focus is on providing operators with server based tools to more efficiently manage
their slot floors and deliver exciting new gaming experiences to the players. Four commercial field
trials of our server based system are currently underway in California, Nevada, Michigan and
Missouri. Over the next 18 to 24 months, we intend to continue refining and enhancing the core
technology, identifying customer needs, and pursuing development efforts critical to server based
game applications, including necessary regulatory approvals.

We continue to support and enhance our  IGT Advantage     Casino System, a suite of traditional
casino management software products providing operators with real-time information in the areas of
slot machine performance, patron management, table game reporting and analysis, along with cage and
credit data. This system suite features  EZ Pay     Ticketing, as well as direct player marketing
systems such as  Bonusing   TM   and  NexGen     interactive multi-media displays.    

We continue our product integration efforts with PGIC and SMI to create a comprehensive automated
table management system,  Table iD   TM   (formerly known as  Intelligent Table
System   TM  ) and extend the value of slot management systems. The first tier marketed as
 Table Manager   features upgraded player tracking and table game accounting functions and has been
installed in US casinos. The second tier marketed as  Chip Manager ,  includes RFID automated bet
recognition and its first casino installation was in October 2006. The third tier marketed as  Game
Manager   adds enhanced game tracking with complete game and player analysis and is planned for
commercial introduction in 2007.

Over the past three years, we have introduced IGT game content in several new video or lottery
markets by adapting our traditional casino games where the machine determines the outcome to CDS
games where the central server determines the outcome. Our CDS features include cross property
bingo draws, game software downloading, remote game configuration, full accounting and performance
reports, virtual private networks and TITO compatibility. With our extensive game library, we
anticipate continued CDS market penetration.

Platforms 

Platforms are the means by which players interact with the games, and we support several in order
to maximize our game distribution reach. The challenge in platform development is in determining
how to effectively use a wide range of technology to satisfy global markets with the right
features, cost points, and delivery dates. The ultimate goal is to ensure that our content can be
deployed through a number of different channels, including traditional gaming platforms, as well as
wireless networks, and the internet.

We strive to serve evolving gaming markets with the strength and flexibility of our distinct
platforms. Multi-line, multi-coin video games are currently among the most popular games on the
casino floor. In response to this trend, our products employ advanced technology to enhance
entertainment and communication features, while retaining many of the familiar and popular features
of legacy games.

Our  Advanced Video Platform     is designed to support the next generation of video games.
This platform provides improved graphic capabilities such as:

full screen live streaming videos 

animations with vivid colors 

enhanced stereo sound 

expanded storage capacity, allowing for complex bonus features 

To facilitate future server-based gaming applications, the  AVP     incorporates networking capable of
supporting Gaming Standards Association communication standards important for the integration of
open, casino wide networks and video capabilities to support a service window. Our next generation
TrimLine    cabinet, first sold with  AVP     machines in fiscal 2006, also provides enhanced
player ergonomics within a reduced machine footprint, enabling operators to better optimize
operator floor space.

8 

Table of Contents   

Our library of games continues to grow as  AVP     transitions to become our standard development
platform. We also continue to support traditional platforms including our:

Game King       video platform using the 80960 processor, offering a single or
multi-game format, a touch screen monitor, and interactive video slot games with animated
graphics and secondary bonusing features 

S2000       and  Reel Touch       80960 spinning reel platform, which combines one of
our broadest game libraries with upgraded processor boards and an enhanced sound package 

VLC 8800       platform which remains widely used in government sponsored markets,
with the ability to connect with most major North America video lottery control systems 

Blue Chip platform used in Australia and New Zealand markets 

Barcrest MPU5 AWP platform produced in the UK 

Pachisuro platform used in Japan 

Expanding Delivery Channels 

We are developing a wireless slot system for play on fully mobile computer tablets within a casino
property in response to Nevada legislation passed during fiscal 2006 to allow gaming on portable
hand held devices. Recently approved by the Nevada Gaming Commission, we anticipate a casino field
trial in fiscal 2007 and product release in fiscal 2008.

During fiscal 2006, we entered the UK interactive television market with the first two games,
 Elvis     and  Cashino   TM  , designed by Barcrest. We also launched seventeen new or updated
games on the WagerWorks internet casino platform including premium branded games generating
significantly more play than non-branded games. We plan to leverage our collective design
facilities worldwide in developing future internet game content, as well as networking technology
for remote game management and downloading. We will not, however, provide internet gaming services
in jurisdictions where they are not legal.

Intellectual Property 

Our patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights are significant assets.
We seek to protect our investment in R D and the unique, distinctive features of our products by
perfecting and maintaining our intellectual property rights. We obtain patent protection covering
many of our products and have a significant number of US and foreign patent applications pending.
Our portfolio contains a significant number of domestic and foreign patents related to a variety of
video and electronic gaming equipment and systems, including game designs, bonus and secondary game
features, and gaming device components.

Most of our products are marketed under trademarks and copyrights that provide product recognition
and promote widespread acceptance. Our products may also contain other content licensed from third
parties, such as trademarks, fictional characters, or storylines. We design, manufacture, produce,
operate, use, and/or otherwise have permission to exploit certain gaming machines utilizing
materials under license from third party licensors. We seek protection for our copyrights and
trademarks in the US and various foreign countries, where applicable.

We cannot ensure that:

others will not infringe upon or develop products in violation of our intellectual property rights 

pending applications for additional intellectual property rights will be granted 

Our ability to enforce and maintain patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property
rights is subject to general litigation risks. We are often presented with various defenses when
we seek to enforce our rights, including assertions that our intellectual property right being
asserted is invalid. In addition, our declaration of intellectual property rights often results in
the other party seeking to claim alleged intellectual property rights of its own against us. We
describe certain intellectual property litigation in Note 15 of our Consolidated Financial
Statements.

9 

Table of Contents   

MARKET REGIONS 

We market our gaming products in legalized gaming jurisdictions around the world. While our
most significant markets are in North America, we continue to pursue expanding international
markets. Opportunities, challenges and our successes vary across these jurisdictions. In the
following discussion, we describe various regional development expectations about market size,
timing, and government actions. There can be no assurance that these
expectations will be realized or
the extent to which IGT will benefit if they are realized.

North America 

As an industry leader, we have participated in the growth of North America gaming, beginning
in the early 1990 s with Midwest riverboats, through the spread of tribal casinos, and into
non-traditional venues such as racetracks (also known as racinos) and bingo parlors. We estimate
the market base of gaming machines installed has increased from 184,000 machines in 1991 to 836,000
machines in 2006. Our estimate of the market base of gaming machines installed in North America
below is based on internal data and information provided by various gaming agencies.

Gaming continues to grow in popularity as a leisure activity in North America. This growth
is encouraged by the development of newer, more innovative gaming devices, as well as governments
looking for new ways to support public operations. Over the past three years, we established a
commercial presence in most CDS and Class II markets where we had previously not operated because
of regulatory uncertainties. We expect to benefit from further expansion of legalized gambling
jurisdictions in fiscal 2007 and 2008. Legislative actions and voter referendums are providing new
market opportunities for IGT in:

Florida and Pennsylvania, from which we have firm orders expected to ship in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 

Washington and California CDS and Class II products 

California with pending tribal state compact negotiations 

Oklahoma with approvals for Instant Bingo games 

We continue monitoring gaming legislation under consideration in several other states, including
Kansas, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Texas. With our leadership position in
traditional and Class III gaming markets and growing presence in CDS and Class II markets, we are
well positioned to be a supplier of choice in any potential new markets.

10 

Table of Contents   

Sales and Service Regions 

Our North America sales and service offices are organized into four regions, to better respond to
customer needs.

US Western  

Representing approximately 44% of gaming devices in the North America market, the western region
spans 11 states, including:

Traditional casino markets in Nevada and Colorado 

Class II and class III markets in California, Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Oregon, Wyoming and New Mexico 

CDS markets in Washington 

VLT markets in Oregon, Montana and New Mexico 

Nevada continues to dominate this region as the largest and most established gaming market in the
world, with approximately 195,000 machines in over 250 casinos.

Las Vegas, Nevada s largest concentration of gaming, initiated a new wave of expansion
in 2005 with the opening of Wynn Las Vegas. This was followed by the Venetian expansion
project scheduled to open in 2007, the June 2006 ground breaking of the MGM City Center
complex and Wynn s Encore expansion expected in 2010. Boyd Gaming also announced
redevelopment plans for the Stardust property to be known as Echelon Place expected to
begin in 2007. 

The Las Vegas off-Strip or locals market experienced new growth in 2006 with the opening
of Boyd s South Coast and Station s Red Rock Station Casino, as well the Station s Green
Valley Ranch expansion. Other upcoming projects announced include property expansions in
North Las Vegas and a major facility in the Southern Hill s master planned community. 

Northern Nevada continued to show signs of expansion in 2006. In Reno, Station Casinos
is progressing with new property plans and the Atlantis Casino Resort
is considering adding properties as well as expanding their existing casino property. Additionally, the Reno
Peppermill Casino received zoning approval for a new property north of Sparks in Spanish
Springs. 

11 

Table of Contents   

California tribal properties continued installation of CDS Class II games in 2006, including a
significant expansion at the San Pablo Casino at Lytton Rancheria in the San Francisco Bay Area.
In 2006, the Governor of California announced the renegotiation of several tribal state compacts
now pending legislative approval. We anticipate approval of these compacts in early 2007 and it
may cause other tribes to consider compact renegotiations for facility expansions.

Washington continues with IGT game placements and we anticipate further market expansion in 2007
with seven properties that have applied to open new or expand existing facilities.

Oregon lottery continues with the installation of over 5,000 IGT machines under two contracts
awarded in 2006, which are expected to be completed during 2007.

US Central  

Spanning 18 states and approximately 28% of North America gaming devices, the central region encompasses:

riverboats in Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana, Mississippi and Missouri 

land based casinos in Michigan and Louisiana 

Class III casinos in Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, North
Dakota, South Dakota, and Wisconsin 

Class II and Class III markets in Oklahoma 

racinos in Arkansas 

VLT markets in Louisiana and South Dakota 

The largest concentration is in the riverboat jurisdictions and land based casinos with
approximately 112,000 machines in 98 locations. The Mississippi Gulf Coast lost 16,000 machines
destroyed by hurricane Katrina in August 2005. To date, 10 casinos have reopened with an aggregate
of 12,000 machines, while most other affected operators and new operators are expecting to build
new facilities over the next two years.

The Iowa Racing Commission granted four additional gaming licenses in May 2005. New openings include:

Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, North Dakota, South Dakota, and
Wisconsin comprise 126 tribal casino properties with approximately 74,000 Class III gaming devices,
with continuing opportunities for TITO conversions and legacy product replacements.

Oklahoma currently contains approximately 35,000 gaming machines. We initiated Class III game
installations in fiscal 2005 and our installed base grew from 1,000 to 5,400 units during fiscal
2006. Oklahoma also became the 19 th  state to join the IGT Native American Progressive
Systems links in 2006 with198 WAP and 66 stand-alone games currently installed.

Arkansas regulations for games of skill were approved by the Racing Commission in August 2006. We
expect to begin installing units by the end of calendar 2006 at:

Southland Park in West Memphis, opening their expanded facility with 800 units 

Oaklawn Park in Hot Springs with an initial 130 units and plans for a larger facility to open 2008 

Louisiana and South Dakota anticipate VLT replacements in the near term, while Nebraska, Kansas,
and Texas may generate additional opportunities in 2007 and beyond.

US Eastern  

Comprising approximately 17% of the North America installed base, the eastern region includes:

traditional casino markets in Atlantic City, New Jersey and cruise ships 

tribal Class III casinos in Connecticut, New York, and North Carolina 

centrally monitored facilities in Delaware, Maine, New York, Rhode Island, and West Virginia 

Class II CDS facilities in Alabama and Florida 

Pennsylvania when its program starts in fiscal 2007 

12 

Table of Contents   

Atlantic City remains the region s largest market with approximately 39,000 machines. This market
is becoming more competitive as casino ownership concentrates due to mergers and properties update
their floors to include more table games and non-gaming amenities. Pinnacle Entertainment recently
purchased The Sands, which closed in November 2006 to make way for a major resort casino.

Six new cruise ships were added in fiscal 2006 and nine more are expected to launch in 2007. Each
ship carries approximately 200 gaming machines.

New York and Connecticut casinos are in the midst of Class III expansions. New York s Seneca added
900 machines during fiscal 2006 to its Niagara Casino, is adding a new hotel to its Allegany
property and planning a new facility in Buffalo, New York. Foxwoods in Connecticut is expected to
open its 1,500 machine expansion in 2008.

New York, Rhode Island, Maine and West Virginia racino markets continue to grow.

In New York and Rhode Island, we have long-term revenue sharing arrangements in place
and continue achieving market share gains at existing facilities through the reallocation
process based on quality game performance. 

New York s addition of Tioga Downs and Yonkers in 2006 and the anticipated opening of
Vernon Downs in early fiscal 2007 will bring this market up to approximately 10,000
machines. The New York Aqueduct track opening is not expected until 2008. 

In Rhode Island, we expect the Lincoln Park 1,400 machine expansion to open in April
2007. 

In Maine, we expect the permanent Penn National facility to open in mid 2008. Our
machines were installed at the temporary facility in November 2005. 

In West Virginia, we anticipate Charles Town will complete its 800 to 1000 unit
expansion in early 2007. 

Alabama CDS charitable bingo markets grew in 2006 with expansions at two facilities.

Florida tribal properties continue replacing competitor products with IGT Class II CDS machines.
Ongoing Florida tribal compact negotiations will determine if Class III machines will be allowed in
this market. If Class III machines are allowed, we anticipate the Florida market could increase by
as many as 15,000 units and gradually replace Class II machines. With court decisions upholding
the Broward County voter referendum allowing gaming at racetracks, operators announced plans to
install 6,000 new games at four facilities beginning early in 2007.

Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board approved regulations and awarded the first five conditional
gaming licenses in September 2006 for the 61,000 slot machines in 14 racetrack venues statewide
legalized in July 2004. In December, the gaming board is expected to consider whether to
distribute seven additional licenses. With IGT shipments in October 2006 and the first casino
opening in November 2006, we anticipate approximately 40,000 games will be installed in this market
through fiscal 2010.

Canada  

Every Canadian province has some form of gaming, which we service with four sales and technical
support facilities in Canada. Casinos, racinos and public gaming in Canada make up 11% of the
North America market installed base. VLT programs are operated by government lottery corporations
in Alberta, Manitoba, Quebec, Saskatchewan, and the four Atlantic provinces. While Canadian
markets have stabilized, replacements and expansions provide steady machine, parts, and game
software sales.

13 

Table of Contents   

International 

Our International sales and service offices are located to better serve customer needs,
address specific regulatory environments, and pursue new and expanding market opportunities outside
of North America.

IGT s presence in international gaming markets commenced in 1986, and we continue to pursue growth
opportunities outside of North America. Our goal is to further capitalize on the design and
manufacturing experience in North America, while customizing products for unique local and
regulatory environments.
Our International headquarters, located in the Netherlands, oversees all international operations servicing:

casino markets in Asia, Europe, Latin America, Russia and South Africa 

club markets in Australia and New Zealand 

AWP markets in the UK and continental Europe 

pachisuro markets in Japan 

US military bases overseas 

The outlook for international market expansion continues to improve as support increases for
legalized casinos as a means of promoting tourism revenue. We anticipate increased financial
contributions from our international operations as these markets continue to grow in significance.

Europe  

Our Netherlands office opened in 1992 to service casino markets in continental Europe, the Middle
East and North Africa. Casinos and slot halls in these markets compete with non-casino
environments such as pubs and arcades. We anticipate moderate growth in Europe s installed unit
base. Replacement units in this market are increasingly driven by cashless solutions such as TITO.

In 2004, we opened a representative office in Moscow to explore market opportunities in Russia and
the Commonwealth of Independent States (former Soviet bloc countries). Commercial outlook for
fiscal 2007 in Russia is uncertain due to the impact of unfavorable legislative changes.

Latin America  

With offices in Argentina, Mexico, and Brazil, we market gaming equipment in several legalized
gaming jurisdictions in Latin America. Our office in Mexico was established in conjunction with
our entry into the CDS Video Bingo market beginning in fiscal 2005. Mexico s CDS market continues
to expand and we anticipate further CDS development in other Latin America jurisdictions.

14 

Table of Contents   

South Africa  

Our office in Midrand, Gauteng services the gaming markets located in Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa
and the Indian Ocean Islands. Casino gaming in South Africa is governed under its 1996 National
Gambling Act, allowing for the allocation of up to 40 casino licenses in nine provinces. We
introduced WAP games in South Africa during fiscal 2006.

Asia  

Our Macau office was established in fiscal 2005 to service the Asia region. Rapid growth is
projected in Macau and the surrounding region over the next few years, as countries such as the
Philippines, Singapore, Vietnam, and Cambodia consider and implement further gaming expansion and
development.

Australia and New Zealand  

Australia is one of the largest and most established markets for video gaming products outside of
North America. Our offices in Australia and New Zealand provide sales and customer service for
casino, club, and hotel gaming. Base or neuter machines manufactured in Reno are shipped to
Australia for completion with necessary game development, programming, testing, delivery and
installation. Although  harm minimization  continues to be an important political issue in this
region, most of the more restrictive gaming measures are fully implemented and our experience
indicates operator confidence is returning to the market.

United Kingdom  

We established full scale operations in Manchester, England with the acquisition of Barcrest
Limited in March 1998. Barcrest is a leading UK manufacturer of AWP games and top box products,
servicing markets in both the UK and continental Europe. We added facilities in the Midlands
region during fiscal 2002 for casino gaming implementations under the new UK Gambling Act.

Barcrest
markets are primarily replacement driven, dominated by pubs,
licensed betting offices, bingo halls and arcades
that demand regular releases of new machines. Our efforts in this market are built around three
design centers focusing on UK products, and one design center focused on products for continental
Europe. The UK market installed base is approximately 240,000 units and new games are launched every
four to six weeks.

Japan  

We have served the gaming market in Japan since 1990 with engineering, development, sales, and
administration from our head office in Tokyo and a logistics office in Nagano. Our
manufacturing arrangement with Sega Sammy, a Japanese pachislots maker, originated in 2004 is
helping to position our company as a more competitive and consistent performer in the pachisuro
marketplace. During 2006, Japan began the transition from Reg-4 games to the more restrictive
Reg-5 games. All Reg-4 pachisuro machines are required to be removed from the market by the
end of September 2007. The market installed base of pachisuro machines is estimated at over
1.8 million units with an estimated 50% average annual turnover.

Internet Gaming  

Our
internet customer relations are concentrated in the UK and Ireland.
 We do not provide internet gaming services in jurisdictions where they are not
legal.

COMPETITION 

The market for gaming machines and systems is highly competitive, constantly evolving and
subject to rapid technological change. New product development is a significant driver of
competition. Principal competitive factors include:

product functionality and features 

product architecture and technological innovations 

availability and quality of support 

ease and speed of product implementation 

vendor and product reputation 

knowledge of gaming industry practice 

customer acceptance and player preference

15 

Table of Contents   

We think we have a global competitive advantage attributable to:

broad alliances and long history with customers 

the breadth of our gaming products 

a dynamic and diverse library of innovative and strong performing games 

developing systems that enhance operator profitability 

an extensive collection of intellectual properties 

the highest levels of customer service and support 

the financial strength to aggressively invest in research and development 

an extensive, well established infrastructure of sales and manufacturing 

worldwide recognition and geographic diversity 

Our competitors include, but are not limited to, the following manufacturers that have developed
casino-style gaming products and are either authorized to sell products or are in the licensing
process in many US and foreign gaming jurisdictions:

Ainsworth Gaming Technology 

Aristocrat Leisure Limited 

Aruze, formerly known as Universal 

Bally Technologies, Inc. (formerly Alliance) 

Franco Gaming, Ltd., a division of Recreativos Franco 

Gauselmann Group (Atronics) 

Konami Co. Ltd. 

Lottomatica, (acquired GTech in 2006) 

Multimedia Gaming Inc. 

Novomatic Industries 

Progressive Gaming International Corporation 

Rocket Gaming Systems 

Scientific Games Corporation 

Shuffle Master Inc. 

Unidesa (part of the Cirsa Group) 

Video Game Technologies 

WMS Industries 

OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW 

Manufacturing and Suppliers  

In addition to our main production facility in Reno, Nevada, we manufacture AWP and UK casino
products in the UK and pachisuro machines through a third party manufacturer in Japan. AWP and
pachisuro machines provide lower game yields due to associated regulatory restrictions and
generally have shorter product life cycles. International casino and club gaming machines are
fabricated, whole or in kit form, at our Reno facility.

Our manufacturing operations primarily involve the assembly of electronic components, cables,
harnesses, video monitors and prefabricated parts purchased from outside sources. We also operate
facilities for cabinet manufacturing, silkscreen, and digital design. We have a broad base of
material suppliers and utilize multi-sourcing practices to ensure component availability.

Our Reno facility currently devotes approximately 889,000 square feet to product development,
manufacturing, warehousing, shipping and receiving. We enlarged our Reno facility with additional
space for offices, manufacturing, and a new data center in fiscal 2005. The consolidation of
various Las Vegas leased facilities and 830 employees into a new 37-acre central campus began in
fiscal 2004 and is estimated to be completed in 2007.

During fiscal 2006, our ISO 9001.2000 manufacturing industry certification was maintained for our
Nevada and UK facilities demonstrating our commitment to quality management. The ISO standards
represent an international consensus with respect to the design and use of practices intended to
ensure ongoing customer satisfaction with consistent delivery of products and services.

We generally carry a significant amount of inventory due to the broad range of products we
manufacture. Our production backlog totaled approximately $353.9 million at October 31, 2006 and
$442.1 million at October 31, 2005. We reasonably expect to fill this backlog within the next
fiscal year.

16 

Table of Contents   

Sales and Distribution  

Our products and services are sold to gaming operators and governmental entities that conduct
gaming operations. We market our products through our worldwide network of approximately 290 sales
associates. We use third party distributors and agents in certain markets under arrangements that
generally do not specify minimum purchases and provide for termination if certain performance
standards are not maintained.

Customer Service  

We consider customer service an important aspect of our overall marketing strategy and a key factor
differentiating us from our competitors. We provide product delivery and services for
installation, warranty, after-market technical support, new product training and support,
supplemental equipment and spare parts, product retrofit, game conversions, as well as WAP networks
and internet casino operations. We employ approximately 1,000 trained personnel in over 50
customer service centers worldwide.

IGT provides access to product information and a direct link for two-way communication between the
customer and IGT 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We also offer customers a variety of classes
through the IGT Training University to ensure their employees can successfully use our products to
their full potential. We provide 24-hour customer support through our website (www.IGT.com) and a
fully staffed Global Support Center telephone hotline, with access to a full range of field support
engineering resources to resolve technical issues.

Regulatory Compliance  

We dedicate over 90 people to regulatory compliance worldwide in order to ensure that IGT products
meet requirements in each gaming jurisdiction and that we obtain the necessary approvals and
licenses. IGT holds over 340 gaming licenses in over 290 licensed jurisdictions worldwide, as well
as 100 or more international jurisdictions not requiring licensure. We submitted almost 47,000
products for regulatory approval during fiscal 2006.

Employees  

As of September 30, 2006, we employed approximately 5,200 individuals worldwide, including 4,200 in
North America and 1,000 internationally. We believe we have favorable relationships with our
employees. IGT is committed to providing employees a stable and rewarding work environment, the
opportunity to grow based on their talents, and the opportunity to share in the success of the
company, which they make possible.

GOVERNMENT GAMING REGULATION 

General 

We operate in most legal casino gaming jurisdictions worldwide, as well as in a significant number
of legalized lottery jurisdictions. The manufacture and distribution of gaming equipment and
related software and the operation of casinos is subject to regulation in these jurisdictions by
various regulators at all levels from city and tribal officials along with federal regulatory
agencies, with the majority of oversight being provided by each individual state s gaming
regulators. While the regulatory requirements vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, the majority
of these jurisdictions require:

licenses and/or permits 

findings of suitability 

documentation of qualification including evidence of financial stability 

other required approvals for companies that manufacture and distribute gaming equipment 

individual suitability of officers, directors, major stockholders and key employees 

Various gaming regulatory agencies have issued licenses allowing us to manufacture and distribute
our gaming machines and systems. IGT and our key personnel have obtained or applied for all
government licenses, permits, registrations, findings of suitability and approvals necessary to
maintain compliance with all regulatory agency requirements. Many of the regulations at each level
are similar or overlapping; however, we are required to satisfy all conditions individually for
each jurisdiction. Laws of the various gaming regulatory agencies serve to protect the public and
ensure that gaming related activity is conducted honestly, competitively, and free of corruption.
In the jurisdictions where we operate gaming machines, regulatory oversight additionally ensures
that the local authorities receive the appropriate amount of tax revenues. As such, our
operations  financial systems and reporting functions must demonstrate high levels of detail and
integrity.

In some jurisdictions, regulators not only govern the activities that take place in their
particular jurisdiction, but they also oversee activities that occur in other jurisdictions to
ensure that the company is in compliance with local standards on a worldwide basis. As a Nevada
corporation, we are held responsible by our state regulatory authorities to maintain Nevada
standards for all of our operations worldwide. For this reason, in a number of
jurisdictions, we employ community staff members and legal resources familiar with local customs
who regularly report to our compliance department to assist in keeping us compliant with applicable
regulations worldwide.

17 

Table of Contents   

The nature of the industry and our worldwide operations make this process very time consuming and
requires extensive resources. Through this process, we seek to assure both regulators and
investors that all our operations maintain the highest levels of integrity and avoid any appearance
of improprieties. We have never been denied a gaming related license, nor have our licenses ever
been suspended or revoked.

Federal Registration 

The Gambling Devices Act of 1962 makes it unlawful for a person to manufacture, transport, or
receive gaming machines, gaming devices or components across interstate lines unless that person
has first registered with the Attorney General of the US Department of Justice. In addition,
gambling device identification and record keeping requirements are imposed by this act. Violation
of this act may result in seizure and forfeiture of the equipment, as
well as other penalties. Entities involved in the manufacture and transportation of gaming devices
are required to register annually. We are confident that we have complied with the registration
requirements of this act.

Responsible Gaming 

Social responsibility is a cornerstone of IGT s business philosophy. Our Corporate Responsible
Gaming Program continues to gain positive recognition in the US and internationally. New gaming
jurisdictions are becoming more cognizant of the importance of social protections as a critical
part of any new or expanding gaming initiatives. We dedicate a full time position to the
implementation of a formal responsible gaming program that strives to provide protection for
vulnerable populations while helping to ensure the future of our business.

We partner with both gaming stakeholders and the community to raise awareness of problem gambling,
promote education and research, as well as provide funding for treatment. IGT works closely with
public policy makers to formulate sound responsible gaming policies. It is our goal to provide the
best gaming entertainment in the world for our customers while endeavoring to create the most
effective safety net possible for those individuals who may be adversely affected.

Nevada 

The manufacture, sale and distribution of gaming devices in Nevada or for use outside Nevada are
subject to extensive state and local laws, regulations and ordinances of the Nevada Gaming
Commission, the State Gaming Control Board, and various county and municipal regulatory authorities
(collectively referred to as the Nevada gaming authorities). These laws, regulations and
ordinances primarily cover the responsibility, financial stability and character of gaming
equipment manufacturers, distributors and operators, as well as persons financially interested or
involved in gaming operations.

The manufacture, distribution and operation of gaming devices require separate licenses. The laws,
regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada gaming authorities seek to:

(i) 
       
     prevent unsavory or unsuitable persons from having a direct or indirect involvement with
gaming at any time or in any capacity 

(ii) 
       
     establish and maintain responsible accounting practices and procedures 

(iii) 
       
     maintain effective control over the financial practices of licensees, including
establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and the safeguarding of assets
and revenues, providing reliable record keeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports
with the Nevada gaming authorities 

(iv) 
       
     prevent cheating and fraudulent practices, and 

(v) 
       
     provide a source of state and local revenues through taxation and licensing fees. 

Changes in these laws, regulations, procedures, and judicial or regulatory interpretations could
have an adverse effect on our gaming operations.

Our subsidiaries conducting the manufacture, sale, and distribution of gaming devices in Nevada or
for use outside Nevada, as well as the operation of slot machine routes and other gaming activities
in Nevada, are each required to be licensed by the Nevada gaming authorities. Our licenses must be
renewed periodically and the Nevada gaming authorities have broad discretion regarding such
renewals. Licenses are not transferable. Each type of machine we sell in Nevada must first be
approved by the Commission and may require subsequent machine modification. Our gaming
subsidiaries licensed in Nevada must also report substantially all loans, leases, and sales of
securities and similar financing transactions of a material nature to the GCB and/or have them
approved by the Commission. We believe we have obtained all required licenses and/or approvals
necessary to carry on our business in Nevada.

18 

Table of Contents   

The Company is registered with the Commission as a publicly traded corporation and is required
periodically to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Commission and to furnish
any other information that the Commission may require. No person may become a stockholder of or
receive any percentage of profits from our licensed gaming subsidiaries, without first obtaining
licenses and approvals from the Nevada gaming authorities.

Our officers, directors and key employees who are actively engaged in the administration or
supervision of gaming and/or directly involved in gaming activities of our licensed gaming
subsidiaries may be required to file applications with the Nevada gaming authorities and may be
required to be licensed or found suitable by them. Officers, directors, and certain key employees
of our licensed gaming subsidiaries must file applications with the Nevada gaming authorities and
may be required by them to be licensed or found suitable.

In addition, anyone having a material relationship or involvement with us or any of our licensed
gaming subsidiaries may be required to be found suitable or licensed and to pay to the GCB all of
its investigation costs and fees. The Commission may deny an application for licensure or finding
of suitability for any cause deemed reasonable. A finding of suitability is comparable to
licensing and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a
thorough background investigation. We must report changes in licensed positions to the Commission.
The Commission may disapprove any change in position by one of our officers, directors, or key
employees, or require us to suspend or dismiss officers, directors or other key employees and sever
relationships with other persons who refuse to file appropriate applications, or whom the Nevada
gaming authorities find unsuitable to act in such capacities. Determinations of suitability or of
questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in Nevada.

We are required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Commission. If the
Commission determines that we are in violation of any gaming laws, our gaming licenses can be
limited, conditioned, suspended or revoked. In addition, the Company, our licensed gaming
subsidiaries and any persons involved may be subject to substantial fines for each separate
violation of the gaming laws at the discretion of the Commission. The Commission also has the
power to appoint a supervisor to operate our gaming properties and, under certain circumstances,
earnings generated during the supervisor s appointment could be forfeited to the State of Nevada.
The limitation, conditioning or suspension of our gaming licenses or the appointment of a
supervisor could (and revocation of our gaming licenses would) materially and adversely affect our
gaming operations.

The Commission may require any beneficial holder of our voting securities, regardless of the number
of shares owned, to file an application, be investigated, and be found suitable, in which case the
applicant would be required to pay the costs and fees of the GCB investigation. If the beneficial
holder of voting securities who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership, or trust, it
must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of beneficial owners. Any
person who acquires more than 5% of the Company s voting securities must report this to the
Commission. Any person who becomes a beneficial owner of more than 10% of our voting securities
must apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Chairman of the GCB mails the
written notice requiring this finding of suitability.

Under certain circumstances, an institutional investor, as this term is defined in the Nevada
gaming regulations, acquiring more than 10% but not more than 15% of our voting securities, may
apply to the Commission for a waiver of these finding of suitability requirements, provided the
institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. An institutional
investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting
securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of its business.

Our voting securities must not be acquired for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly,

(i) 
       
     the election of a majority of our board of directors, 

(ii) 
       
     any change in our corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations, or 

(iii) 
       
     any other action the Commission finds to be inconsistent with holding our voting
securities for investment purposes only. 

The Commission considers voting on all matters voted on by stockholders and the making of financial
and other informational inquiries of the type normally made by securities analysts, to be
consistent with investment intent.

The Commission has the power to investigate any person who holds our debt or equity securities.
The Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board, with jurisdiction over gaming in the Las Vegas
area, may similarly require a finding of suitability of a security holder. The applicant
stockholder is required to pay all costs of such investigation. Our bylaws provide for us to pay
these costs that are related to our officers, directors or employees.

19 

Table of Contents   

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days
after being ordered to do so by the Commission or the Chairman of the GCB may be found unsuitable.
The same restrictions apply to a record owner who fails to identify the beneficial owner, if
requested to do so. Any stockholder found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any
beneficial ownership of our common stock beyond such period of time as may be prescribed by the
Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense.

We are subject to disciplinary action and possible loss of our approvals if, after we receive
notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us or
any of our licensed gaming subsidiaries, we:

(i) 
       
     pay that person any dividend or interest upon our voting securities, 

(ii) 
       
     allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through
securities held by that person, 

(iii) 
       
     give remuneration in any form to that person, for services rendered or otherwise, or 

(iv) 
       
     fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish his
voting securities for cash at fair market value. 

Additionally, the Clark County authorities have taken the position that they have the authority to
approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming
licensee.

The Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of our debt securities to file an
application, be investigated and be found suitable to own any of our debt securities. If the
Commission determines that a person is unsuitable to own any of these securities, then pursuant to
the Nevada gaming laws, we can be sanctioned, including the loss of our approvals, if without prior
Commission approval, we:

(i) 
       
     pay to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest, or any distribution whatsoever; 

(ii) 
       
     recognize any voting right by such unsuitable person in connection with such securities; 

(iii) 
       
     pay the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or 

(iv) 
       
     make any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion,
exchange, liquidation, or similar transaction. 

We are required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada, subject to examination by the
Commission at any time. If any of our securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee,
the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the
Commission. A failure to make such disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder
unsuitable. We are also required to render maximum assistance in determining the identity of the
beneficial owner. The Commission has the power at any time to require our stock certificates to
bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to the Nevada gaming laws and the
regulations of the Commission. To date, the Commission has not imposed this requirement on us.

We may not make a public offering of our securities without the prior approval of the Commission if
the securities or their proceeds are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming
facilities in Nevada, or retire or extend obligations incurred for such purposes. Such approval,
if given, does not constitute a finding, recommendation, or approval by the Commission or the GCB
as to the accuracy or adequacy of the prospectus or the investment merits of the securities. Any
representation to the contrary is unlawful.

In July 2005, the Commission granted us prior approval to make public offerings for a period of two
years, subject to certain conditions (referred to as a shelf approval). The chairman of the GCB
may rescind the shelf approval for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an
interlocutory stop order. The shelf approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation, or
approval by the Commission or the GCB as to the accuracy or adequacy of the prospectus or the
investment merits of the securities offered. Any representation to the contrary is unlawful.

Changes in control of the Company through merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets or stock,
management or consulting agreements or any form of takeover cannot occur without the prior
investigation of the GCB and approval of the Commission. Entities seeking to acquire control of us
must satisfy the GCB and the Commission in a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming
control. The Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other
persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control,
to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction.

20 

Table of Contents   

The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management,
repurchases of voting securities and other corporate defense tactics that affect Nevada gaming
licensees, and publicly traded corporations that are affiliated with those operations, may be
injurious to stable and productive corporate gaming. The Commission has established a regulatory
scheme to guard against the potentially adverse effects of these business practices upon Nevada s
gaming industry and to further Nevada s policy to:

(i) 
       
     assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and their affiliates 

(ii) 
       
     preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and 

(iii) 
       
     promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs. 

Approvals are, in certain circumstances, required from the Commission before we can make
exceptional repurchases of voting securities above their current market price and before a
corporate acquisition opposed by management, can be consummated. Nevada s gaming laws and
regulations also require prior approval by the Commission if we were to adopt a plan of
recapitalization proposed by our board of directors in opposition to a tender offer made directly
to our stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control of us.

License fees and taxes are imposed by the Nevada gaming authorities and are payable either
quarterly or annually. The fees and taxes are computed in various ways depending on the type of
activity involved by our subsidiaries and the cities and counties where our subsidiaries conduct
operations. Annual fees are payable to the GCB to renew our licenses as a manufacturer,
distributor, and operator of a slot machine route. Nevada law also requires persons providing
gaming machines in Nevada to casino customers on a revenue participation basis to pay their
proportionate share of the taxes imposed on gaming revenues generated by the participation gaming
machines.

Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered, or is
under common control with such persons (collectively referred to as licensees), and who proposes to
participate in the conduct of gaming operations outside of Nevada is required to deposit with the
GCB, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of
investigation by the GCB of the licensee s participation in foreign gaming. This revolving fund is
subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the Commission. As a licensee, we are
required to comply with certain reporting requirements imposed by the Nevada laws. We are also
subject to disciplinary action by the Commission if we knowingly violate any laws of the foreign
jurisdiction pertaining to our foreign gaming operation, fail to conduct our foreign gaming
operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming
operations, engage in activities that are harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect
gaming taxes and fees, or employ a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or
finding of suitability in Nevada on the grounds of personal unsuitability.

Native America 

Federal law, tribal-state compacts, and tribal gaming regulations govern gaming on Native American
lands. The Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988 provides the framework for federal and state
control over all gaming on Native American lands and is administered by the National Indian Gaming
Commission and the Secretary of the US Department of the Interior. The commission has authority to
issue regulations governing tribal gaming activities, approve tribal ordinances for regulating
gaming, approve management agreements for gaming facilities, conduct investigations and monitor
tribal gaming generally. The act is subject to interpretation by the commission and may be subject
to judicial and legislative clarification or amendment.

The act requires that the tribe and the state enter into a written agreement, a tribal-state
compact, which governs the terms of the gaming activities. Tribal-state compacts vary from
state-to-state and in many cases require equipment manufacturers and/or distributors to meet
ongoing registration and licensing requirements. In addition, many Native American tribes, to
regulate gaming-related activity on Indian lands, have established tribal gaming commissions.
Indian tribes are sovereign in their own government systems, with primary regulatory authority over
gaming on land within the tribes  jurisdictions. IGT distributes gaming equipment to Native
American tribes that have negotiated compacts with their states and/or have received federal
approval where required.

International 

Certain foreign countries permit the importation, sale and operation of gaming equipment in casino
and non-casino environments. Some countries prohibit or restrict the payout feature of the
traditional slot machine or limit the operation and the number of slot machines to a controlled
number of casinos or casino-like locations. Each gaming machine must comply with the individual
country s regulations. Certain jurisdictions require the licensing of gaming machine operators and
manufacturers.

We manufacture and supply gaming equipment to various international markets including Africa, Asia,
Australia, Europe, Japan, Latin America, New Zealand, and the UK. We have obtained the required
licenses to manufacture and distribute our products in the various foreign jurisdictions where we
do business.

21 

Table of Contents   

Internet Gaming 

With the acquisition of WagerWorks in August 2005, we provide online gaming content and services
for certain jurisdictions. We provide online casino software and services from Alderney in the
British Channel Islands, which has a substantial regulatory structure for internet based wagering
under the Alderney Gaming Control Commission. Recognizing the legal uncertainties and recent
legislative initiatives regarding online gaming in the US, we do not accept wagers from US
citizens. We have extensive operational control structures for regulatory compliance encompassing
software and game development, computer operations, consumer cash handling, and identity checking.

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

We urge you to carefully review the following discussion of the specific risks and
uncertainties that affect our business. These include, but are not limited to, the following:

Our ability to operate in our existing markets or expand into new jurisdictions could be
adversely affected by changing regulations or problems with obtaining needed licenses or
approvals.  

We operate only in jurisdictions where gaming is legal. The gaming industry is subject to
extensive governmental regulation by US federal, state and local governments, as well as tribal
officials or organizations and foreign governments. While the regulatory requirements vary by
jurisdiction, most require:

licenses and/or permits 

findings of suitability 

documentation of qualifications, including evidence of financial stability 

other required approvals for companies who manufacture or distribute gaming equipment and services 

individual suitability of officers, directors, major stockholders and key employees 

Any delays in obtaining regulatory approvals needed for expansion within existing markets or into
new jurisdictions can negatively affect our opportunities for growth. Further, changes in existing
gaming regulations may hinder or prevent us from continuing to operate in those jurisdictions where
we currently do business, which would harm our operating results. In particular, the enactment of
unfavorable legislation or government efforts affecting or directed at manufacturers or gaming
operators, such as referendums to increase gaming taxes or requirements to use local distributors,
can have a negative impact on our operations.

Slow growth in the number of new casinos or the rate of replacement of existing gaming machines
could limit or reduce our future profits.  

Demand for our products is driven substantially by the replacement of existing gaming machines, the
establishment of new gaming jurisdictions, and the addition of new casinos or expansion of existing
casinos within existing gaming jurisdictions. The establishment or expansion of gaming in any
jurisdiction typically requires a public referendum or other legislative action. As a result,
gaming continues to be the subject of public debate, and there are numerous active organizations
that oppose gaming. Opposition to gaming could result in restrictions on or even prohibitions of
gaming operations in any jurisdiction. In addition, the rate of growth in the North American
marketplace has diminished. A continued reduction in growth or in the number of gaming
jurisdictions or delays in the opening of new or expanded casinos could reduce the demand for our
products.

Demand for our products could be adversely affected by changes in player and operator
preferences.  

As a supplier of gaming machines, we must offer themes and products that appeal to gaming operators
and players. If we are unable to anticipate or timely react to any significant changes in player
preferences, such as a negative change in the trend of acceptance of our newest systems innovations
or jackpot fatigue (declining play levels on smaller jackpots), the demand for our gaming products
could decline. Further, our products could suffer a loss of floor space to table games and
operators may reduce revenue sharing arrangements, each of which would harm our sales and financial
results. In addition, general changes in consumer behavior, such as reduced travel activity and
redirection of entertainment dollars to other venues, could result in reduced demand for our
products.

Our business is vulnerable to changing economic conditions.  

Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions including recession, economic slowdown, or
higher fuel or other transportation costs, may reduce disposable income of casino patrons or result
in fewer patrons visiting casinos. Such a decline in the relative health of the gaming industry
would likely result in a decline in the amount of resources our customers have to purchase our
products and services. This may also result in reduced play levels, which could cause our cash
flows and revenues from revenue sharing products to decline. Our operating results may be
negatively impacted by a decrease in interest rates causing an increase in jackpot expense and a
reduction of investment income.

22 

Table of Contents   

Our success in the competitive gaming industry depends in large part on our ability to develop
and manage frequent introductions of innovative products.  

The gaming industry is intensely competitive, and many of our competitors have substantial
resources and specialize in the development and marketing of their products. Because the gaming
industry is characterized by dynamic customer demand and rapid technological advances, we must
continually introduce and successfully market new themes and technologies in order to remain
competitive and effectively stimulate customer demand. Our customers will accept a new product
only if it is likely to increase operator profits more than competitors  products. There is no
guarantee that our new products will attain this market acceptance or that our competitors will not
more effectively anticipate or respond to changing customer preferences. In addition, any delays
by us in introducing new games on schedule could negatively impact our operating results by
providing an opportunity for our competitors to introduce new products and gain market share ahead
of us.

Failure to attract, retain and motivate key employees may adversely affect our ability to
compete.  

Our success depends largely on recruiting and retaining talented employees. The market for
qualified executives and highly skilled, technical workers is intensely competitive. The loss of
key employees or an inability to hire a sufficient number of technical staff could limit our
ability to develop successful products and cause delays in getting new products to market.

We may be unable to protect our intellectual property.  

A
significant portion of our revenues is generated from products using certain intellectual
property rights, and our operating results would be negatively impacted if we were unsuccessful in
protecting these rights from infringement. In addition, some of our most popular games and
features are based on trademarks, patents and other intellectual property licensed from third
parties. The continued success of these games may depend upon our ability to retain or expand
these licenses with reasonable terms. We also depend on trade secret law to protect certain
proprietary knowledge and have entered into confidentiality
agreements with those of our employees who have
access to this information. However, there can be no guarantees that our employees will not breach
these agreements, and if these agreements are breached it is unlikely that the remedies available
to us will be sufficient to compensate us for the damages suffered.

We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement or invalidity.  

Periodically we receive notification from others claiming that we are infringing their patent,
trademark or other intellectual property rights. Regardless of their merit, such claims may cause
us to incur significant costs. Responding to these claims could also require us to stop selling or
to redesign our products, to pay significant amounts in damages or enter into agreements to pay
significant licensing fees or royalties. Additionally, if any of these claims prove successful, it
could limit our ability to bring new products to market in the future.

Our gaming machines and online operations may experience losses due to fraudulent
activities.  

We incorporate security features into the design of our gaming machines and other systems,
including those responsible for our online operations, designed to prevent us and our patrons from
being defrauded. However, there can be no guarantee that such security features will continue to
be effective in the future. If our security systems fail to prevent fraud, our operating results
could be adversely affected. Additionally, if third parties breach our security systems and
defraud our patrons, the public may lose confidence in our gaming machines and operations.

Our outstanding debt obligations subject us to additional risks.  

Our Debentures are currently convertible through mid January 2007. Due to the net settlement
feature of our new Debentures, our liquidity could be impacted if a significant number of
Debentures are converted. Additionally, our Senior Credit Facility subjects us to a number of
financial covenants which could result in an event of default if not complied with. The Senior
Credit Facility also includes restrictions that may limit our flexibility in planning for, or
reacting to, changes in our business and the industry.

The risks related to operations outside of traditional US law could negatively affect our
results.  

We operate in many countries outside of the US and tribal jurisdictions with sovereign immunity
which subjects us to certain inherent risks including:

political or economic instability in international markets 

additional costs of compliance with international laws 

tariffs and other trade barriers 

fluctuations in foreign exchange rates 

adverse changes in the creditworthiness of parties with whom we have significant
receivables or forward currency exchange contracts 

23 

Table of Contents   

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 

None

Item 2. Properties 

We expect our current properties will be adequate for our near-term business needs.

Corporate Headquarters  

Our largest manufacturing facility and corporate headquarters are located in Reno, Nevada, where we
built our own 1.2 million square foot facility to house our manufacturing, cabinet production,
silkscreen, engineering, sales and corporate administrative functions. This facility supports
production for North America and all international markets, except Japan and the UK. In fiscal
2005, we completed an expansion of our Reno facility adding more than 100,000 square feet. We also
maintain warehousing facilities in Reno totaling 191,000 square feet.

North America  

Our largest sales and service office is located in Las Vegas, Nevada, where we lease
approximately 448,000 square feet in warehousing, sales and administration facilities. The
operating leases for the facilities expire between March 2007 and June 2008. In fiscal 2004, we
purchased land and began construction of a new 600,000 square foot Las Vegas campus, primarily to
consolidate several leased facilities. This facility is scheduled for completion in 2007.
Additionally, we lease approximately 395,000 square feet of warehousing, sales and service
facilities throughout the US and Canada to support local market needs.

International  

Our most significant international facilities are located in the UK and Australia. We own 149,000
square feet and lease 30,000 square feet under leases expiring through September 2010, which
support manufacturing, sales and administrative functions in the UK. We own 12,000 square feet in
New Zealand and lease 121,000 square feet in Australia under leases expiring through November 2009,
for subassembly, sales and administration. All other properties used for international operations
total 263,000 square feet under leases expiring through April 2012.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings 

IGT has been named in and has brought lawsuits in the normal course of business. We do not
expect the outcome of these suits to have a material adverse effect on our financial position or
results of operations. A description of certain of these matters is contained in Note 15 of our
Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

None

24 

Table of Contents   

PART II 

Item 5.  
       
      Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities  

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol  IGT.  The
following table presents the high and low closing prices of our common stock as traded on the NYSE
and quarterly cash dividends declared for the last two fiscal years.

There were approximately 2,400 record holders of IGT s common stock and the closing price
was $43.75 as of December 1, 2006.

Share Repurchases  

The
purpose of our 1990 common stock repurchase authorization, as
amended, is to return value to our shareholders and reduce
the number of shares outstanding. We may repurchase shares in the open market, in privately
negotiated transactions, or under Rule 10b5-1 trading plans, depending on market conditions and
other factors. The authorization does not specify an expiration date.

Our fourth
quarter repurchases and remaining authorization is summarized below. Shares
purchased exclude treasury shares acquired in non-cash transactions related to forfeited stock
awards or shares exchanged for options exercised. We repurchased no additional shares after
September 30, 2006 through December 8, 2006.

25 

Table of Contents   

Item 6. Selected Financial Data 

The following should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8, Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.

FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 

(1)    
       
       The results of Anchor and the consolidation of the JV following the
acquisition of Anchor on December 30, 2001 were included for nine months in fiscal 2002 and
the full year thereafter. Prior to the Anchor acquisition, our share of the JV was reflected
net of expenses in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates.  

(2)    
       
       Fiscal 2002 earnings were reduced by: $20.2 million ($12.6 million after tax or
$0.03 per diluted share) related to litigation settlements; and $21.2 million pretax ($13.2
million after tax or $0.04 per diluted share) for losses on early debt retirement.   

(3)    
       
       Fiscal 2004 includes $127.9 million pretax ($81.4 million after tax or $0.22 per
diluted share) for losses on early debt redemption.   

(4)     
       
       Certain discontinued Anchor operations were reclassified and sold subsequent to
acquisition. Fiscal 2004 includes related gain on sale of $56.7 million after tax.  

(5)     
       
      Fiscal 2004 includes $969.6 million of principal debt reduction. Fiscal 2003
includes proceeds of $575.0 million from debentures issued.  

(6)     
       
       Capital spending increases relate primarily to additional investments in gaming
operations equipment. Additionally, fiscal 2005 and 2006 includes spending for our new Las
Vegas campus and Reno expansion.  

(7)     
       
       Jackpot liabilities increased in fiscal 2004 due to VIE s consolidated and
decreased in fiscal 2006 due to VIE s deconsolidated.  

(8)     
       
       Cash and investment securities include restricted amounts.  

26 

Table of Contents   

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 

COMPANY OVERVIEW 

The following MDA is intended to enhance the reader s understanding of International Game
Technology, our operations and our present business environment. MDA is provided as a supplement
to and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the
accompanying notes. Throughout this section, table amounts are presented in millions, except units,
and EPS.

Our MDA is organized into the following sections:

OUR BUSINESS   a general description of our business and operating segments 

OUR FOCUS   a summary of our strategies and opportunities 

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS   a discussion of recently issued accounting
standards with significance to our business 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES   a discussion of accounting policies that require
critical judgments and estimates 

CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS   a comparative analysis of income from continuing
operations for the three fiscal years presented in our consolidated financial statements 

BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS   a comparative analysis of business segment results for the
three fiscal years presented in our consolidated financial statements 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES   a year-over-year comparative analysis of cash flows
and capital resources for the three fiscal years presented in our consolidated financial
statements 

FINANCIAL CONDITION  - analysis of significant changes in our financial position 

OUR BUSINESS 

International Game Technology is a global company specializing in the design, manufacture,
and marketing of computerized gaming equipment, systems and services. Our vision is to be the
preeminent supplier of gaming products to the world. We strive to maintain a wide array of
entertainment inspired gaming product lines, targeting gaming markets in all legal jurisdictions
worldwide. We are committed to providing quality products at competitive prices, designed to
increase the potential for operator profits by serving players better.

Our annual revenues totaled $2.5 billion in fiscal 2006. We derive our revenues in two ways,
either from the sale (product sales) and the placement (gaming operations) of gaming products,
services or intellectual properties. Operating results reviewed by our chief decision maker
encompass all revenue sources within each geographical customer region. We currently view our
business in two regional operating segments, each incorporating all types of revenues.

North America includes our operations in the US and Canada. 

International encompasses our efforts abroad in Asia, Australia, New Zealand, Europe,
Japan, Latin America, Russia, South Africa, and the UK. 

Additionally, certain income and expenses related to company-wide initiatives are managed at the
corporate level and not allocated to an operating segment. See the BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS below
and Note 18 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional segment information and
financial results.

OUR FOCUS 

We remain dedicated to generating financial growth by continuing to focus on the three
cornerstones of our success: product development; market development; and capital deployment.

Product Development 

The driving force behind our success is the ability to offer the best games, platforms and systems
through dedicated product development efforts and superior customer service. Our surveys indicate
we invest a great deal more in product development than our competitors and expect this advantage
will help us to deliver the broadest product lines across most markets. We pioneer innovation
centered on serving players better by utilizing the power of networked gaming, information
technology, game design, and services to maximize the potential for operator profitability.

27 

Table of Contents   

Our game libraries are perpetually evolving to meet changing player preferences and fit the
needs of a variety of global gaming markets. During the year just ended, we introduced the
concept of group play with  Wheel of Fortune    Super Spin   on our  AVP    TrimLine    platform . We
plan to further this concept with other multi-player interactive games in the upcoming year.
Expansion of low-denomination and MLP games continues to drive incremental growth in our gaming
operations installed base. Recently, we have been intensifying our efforts to expand our video
game offerings and reducing time to market.

Our server-based design efforts have shifted toward a more comprehensive vision of enterprise-wide
casino applications with features beyond operational efficiencies as part of our commitment to
lead the industry in the networked gaming transformation. We believe that our applications will
help differentiate our products in this area and offer the operator new ways to engage and
interact with their players, as well as market cross-functional products and player conveniences.
With four commercial field trials under way and our first large scale installation anticipated in
fiscal 2008, we expect  sb     technology will become more significant in 2009 and 2010.

Our slot systems market share continues to grow, with installations up 23% in fiscal 2006 to
finish the year at 627 systems installed worldwide. We expect to bring the third tier of our
 Table iD   product to market in fiscal 2007. This product was developed in cooperation with PGIC
and ShuffleMaster.  Table iD   will extend IGT s product reach into the table games area of the
casino floor, with the automation of accounting functions, player tracking, and added bonus
features.

We continue building our intellectual property portfolio, capitalizing $21.8 million of additions
this year. Substantiating the strength of our patents, original IGT patents are frequently cited
in later patent applications and applied in other industries. See the Product Development section
of Item I. Business for further discussion of our product development efforts.

Market Development 

IGT maintains a significant market share and is dependent in part on new market opportunities to
generate growth. With industry analysts projecting a modest average annual growth rate through
2010, we have several initiatives directed at enhancing this growth rate and accommodating entry
into new areas of gaming. We continue expanding our presence in non-traditional CDS and Class II
markets, most significantly in Mexico, as well as Oklahoma, California, Florida, Washington,
Alabama, South Africa, and Malta. During fiscal 2006, we more than tripled our CDS installed base
to over 14,300 units, up 10,000 from last year.

After a relatively quiet period for new market opportunities in North America, we look forward
with cautious optimism to several new markets opening in 2007. Pennsylvania and Arkansas overcame
legislative hurdles this year. Two new tracks are scheduled to open in New York, and Florida is
expected to expand with race tracks in Broward County and growth in tribal facilities.

Prospects for growth in international markets are favorable. We will continue expanding our
presence in Mexico. We expect to realize the benefits of a level playing field in Japan as the
market fully transitions to a Reg-5 environment in fiscal 2007. Already an active provider of
gaming systems solutions in Macau, we are focused on customized product development to improve our
market position.

As has been the case over the past 10 to 15 years, we believe additional US states will continue
to evaluate gaming as a viable means for promoting tourism, adding jobs to local economies, and
raising tax revenues. Trends appear positive in terms of the public s acceptance of gaming as a
form of entertainment. Similarly, gaming continues expanding in a number of foreign countries,
where competition for tourism spending and the need for additional government revenues make gaming
a compelling option. See the Regional Markets section of Item I. Business for further discussion
of our market development efforts.

Capital Deployment 

We generated substantial operating cash flows in fiscal 2006, allowing us to reinvest in our
business through capital expenditures and business alliances, as well as generate returns to our
shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. See the LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
section that follows for current share repurchase activity.

We enter into strategic business acquisitions and alliances as part of our ongoing effort to
create shareholder value designed to complement our internal resources. We consider businesses
that:

offer opportunities to diversify our geographic reach 

expand our product lines and customer base 

leverage our technological and manufacturing infrastructure to increase our rates of return 

28 

Table of Contents   

During fiscal 2006, we purchased a minority equity interest in Walker Digital s gaming subsidiary,
Casino IP Holdings, LLC, and executed agreements for cooperative product development and
marketing. This relationship provides access to an intellectual property portfolio focused on the
creative use of casino networks, particularly for player preferences, which we expect will
facilitate our server-based product line.

Additionally, we signed an agreement that will permit us to acquire Venture Catalyst Incorporated
(VCAT) for an estimated purchase price of $22.0 million. We expect VCAT s Mariposa software will enhance
our ability to provide leading technology and services for casino customer relationship management.
The transaction is expected to close in the first half of fiscal 2007 subject to regulatory
approvals and VCAT shareholder approval . 

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 

In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we adopted SFAS 123R,  Share-Based Payment , and
recognized share-based compensation in our financial statements. See the CONSOLIDATED OPERATING
RESULTS section that follows for a discussion of the impact to operating results for the year and
Note 3 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the adoption
of SFAS 123R . See Note 1 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information regarding recently issued accounting standards.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES 

Our consolidated financial statements were prepared in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the US, which require us to make assumptions and estimates about future
events and apply judgments that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Because future events and
their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from our assumptions
and estimates and those differences could be material. We base our estimates on historical
experience, current trends in our company, and the industry as a whole, and other factors
management considers relevant when preparing our consolidated financial statements.

We consider the following accounting estimates to be the most critical to aid in fully
understanding and evaluating our reported financial results and they require us to make difficult,
subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain or variable. Senior
management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of the following accounting
estimates, considered most sensitive to changes from external factors, with the Audit Committee of
our Board of Directors.

Intangible Assets, including Goodwill and Prepaid Royalties  

We review goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment annually, and whenever events or
circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable or warrant a revision to the
estimated remaining useful life, in accordance with SFAS 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,  and SFAS 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets .

Our forecasted future cash flows used to test the recoverability or determine the fair value of
intangibles are based on assumptions that are consistent with plans used to manage the underlying
business. Factors used in our evaluations of potential impairment and fair value require
significant judgments about respective estimated useful lives, risk rates, forecasted growth rates,
brand history, expected market growth, competitive environment, market share, future business
prospects and success of our products. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially
affect the determination of recoverability or fair value. While we believe that our estimates of
future revenues and cash flows are reasonable, different assumptions could materially affect our
assessment of useful lives, recoverability and fair values.

Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification
of reporting units, allocation of related goodwill, assignment of corporate shared assets and
liabilities to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. We
determine the fair value of our reporting units using the discounted cash flow method, and compared
the implied valuation multiples to a group of guideline public companies under the Market approach
to test the reasonableness of the discounted cash flow results.

Our goodwill and intangible assets totaled $1.4 billion at September 30, 2006 and September 30,
2005. If the estimated fair value or useful lives of our intangible assets were to decrease, the
most significant impact would be an increase to amortization expense and/or impairment, thereby
decreasing our results of operations. We recorded no goodwill impairment charges in fiscal years
2006, 2005 or 2004.

We also regularly evaluate the estimated future benefit of prepaid royalties, as well as minimum
commitments not yet paid, to determine amounts unlikely to be realized from forecasted sales or
placements of our games. If actual or revised forecasts fall below the initial estimate, then we
may need to revise the remaining useful life and/or record additional charges. The carrying value
of our prepaid and deferred royalties totaled $136.5 million at September 30, 2006 and $99.4
million at September 30, 2005.

29 

Table of Contents   

Jackpot Liabilities and Expenses  

Changes to our estimates for jackpot liabilities and resulting expense primarily relate to
variations in the jackpot life cycle, volume of slot play, timing of jackpots won, and market
interest rate trends (see Item 7A, Market Risk). The initial progressive meter liability on a new
system is deferred and subsequently amortized to jackpot expense as future contribution revenues
are generated from slot play. Current and non-current portions of jackpot liabilities, as well as
jackpot expense, may also be impacted by changes in our estimates and assumptions regarding the
number of future winners who may elect lump sum payout .

Our jackpot liabilities totaled $546.7 million at September 30, 2006 and $705.8 million at
September 30, 2005. Jackpot expense totaled $184.9 million for fiscal 2006, $258.5 million in
fiscal 2005 and $292.0 million in fiscal 2004. See Note 1 of our Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional accounting policies related to jackpot liabilities and expense.

Inventory and Gaming Operations Equipment  

The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our
products within specific time horizons, generally, one year or less. If we experience a
significant unexpected decrease in demand for our products or a higher occurrence of inventory
obsolescence because of changes in technology or customer requirements, we could be required to
increase our inventory provisions. Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the
need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times versus the risk of
inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. Our
inventories totaled $162.1 million at September 30, 2006 and $142.3 million at September 30, 2005.

We are also required to estimate salvage values and useful lives for our gaming operations
equipment. Trends in market demand and technological obsolescence may require us to record
additional asset charges, which would have a negative impact on gross profit. In fiscal 2005, our
assessment of estimated salvage values resulted in technological obsolescence charges of $41.6
million to cost of gaming operations due to expected future releases of more advanced cabinet and
game designs.

Share-based Compensation  

We began accounting for share-based compensation in accordance with SFAS 123R in the first quarter
of fiscal 2006. Under the fair value recognition provisions, we estimate share-based compensation
at the award grant date and recognize expense over the service period. Option valuation models
require the input of highly subjective assumptions, and changes in the assumptions used can
materially affect the fair value estimate. Judgment is required in estimating stock price
volatility, forfeiture rates, expected dividends, and expected terms that options remain
outstanding. See Note 3 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
regarding the adoption of SFAS 123R.

Income Taxes  

Determination of the appropriate amount and classification of income taxes depends on several
factors, including estimates of the timing and probability of realization of deferred income
taxes, as well as income tax payment timing. We adjust deferred taxes based on the changes in the
difference between the book and tax basis of our assets and liabilities, measured by future tax
rates we estimate will apply when these differences are expected to reverse. This process
involves estimating our current tax position in each federal, state, and foreign jurisdiction, as
well as making judgments as to whether our taxable income in future periods will be sufficient to
fully recover any deferred tax assets. We establish a valuation allowance to the extent recovery
of deferred tax assets is not likely based on our estimation of future taxable income in each
jurisdiction.

The calculation of our tax liabilities also involves dealing with uncertainties in the application
of complex tax regulations. We recognize potential tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit
issues in the US and other jurisdictions based on our estimate of the extent to which additional
taxes will be due. If payment of these amounts proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of
liabilities could result in the recognition of a future tax benefit. If our tax liabilities are
understated, a charge to our tax provision would result. Changes in current tax laws, enacted tax
rates, geographic mix or the estimated level of annual taxable income could change our valuation
of deferred tax assets and liabilities, which in turn impacts our effective tax rate and tax
provision. Additionally, we are currently evaluating the impact of the guidance issued in June
2006 under FIN 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB Statement
No. 109 , effective for IGT at the beginning of fiscal year 2008.

Net deferred tax assets totaled $136.6 million at September 30, 2006 and $93.2 million at
September 30, 2005 and accrued income taxes totaled $36.1 million at September 30, 2006 and $14.5
million at September 30, 2005.

30 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS   A Year Over Year Comparative Analysis 

Fiscal 2006 vs Fiscal 2005  

Consolidated operating results improved over the prior year primarily due to a more favorable
product sales mix and growth in our gaming operations installed base. EPS was also positively
impacted by share repurchases and the exchange of our old Debentures for new Debentures with a net
settlement feature in April 2006. See Notes 10 and 14 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information regarding this exchange and the impact on our EPS calculation.

Significant items affecting the comparability of fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2005 included:

current year R D charges of $7.2 million after tax related to the buyout of a third party development contract 

prior year salvage value and asset obsolescence charges of $26.6 million after tax 

prior year Gulf Coast hurricane charges of $3.2 million after tax and estimated lost
earnings of $6.3 million after tax 

prior year reorganization severance costs of $6.7 million after tax 

prior year income of $6.0 million after tax realized on early loan payoffs 

31 

Table of Contents   

Consolidated Product Sales 

Revenues and gross profits grew in the current year driven by an improved mix of premium priced
products, including our  AVP     Trimline machines, and record non-machine sales including a 47%
increase in gaming systems. Gross margin also increased due to fewer lower margin pachisuro
machine sales. We estimate product sales margins will fluctuate between 49% and 51% for fiscal
2007, depending on the geographical mix and types of products sold.

Consolidated
Gaming Operations 

Current year revenue improvement is attributable to our installed base reaching an all time high,
with growth in casino and lease operations units, as well as additions from Wager Works. Our
expansion into the central determination and Class II markets of Mexico, California, Alabama,
Florida, New York, Washington, and South Africa, as well as the emerging instant bingo and poker
markets of Oklahoma, is a principal factor in our installed base growth. Gross profit and margin
increases are primarily due to lower jackpot expenses and prior year obsolescence charges. Overall
performance was strengthened by the continuing success of our low-denomination and MLP games, as
well as the more recent community play installations of  Wheel of Fortune    Super Spin  . We
estimate gaming operations margins will trend between 57% and 59% next year, depending on installed
base mix, play levels, and interest rate movements. Continued decline in average revenue per
device is primarily due to the increasing mix of lower revenue central determination and Class II
units.

Fiscal 2005 vs Fiscal 2004  

Fiscal 2005 income and EPS from continuing operations grew slightly despite declining unit volumes.
Year over year earnings improvements were attributable to increased international contributions,
growth in gaming operations revenues and non-machine sales.

In addition to fiscal 2005 items noted above, significant items in fiscal 2004 affecting comparability included:

early debt redemption losses of $77.0 million after tax 

income tax provision reductions of $13.9 million, primarily related to foreign tax credits 

an additional week related to our 52/53-week fiscal year, primarily affecting gaming
operations and operating expenses 

Fiscal 2004 discontinued operations related to certain Anchor operations divested subsequent to
acquisition are discussed further in Note 4 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Consolidated Product Sales 

Fiscal 2005 sales were adversely affected by the slowdown in demand for TITO related replacement
machines, as well as fewer new market opportunities. Average machine prices declined in fiscal
2005 due to a higher mix of lower priced pachisuro machines. The allocation of fixed costs across
lower unit sales volumes also contributed to the fiscal 2005 gross margin decline.

Consolidated Gaming Operations 

Revenues improved in fiscal 2005 primarily due to installed base growth, as well as increased play
levels resulting from new game introductions and removal of lower performing units. The decrease
in fiscal 2005 gross profit is primarily due to technical obsolescence charges related to demand
transitions toward our newer platform games and the extra week in 2004. Gross margin decline in
2005 was also attributable to an increasing mix of lower yielding CDS and Class II games, as well
as an additional six months of VIE trust revenues and expenses with no gross profit impact.

Operating Expenses 

32 

Table of Contents   

Operating expenses are increasing as we prepare for anticipated growing markets and pursue
developing new technology. Consolidated operating expenses increased in fiscal 2006 compared to
2005 mainly due to:

additional legal and compliance costs of $17.0 million primarily related to obtaining
and protecting intellectual property, as well as regulatory requirements for new products 

additional investment in R D to support next generation technologies, including $11.3
million related to the buyout of a third party development contract 

SFAS 123R share-based compensation of $35.3 million 

additional WagerWorks operating expenses of $25.0 million, including amortization of acquired intangibles 

The increase in consolidated operating expenses in fiscal 2005 over fiscal 2004 is principally the result of:

higher legal and compliance costs 

additional severance costs of $10.0 million related to several operational reorganization initiatives 

higher R D costs supporting our commitment to the development of innovative games, platforms and systems 

partially offset by reduced bad debt provisions required to maintain reserves, as a
result of a more favorable risk profile on outstanding receivables 

Other Income (Expense) and Taxes 

Fiscal 2005 interest income included $10.2 million in financing fees realized on an early
loan payoff. Other income (expense) included a favorable legal settlement of $3.9 million and a
$2.1 million gain on the sale of our Rapid City, South Dakota facility in fiscal 2006 versus
unfavorable legal settlements in the prior year. The deconsolidation of our NJ VIE trusts in
November 2005 also decreased interest income and expense related to jackpot annuities. See Note 1
of our Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the NJ VIE trusts
deconsolidation. The fiscal 2004 early debt redemption related to our 2009 and 2004 senior notes
reduced interest costs in subsequent years.

Our current year tax rate increased primarily due to the expiration of R D tax credits and changes
in the geographic mix of taxable income. We anticipate an effective tax rate between 36% and 37%
in fiscal 2007, depending on potential reinstatement of R D tax credits and variations in
geographic mix. The 2004 tax provision was reduced $13.9 million primarily due to the utilization
of foreign income tax credits as a result of changes in our geographic mix of taxable income.

33 

Table of Contents   

BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS   A Year Over Year Comparative Analysis 

Operating income for each division reflects applicable operating expenses. See Note 18 of
our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional business segment information.

North America 

Fiscal 2006 vs Fiscal 2005  

The North America operating segment posted improved operating results in the current year from the
combined performance of product sales and gaming operations.

North America Product Sales 

With units up just slightly, a more favorable mix of premium priced products, including our new
 AVP    TrimLine     machines, was the primary driver of improvements in all product sales
measures. Growing non-machine sales included additional  IGT Advantage     systems
installations, increased game theme conversions and intellectual property revenues.

North America Gaming Operations 

Growth in our installed base, as well as game play performance, is driving improved gaming
operations revenues. Gross profit and margin improvements in fiscal 2006 are primarily
attributable to:

lower jackpot expenses related to effective yield management strategies 

technological obsolescence charges in fiscal 2005 related to demand transitioning toward newer platform games 

increased contribution from higher margin MLP, CDS, and lease operations games 

The growth in our installed base resulted primarily from placements of:

Instant Bingo and poker products in Oklahoma 

CDS and Class II units in California, Alabama, and Florida 

lease operations games in New York and Delaware 

While growth in our installed base is largely dependent on gaming industry expansion, we
continually focus on strategies to improve yields, including:

managing the types of games and jurisdictions 

replacement of underperforming games with higher yielding games 

the pace of new game introductions 

the size of initial progressive jackpots and related pricing. 

34 

Table of Contents   

Fiscal 2005 vs Fiscal 2004  

North America Product Sales 

Machine sales were down in fiscal 2005 as a result of lower replacement demand and fewer new market
opportunities. Despite lower machine volumes in fiscal 2005, we maintained gross margins as a
result of increased pricing realization and a growing contribution from non-machine revenues.

North America Gaming Operations 

Revenues improved in fiscal 2005, despite interruptions from hurricanes Katrina and Rita, attributable to:

growth in our installed base 

increased play levels 

VIE consolidations included for an additional six months in fiscal 2005 

Gross profit decline in fiscal 2005 was primarily due to:

salvage and asset obsolescence charges related to transitioning demand toward newer games 

the extra week adding approximately $11.1 million in fiscal 2004 

partially offset by increased play levels 

Gross margin also declined related to the additional six months of VIE trust revenues and expenses
with no gross profit.

The growth in our installed base of proprietary games was primarily related to additional placements in:

casino operation markets in Alabama, California, Florida and Washington 

lease operation markets in New York, Rhode Island, and Delaware 

International 

Fiscal 2006 vs Fiscal 2005  

Overall international improvements for the current year are substantially due to growth in gaming
operations. Stronger operating results achieved most notably in Australia, Latin America and the
UK offset a difficult year in Japan due to regulatory transitions and additional operating costs
from WagerWorks.

International product sales were down in fiscal 2006 due to Japan s market transition from Reg-4 to
the more restrictive Reg-5 games. Other international markets reflected improved units shipped.
Gross margin improvement was attributable to fewer lower margin pachisuro games, as well as greater
contributions from premium products and non-machine revenues.

35 

Table of Contents   

International margins will fluctuate depending upon the geographic mix of product sales, especially
related to the timing of contributions from Japan. Successful pachisuro game releases in Japan add
incrementally to gross profit and operating income, but lower prices provide reduced gross margins.
During fiscal 2006 we worked to position ourselves as a leading Reg-5 supplier in Japan, but these
less volatile games were not as popular in the marketplace competing against the less restrictive
Reg-4 product. We expect to benefit in the upcoming year when all products available for sale must
be Reg-5 compliant.

The increase in gaming operations revenues is primarily the result of increased placements in
Mexico s growing CDS Video Bingo market, as well as the addition of WagerWorks acquired in August
2005. Our installed base in Mexico grew to over 5,100 games from the initial 500 units placed last
year. Additionally, we introduced WAP games in South Africa during fiscal 2006.

Fiscal 2005 vs Fiscal 2004  

International revenues and gross profit improved in fiscal 2005 primarily due to:

the success of  The Terminator     and  Winning Post   pachisuro games in Japan, with
combined sales of 48,100 units versus 18,000  Nobunaga   units in fiscal 2004 

a strong mix of premium products and parts sales in Australia 

increased casino market sales in Europe and South Africa 

increased machine and systems sales in Latin America 

favorable foreign exchange 

gaming operations installed base growth 

The decline in product sales gross margins in fiscal 2005 was primarily due to a greater volume of
lower margin pachisuro games.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Capital Resources 

Our principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operations, which allows us to
reinvest in our business. Other sources of capital include, but are not limited to, the issuance
of public or private placement debt, bank borrowings under our credit facility and the issuance of
equity securities. We expect our available capital resources will sufficiently fund current
capital expenditures and operating requirements, scheduled debt repayments, dividends, interest
and income tax obligations.

Our working capital decreased to $129.1 million at September 30, 2006 from $219.6 million at
September 30, 2005, primarily due to reductions in cash and investments, as well as additional
foreign borrowings and increased accrued liabilities. Working capital statistics for fiscal 2006
compared to the prior year included:

average days sales outstanding remained consistent with the prior year at 74 days 

inventory turns decreased to 3.8 compared to 4.2 

Cash Flows Summary 

Operations  

Operating cash flows decreased in fiscal 2006 primarily due to:

increased receivables consistent with growth in product sales 

additional prepayments to secure long-term licensing rights 

timing of income tax payments 

current year classification of excess tax benefits from employee stock plans in
financing cash flows as a result of SFAS 123R accounting changes 

36 

Table of Contents   

Fluctuations in net cash flows from operations in fiscal 2005 over fiscal 2004 were primarily related to:

additional cash used in fiscal 2004 to extend exclusive rights to licensed properties 

higher interest payments in fiscal 2004 on our senior notes subsequently redeemed 

timing of receivable collections 

payments to jackpot winners in excess of collections to fund jackpot liabilities 

timing of income tax payments 

Fluctuations in net cash flows related to WAP jackpot liabilities reflect timing variations in
jackpot life cycles, slot play volumes, and winner payments.

Investing  

Fluctuation in net investing cash flows in fiscal 2006 versus 2005 is predominantly due to:

additional capital expenditures 

equity investment in Casino IP Holdings, LLC, 

offset by net investment securities proceeds 

$86.7 million additional cash used in the prior year for business acquisitions 

Fluctuation in net investing cash flows in fiscal 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily attributed to:

fiscal 2004 proceeds of $151.5 million from the sale of discontinued OES operations 

less cash provided from net investment securities proceeds 

receipt of $46.4 million in fiscal 2004 on the Pala note acquired with Anchor 

additional capital expenditures 

The deconsolidation of New Jersey s past winner liabilities reduced investing cash flows for winner
payments and jackpot annuity proceeds. See Note 1 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information about accounting for jackpot liabilities.

Current year capital investments include ongoing construction of our new Las Vegas campus and
gaming operations equipment additions consistent with installed base growth, largely in Mexico
(refer to OPERATING RESULTS discussion above). Estimated costs to complete Las Vegas construction
totaled $30.6 million at September 30, 2006. We also plan to initiate new construction in Reno for
a cost of $75.0 million over the next two years. The increase in spending on gaming operations
equipment in fiscal 2005 over fiscal 2004 also included spending associated with the deployment of
new products incorporating more innovative features.

Capital Expenditures 

Financing  

The fluctuation in net financing cash flows in fiscal 2006 is primarily the result of current year
proceeds from employee stock plans, including excess tax benefits realized and current year share
repurchases, including a structured share repurchase.

Net financing cash flows improved in fiscal 2005 versus 2004 primarily as a result of the 2004
redemption of senior notes, partially offset by additional fiscal 2005 share repurchases, including
a structured share repurchase, and dividends paid.

37 

Table of Contents   

Stock
Repurchases  

Under our ongoing share repurchase authorization we may repurchase an additional 11.4
million shares of IGT common stock as of September 30, 2006. We repurchase shares in open market
or privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions and other factors, to return
value to shareholders and reduce outstanding share dilution.

We repurchased 11.7 million shares for an aggregate price of $426.7 million in fiscal 2006, 12.8
million shares for an aggregate price of $354.7 million in fiscal 2005 and 4.1 million shares for
an aggregate price of $129.9 million in fiscal 2004. We repurchased no additional shares after
September 30, 2006 through December 8, 2006.

In September 2006, we bought 3.7 million shares through an accelerated share repurchase transaction
for an initial value of $150.0 million or $40.97 per share. The initial price paid under the
agreement was subject to a purchase price adjustment based on the weighted average price of our
stock through November 3, 2006, subject to a specified collar. Because our weighted average stock
price during the contract period was above the cap price of $40.97, we settled this transaction in
November 2006 with no additional cash or shares delivered by either party. The results of this
transaction are reflected in the treasury stock component of stockholders  equity.

During the third quarter, we prepaid $100.0 million in a structured share repurchase transaction
designed to settle in cash or IGT shares based on the closing stock price on June 29, 2006. Since
the closing price of our stock was above the predetermined threshold price of $35.50 per share, we
received cash of $101.1 million upon settlement in July. In September 2005, we prepaid $74.0
million in a similar structured share repurchase transaction, which resulted in cash received of
$77.8 million because our stock price was above the predetermined threshold price of $27.40 per
share on November 15, 2005. The results of these transactions are reflected in stockholders 
equity. We may use structured share repurchases in the future as part of our normal share
repurchase strategy.

Credit Facilities and Indebtedness (See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial
Statements) 

On April 4, 2006, we completed the exchange of 99.5% or $964.8 million aggregate principal
amount at maturity of our old Debentures for new Debentures with a net share settlement feature,
which requires us to settle the conversion obligation to holders in cash up to the accreted
principal amount and in common shares for any remaining conversion value. All other terms of the
new Debentures are substantially the same. Our Debentures are currently convertible through mid
January 2007.

On December 20, 2005, we entered into an amended and restated unsecured $2.5 billion credit
facility with a syndicate of banks, replacing the previous credit facility of $1.5 billion. We
continue to be in full compliance with all covenants contained in all debt agreements at September
30, 2006.

FINANCIAL CONDITION 

Total assets and liabilities decreased by $139.2 million during the current year with the
deconsolidation of our NJ trust VIEs as explained in Note 1 of our Consolidated Financial
Statements. This decrease to total assets was offset by increases in:

other assets related to prepaid licensing rights and intellectual property investments 

property, plant and equipment 

receivables related to sales timing 

The decrease in total liabilities was partially offset by increased borrowing on foreign credit
facilities and payment timing of liabilities.

Total stockholders  equity increased during fiscal 2006 primarily as the result of:

earnings 

proceeds from employee stock plans 

partially offset by dividends declared and share repurchases 

38 

Table of Contents   

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments 

The following table summarizes our minimum contractual obligations and commercial commitments
as of September 30, 2006 with the expected effect on our future liquidity and cash flows.

Our credit facility represents the principal amount due at maturity. Credit facility
interest resets quarterly and is estimated using current rates. Our letters of credit are issued
under our credit facility line of credit to insure our payment to certain vendors and governmental
agencies.

The Debentures are presented net of unamortized discount at September 30, 2006. Holders have the
right to require IGT to redeem the Debentures for an amount equal to their accreted value, plus
accrued and unpaid cash interest, if any, on January 29, 2008, 2013, 2018, 2023 and 2028. The
accreted value will be $625.0 million at January 29, 2008, and $966.1 million at maturity on
January 29, 2033. See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
related to long-term debt.

Winner payments represent the gross amounts due for jackpots. The timing and amount of expected
future winner payments are estimated based on historical patterns of winners  lump sum payment
elections. We maintain cash and investments at sufficient levels to fund our jackpot liabilities
and winner payments. See Notes 1 and 12 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information related to jackpot liabilities.

Unconditional amounts payable for licenses, royalties, intellectual property and community
reinvestments were recorded as liabilities at September 30, 2006. Royalties contingent on future
game sales or placements are not included in the table above. Construction commitments relate to
construction projects for Las Vegas and Reno. See Note 11 of our Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional information regarding operating leases.

Unfunded loans represent amounts available under development financing arrangements with
select customers to finance new or expanding gaming facilities. See Note 1 of our Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information regarding facility notes.

39 

Table of Contents   

Arrangements With Off-Balance Sheet Risks 

In the normal course of business, we are a party to financial instruments with off-balance sheet
risk, such as performance bonds and other guarantees not reflected in our balance sheet. We may
provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business
partners and other parties with respect to certain matters, including but not limited to, losses
arising:

out of our breach of agreements with those parties 

from services to be provided by us 

from intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties 

Additionally, we have agreements with our directors and certain officers that require us, among
other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their
status or service as directors or officers. We have also agreed to indemnify certain former
officers and directors of acquired companies. We maintain director and officer insurance, which
may cover our liabilities arising from these indemnification obligations in certain circumstances.

It is not possible to determine the maximum potential obligations under these indemnification
undertakings due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and
circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification undertakings may not be
subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs related to
indemnification obligations.

We do not expect any material losses from, nor are we dependent on off-balance sheet arrangements
to fund our operations. We describe additional off-balance sheet arrangements in Note 15 of our
Consolidated Financial Statements.

40 

Table of Contents   

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

We use derivative financial instruments to minimize our market risk exposure resulting from
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. The primary business objective of our
hedging program, as defined in our corporate risk management policy, is to minimize the impact of
transaction, remeasurement, and specified economic exposures to our net income and earnings per
share. The counter parties to these instruments are major commercial banks and we believe that
losses related to credit risk are remote. We are not party to leveraged derivatives and do not
hold or issue financial instruments for speculative purposes.

Foreign Currency Risk 

We routinely use forward exchange contracts to hedge our net exposures, by currency, related to
our monetary assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional foreign currency of our
operations. In addition, from time to time, we may enter into forward exchange contracts to
establish with certainty the US dollar amount of future firm commitments denominated in a foreign
currency.

Hedging 

Our net foreign currency exposure related to our monetary assets and liabilities totaled $151.0
million at September 30, 2006 and $138.8 million at September 30, 2005. The market value of
foreign currency contracts hedging this exposure totaled $148.7 million at September 30, 2006 and
$126.8 million at September 30, 2005.

Given our foreign exchange position, a 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates upon which
these foreign exchange contracts are based would result in exchange gains and losses. In all
material aspects, these exchange gains and losses would be offset by exchange gains and losses on
the underlying net monetary exposures for which the contracts are designated as hedges. We do not
expect material exchange rate gains or losses from unhedged foreign currency exposures.

Translation 

As currency rates change, translation of our foreign currency functional businesses into US
dollars affects year-over-year comparability of equity. We do not generally hedge translation
risks because cash flows from our international operations are generally reinvested locally.
Changes in the currency exchange rates that would have the largest impact on translating our
international net assets include the British pound, the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen and
the Euro. We estimate that a 10% change in foreign exchange rates would have impacted reported
equity by approximately $10.0 million at September 30, 2006 versus $5.0 million at September 30,
2005. This increase is consistent with our international growth. This sensitivity analysis
disregards the possibility that rates can move in opposite directions and that gains from one area
may or may not be offset by losses from another area.

Interest Rate Risk 

We estimate interest rate risk as the potential change in earnings resulting from a hypothetical
100 bps adverse change in interest rates.

Costs to fund jackpot liabilities 

Fluctuations in prime, treasury and agency rates due to changes in market and other economic
conditions directly impact our costs to fund jackpots, and therefore our gross profit in gaming
operations. If interest rates decline, our costs increase, and correspondingly our gross profit
declines. We estimate that a hypothetical decline of 100 bps in interest rates would have reduced
our gross profit by approximately $14.5 million in fiscal year 2006 and $24.2 million in fiscal
2005. We do not currently manage this exposure with derivative financial instruments.

Convertible Debentures Price Risk 

The fair value of our Debentures is affected by changes in the price of IGT stock and changes in
interest rates. The Debentures fair value will typically increase as our stock price increases
and decrease if our stock price decreases. In general, the fair value of an investment in a fixed
interest rate debt instrument increases as interest rates fall and decreases as interest rates
rise. The stock price and interest rate changes impact the fair value of the Debentures, but do
not affect our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. The fair value based on
quoted market prices totaled $854.4 million as of September 30, 2006 and $615.2 million as of
September 30, 2005. See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information regarding holder conversion rights.

41 

Table of Contents   

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Stockholders and Board of Directors 
International Game Technology 
Reno, Nevada:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of International Game Technology and
subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated
statements of income, cash flows, and stockholders  equity and comprehensive income for each of the
three years in the period ended September 30, 2006. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of International Game Technology and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2006
and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended September 30, 2006, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America.

As discussed in Notes 1 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements, on October 1, 2005,
the Company adopted SFAS 123R,  Share-Based Payment , which changed its method of accounting for
share-based compensation.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on the criteria established in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission and our report dated December 11, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management s
assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting and an
unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting.

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP

Los Angeles, California 
December 11, 2006

42 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS 

See accompanying notes 

43 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

See accompanying notes 

44 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS 

See accompanying notes 

45 

Table of Contents   

Consolidated Supplemental Cash Flows Information 

Depreciation, amortization, and asset charges reflected in the cash flows statements are
comprised of the amounts presented separately on the income statements, plus amounts classified as
a component of cost of product sales and cost of gaming operations.

See accompanying notes 

46 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

See accompanying notes 

47 

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Basis of Presentation and Consolidation 

Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of
the SEC and include all adjustments of a normal recurring nature that are necessary to fairly
present our consolidated results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for each period
presented.

Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of International Game Technology and all
majority-owned or controlled subsidiaries and variable interest entities of which we are the
primary beneficiary. All appropriate inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
We use the equity method to account for 50% or less owned joint ventures, as well as investments
in unconsolidated affiliates when we exercise significant influence, but do not control the
affiliate and when we are not the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity.

Our fiscal year is reported on a 52/53-week period that ends on the Saturday nearest to September
30 each year. Similarly, our quarters end on the Saturday nearest to the last day of the quarter
end month. For simplicity, all fiscal periods are presented as ending on the calendar month end.
Consistent with this practice, the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, October 1, 2005 and
October 2, 2004 are all presented as ended on September 30 of the relevant year. The results of
operations for fiscal 2006 and 2005 contain 52 weeks versus 53 weeks in fiscal 2004.

Unconsolidated Affiliate 

In February 2006, IGT paid $56.0 million for a 10% equity interest in Casino IP Holdings, LLC
(LLC), a variable interest entity formed to hold, develop, and license Walker Digital s
intellectual property identified for gambling use. IGT agreed to cooperatively develop and market
products, expected to be integral to our operations, using certain LLC innovations. We are not the
primary beneficiary of the LLC and apply the equity method of accounting. Our maximum exposure to
loss at September 30, 2006, is our net investment in the LLC of $52.8 million, included in other
non-current assets. Our portion of the LLC losses for the year ended September 30, 2006 totaling
$3.2 million is not material and presented as a component of SG A expense.

WAP Trust VIE Consolidations 

We consolidated our WAP trusts in Iowa and NJ beginning March 31, 2004, under FIN 46 (revised
December 2003),  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities . Prior to consolidation, we recognized
revenues from the trusts based on contractual fee arrangements. Consolidated trust assets equal
liabilities and relate primarily to jackpot funding. These VIE consolidations increase gaming
operations revenues and costs by approximately the same amount, resulting in no material impact to
gross profit or net income.

On November 4, 2005, because of an earlier change in gaming regulations, we assumed direct
responsibility for NJ WAP jackpot system operations previously under the control of a separate
trust administrator, including casino contribution revenues and future winner payments. The gaming
operations revenues and costs related to these NJ systems continue to be reflected in our
consolidated and North America operating results. IGT, as trustee and administrator, will
establish and consolidate any future NJ WAP trusts only for periodic payments to winners who
decline lump sum payout. The administration of past winner payments remained the responsibility of
the existing NJ trusts, which continued to be administered by the third party through November
2006. Accordingly, we deconsolidated approximately $139.2 million of NJ VIE assets and liabilities
related to past winners during the first quarter of fiscal 2006.

Effective November 2006, IGT received approval from the NJ gaming authorities and entered into
agreement with the trustees to assume administration of the trusts related to past winners. As a
result of this new agreement, IGT will again consolidate jackpot assets and liabilities of these
trusts in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. This consolidation will increase our interest income
and expense, but will have no incremental impact on revenues or costs of gaming operations.

We continue to consolidate the Iowa trust VIE with assets of $4.1 million and revenues of $2.2
million, as of and for the year ended September 30, 2006. Consolidated trust VIE assets, inclusive
of Iowa and NJ, were $165.3 million at September 30, 2005. Trust VIE consolidations contributed
revenues of $44.2 million in fiscal 2005 and $23.8 million during the last half of fiscal 2004.

48 

Table of Contents   

Use of Estimates 

Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with US GAAP. Accordingly,
we are required to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that we believe are reasonable based
on our historical experience, contract terms, observance of known trends in our company and the
industry as a whole, and information available from other outside sources. Our estimates affect
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities. On a regular basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those
related to customer programs and incentives, revenue recognition, product returns, long-lived
assets, prepaid and deferred royalties, jackpot liabilities, inventory obsolescence, share-based
compensation, income taxes, bad debts, investments, warranty obligations, long-term contracts,
contingencies and litigation. Actual results may differ from initial estimates.

Revenue Recognition 

We recognize revenue when all of the following have been satisfied:

persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists 

the price to the customer is fixed and determinable 

delivery has occurred and any acceptance terms have been fulfilled 

no significant contractual obligations remain 

collection is reasonably assured 

Product Sales 

Our product sales revenues are generated from the sale of gaming machines, systems, parts,
conversion kits, content fees, intellectual property royalty and license fees, equipment and
services. Revenues are reported net of incentive rebates, discounts, sales taxes and other taxes
of a similar nature. Revenues related to customized R D contracts are recognized as the related
work is delivered. We recognize license fee revenues from business affiliates over the term of the
associated agreement unless the fee is in exchange for products delivered or services performed
that represent the culmination of a separate earnings process .  Amounts received prior to
completing the earnings process are deferred until revenue recognition criteria are met.

Our sales credit terms are predominately 90 days or less. In certain jurisdictions and in limited
circumstances, we may extend credit terms up to two years. We also grant extended payment terms
under contracts of sale secured by the related equipment sold, generally for terms of one to four
years with interest recognized at prevailing rates.

For sales arrangements with multiple deliverables, we apply the guidance from SOP 97-2,  Software
Revenue Recognition , as amended, and EITF 00-21,  Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables .
Deliverables are divided into separate units of accounting if:

each item has value to the customer on a stand alone basis 

we have objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered items 

delivery of any undelivered item is considered probable and substantially in our control 

The majority of our multiple element contracts are for some combination of machines, systems
software, license fees and maintenance. The contracts separately state pricing for each
deliverable based on our standard price list (the price charged for the deliverable when it is sold
separately) less a specified discount. The terms of performance, cancellation, termination, or
refund provisions in our multiple element contracts are similar to those in a contract or sales
order for an individual stand alone deliverable. Each deliverable is accompanied by a fully
executed sales order signed by the customer and revenues are recognized when delivery has occurred.

Our services for initial installation, as well as standard warranty and technical support, are not
separately priced components of our sales arrangements and are included in our revenues when the
product is delivered. If the installation of the product is not considered inconsequential and
perfunctory, then we defer revenue recognition until the installation is complete.

License and/or warranty maintenance agreements with customer support terms that extend beyond the
standard period included in the sale of the product are recognized ratably over the term of the
service period. Revenues generated for additional training and education classes are recognized
when the services are performed. When software systems require significant customization specific
to the individual customer, we defer recognition of revenues until the software system product is
successfully installed, fully operational, and accepted by the customer.

49 

Table of Contents   

Gaming Operations 

Gaming operations revenues are generated from providing customers with our proprietary gaming
products, services, and/or intellectual properties under a variety of recurring revenue
arrangements, including:

WAP systems 

central determination systems 

stand alone participation and flat fee 

equipment leasing and rental 

online gaming solutions 

WAP systems entail a configuration of numerous electronically linked slot machines located in
multiple casino properties, connecting to an IGT central computer system via a network of
communications equipment. WAP systems games differ from stand alone units in that they build a
progressive jackpot with every wager until a player hits the top award winning combination. WAP
contribution revenues are recognized based on a percentage of coin-in generated by the game.
Participating casinos pay a percentage of the coin-in either directly to IGT or a trust for
services related to the design, assembly, installation, operation, maintenance, and marketing of
the WAP systems and to administer the progressive jackpot funding.

Unlike WAP systems where the game outcome is determined within the slot machine itself, central
determination systems determine and deliver game outcomes to the linked machines. CDS, stand
alone, and other equipment leasing or rentals are recognized based on our participation percentage
of the net win or on a flat fee basis with the passage of time.

Online gaming solutions encompass online casino gaming software and content licensing, as well as
back office operational support services. All online gaming solutions are provided under revenue
sharing arrangements based on net gaming revenues.

Share-based Compensation 

On October 1, 2005, IGT adopted the provisions of SFAS 123R and SAB 107, collectively  Share-Based
Payment , requiring the measurement and recognition of all share-based compensation under the fair
value method. We implemented SFAS 123R using the modified prospective transition method and
adjusted previously recorded deferred compensation back to additional paid-in capital. We have
elected not to use the alternate method for establishing and accounting for the APIC pool provided
for in FSP FAS 123R-3,  Transition Election Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based
Payment Awards. 

For the year ended September 30, 2006, we recognized compensation expense for all current award
grants and for the unvested portion of previous award grants based on grant date fair values.
Prior to fiscal 2006, we accounted for share-based awards under the APB 25 intrinsic value method,
which resulted in compensation expense recorded only for restricted share awards and the
modification or acquisition of outstanding unvested options. Prior period financial statements
have not been adjusted to reflect fair value share-based compensation under SFAS 123R.

With the adoption of SFAS 123R, we changed our method of expense attribution for fair value
share-based compensation from the accelerated approach to the straight-line approach for future
service based awards granted. We anticipate the straight-line method will provide a more
meaningful measure of costs incurred for service based awards. We use the accelerated method to
expense our outstanding performance-based awards, as defined in SFAS 123R. Compensation for
share-based awards granted prior to the beginning of fiscal 2006 will continue to be recognized
under the accelerated method.

We use historical data and projections to estimate expected employee behaviors related to option
exercises and forfeitures. SFAS 123R requires that forfeitures be included as part of the grant
date estimate. The cumulative effect of forfeitures related to previous SFAS 123 pro forma
expense was not material. Prior to adopting SFAS 123R, we reduced stock-based compensation
expense when forfeitures occurred.

The fair value of restricted share awards is based on the grant date market price of IGT stock. We
estimate the fair value of each stock option award on the grant date using the Black-Scholes
valuation model. Option valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, and
changes in assumptions used can materially affect the fair value estimate. Expected volatility
and dividends are based on implied and historical IGT stock factors. Expected term represents the
estimated weighted average time between grant and employee exercise. Risk free rate is based on US
Treasury rates appropriate for the expected term. See Note 3 for more information on our
share-based compensation plans.

50 

Table of Contents   

Advertising Costs 

IGT expenses advertising costs as incurred, except long term outdoor billboards that are
capitalized and amortized over the contract life. Advertising expenses totaled $17.5 million in
fiscal 2006, $19.5 million in fiscal 2005 and $19.4 million in fiscal 2004.

Research and Development 

Our products reach technological feasibility shortly before the products are released to
manufacturing and therefore R D costs are expensed as incurred. Employee related costs associated
with product development are included in R D costs. R D performed for specific customers is
charged to cost of product sales when the related sale is recorded.

Income Taxes 

We recognize deferred income tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of
events that have been included in the financial statements or tax returns. Deferred income taxes
reflect the net tax effects of (a) temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, and (b)
operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. We determine the net current and non-current
deferred tax assets or liabilities separately for federal, state, and
foreign jurisdictions.

Accrued income taxes are reduced by the tax benefits from employee stock options
exercised. We receive an income tax benefit on the difference between the market price of the
stock issued at the time of exercise and the option price.

Earnings Per Share 

We compute EPS using the weighted average number of common and potential shares outstanding. See
Note 14.

Cash and Equivalents 

Cash and equivalents consist primarily of deposits held at major banks, commercial paper, and
other money market securities with original maturities of 90 days or less.

Restricted Cash and Investments 

We are required by gaming regulations to maintain sufficient reserves in restricted accounts to be
used for the purpose of funding payments to progressive systems jackpot winners. The restricted
amounts (comprised of cash and short-term investments) are based primarily on the levels of the
progressive systems  primary jackpot meters (those displayed to slot players) and vary by
jurisdiction. Compliance with restricted cash requirements is reported to the gaming authorities
in various jurisdictions.

Investment Securities 

Our investment securities are classified as available-for-sale and stated at market value.
Unrealized gains and losses, net of income tax effects, are reported as a component of accumulated
other comprehensive income. Market value is determined by the most recently traded price of the
security at the balance sheet date. Net realized gains or losses are determined on the specific
identification cost method.

Receivables 

The carrying amount reflected in our consolidated balance sheet for receivables approximates fair
value.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 

We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts on our accounts, notes and contracts receivable
that we have deemed to have a high risk of collectibility. We analyze historical collection
trends, customer concentrations, customer creditworthiness, current economic trends and changes in
our customer payment terms when evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for doubtful accounts.
We also evaluate specifically reserved notes for placement on non-interest-accrual status.

Equipment Financing Contracts 

IGT grants extended payment terms to qualifying customers under contracts of sale. These contracts
are generally for terms of one to four years, with interest recognized at prevailing rates, and
secured by the related equipment sold.

Facility Notes 

IGT provides development financing loans to select customers for new or expanding gaming
facilities, generally under terms of one to ten years with interest at prevailing rates. Certain
agreements may also include provisions for the facility to reserve a percentage of its floor space
for the placement of IGT proprietary games, which may be reduced if the machines do not meet
certain performance standards. These agreements may call for IGT to receive a portion of the net
win on these proprietary games as repayment for some or all of the amounts financed. Unfunded
development financing loans totaled $17.8 million at September 30, 2006.

51 

Table of Contents   

Inventories 

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market value. We
regularly assess inventory quantities on hand and record provisions for excess and obsolete
inventory based primarily on our estimated forecast of product demand and production requirements.

Jackpot Annuity Investments 

These investments represent discounted qualifying US treasury or agency securities purchased and
held to maturity to fund annual jackpot payments due previous winners. We have both the intent and
ability to hold these investments to maturity and, therefore, classify them as held-to-maturity.
Accordingly, these investments are stated at cost, adjusted for interest accretion over the term of
the security. Many jurisdictions require regulatory approval for liquidation of these annuity
investments.

Property, Plant and Equipment 

We depreciate our property, plant and equipment down to salvage value using the straight-line
method. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred and improvements are capitalized. Asset
charges related to gaming operations equipment are recorded to cost of gaming operations.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 

We amortize our finite lived intangible assets to reflect the pattern in which the economic
benefits of the assets will be consumed based on projected usage and revenues over one to 18 years.
We determine amortization periods generally reflecting useful lives and the cash flow streams
associated with them. When the pattern in which economic benefit of asset consumption is
undeterminable, we amortize using the straight-line method.

We consider certain factors when assigning useful lives such as legal, regulatory and contractual
provisions, as well as the effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, and other economic
factors. See Note 9.

We evaluate the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at least
annually as of July 1 or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value of the assets may not be recoverable from related future undiscounted cash flows. Indicators
that could trigger an impairment review include legal and regulatory factors, market conditions,
and operational performance. Impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying amount
and the fair value of the assets, and is recognized as a component of income from operations. We
recognized no material impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets in fiscal 2006, 2005 or
2004.

Other Assets 

Other assets are primarily comprised of prepaid or deferred royalty costs, investments in
unconsolidated affiliates, deferred debt offering costs, and deposits.

Royalties 

We pay royalty and license fees for the use of third party trade names, celebrity likenesses,
content, and other intellectual property rights. We have classified prepaid and deferred royalty
costs as current and non-current assets based on the period of expected consumption related to
projected revenues. We amortize prepaid and deferred royalties to cost of product sales or cost
of gaming operations over the estimated period of expected consumption based on forecasted sales
and placement schedules. If a pattern cannot be reliably determined, we use the straight-line
method over the contract life. We also contract with certain parties for intellectual property
rights where future payments are contingent upon revenues generated.

We evaluate the future realization of prepaid and deferred royalties quarterly. Portions deemed
unrealizable related to royalties incurred after the related product has been released for general
distribution are charged to cost of product sales or cost of gaming operations. Royalties deemed
unlikely to be realized before the related product has been released for general distribution are
charged to R D expense.

Derivatives 

We recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities at the fair value of the instruments
based on current market rates. Accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on
the intended use and resulting designation. We use derivative financial instruments to minimize
our market risk exposure resulting from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The primary business objective of our hedging program is to minimize the impact to our earnings
resulting from exchange rate changes. The counter parties to our agreements are major commercial
banks and we expect losses related to credit risk will be remote. We are not a party to leveraged
derivatives and do not hold or issue financial instruments for speculative purposes.

52 

Table of Contents   

Foreign Currency Hedging 

We routinely use derivative financial instruments to hedge our net exposure, by currency, related
to our monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional foreign currency. These
hedging instruments are subject to fluctuations in value that are generally offset by the value of
the underlying exposures being hedged. These forward exchange contracts are not designated as
hedging instruments under SFAS 133 and resulting gains or losses are recognized in current
earnings.

Jackpot Liabilities and Expense 

WAP systems jackpots are generally payable in equal installments over a 20 to 26 year period or
immediately in the case of our instant win progressive jackpots. Winners may elect to receive a
lump sum payment for the present value of the jackpot discounted at applicable interest rates in
lieu of periodic annual installments. Discount rates eligible for use in the lump sum payment
calculation vary by jurisdiction and are impacted by market forces and other economic conditions.

Jackpot liabilities are comprised of payments due previous winners, as well as amounts due future
winners of progressive jackpots not yet won. Previous winner liabilities for periodic payments are
carried at the amortized cost of the jackpot annuity investments used to fund future periodic
payments. Liabilities due future winners are carried at the present value of the amount carried on
progressive jackpot meters for jackpots not yet won. Jackpot expense for the cost to fund jackpots
is subject to changes in the discount or interest rate used to present value progressive jackpot
liabilities due future winners.

We estimate the present value of progressive jackpot liabilities due future winners using current
market prime, treasury, or agency rates weighted with historical lump sum payout election ratios.
The most recent historical patterns indicate that approximately 85% of winners will elect the lump
sum payment option. Additionally, we estimate current liabilities for jackpots not yet won based
on our historical experience with winner payment elections, in conjunction with the theoretical
projected number of jackpots expected to hit within one year.

WAP Systems Interest 

Interest income accretion on jackpot annuity investments used to fund periodic payments is offset
by interest expense accretion for the accompanying jackpot liabilities for payments due previous
winners. The interest income and expense accrete at approximately the same rate and vary depending
on the amount of jackpots won and the number of winners electing periodic payments. WAP systems
interest expense totaled $23.2 million in fiscal 2006, $31.3 million in fiscal 2005 and $26.1
million in 2004.

We also hold a significant amount of cash and short-term investments related to our WAP
operations on which we earn interest income.

Other Liabilities 

Other liabilities are primarily comprised of accrued license and royalty fees, deferred
compensation, minority interest, and customer deposits.

Foreign Currency Translation 

The functional currency of certain IGT international subsidiaries is the local currency. For those
subsidiaries, we translate assets and liabilities at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet
date, and income and expense accounts at average exchange rates during the year. Resulting
currency translation adjustments are recorded directly to accumulated other comprehensive income
within stockholders  equity. Gains and losses resulting from transactions in non-functional
currencies are recorded in income. For subsidiaries whose functional currency is the US dollar,
gains and losses on non-US dollar denominated assets and liabilities are recorded in income.

Hurricane Damages 

We suffered damages and losses to our US gulf coast operations from the hurricanes in August and
September 2005, primarily affecting gaming operations machines destroyed or temporarily shutdown.

As a result, we recorded $5.5 million pre-tax of hurricane related expenses in September 2005,
including $2.8 million for the carrying value of assets destroyed, net of minimum insurance
recoveries, $1.7 million in other operating costs, and $1.0 million for disaster relief programs.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we received a $5.0 million advance on existing
receivables. The advance did not affect our operating results or working capital.

No determination has been made as to the total amount or timing of insurance recoveries. We carry
comprehensive business interruption and property damage insurance. Negotiations with our insurance
carriers are ongoing, and we continue to work closely with consultants to ascertain the full amount
of insurance proceeds due to IGT because of the damages and losses suffered in the hurricanes. We
will record any business interruption insurance recoveries for lost earnings and any property
insurance reimbursements over book value when realized and all contingencies are resolved. This
may result in periodic fluctuations affecting comparability.

53 

Table of Contents   

Recently Issued Accounting Standards 

SFAS 157 

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157,  Fair Value Measurements,  which defines fair value,
establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value
measurements. SFAS 157 does not require any new fair value measurements, but provides guidance on
how to measure fair value by providing a fair value hierarchy used to classify the source of the
information. This statement is effective for us beginning in October 2008. We are evaluating
whether adoption of this statement will result in a change to our fair value measurements.

SAB 108 

In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when
Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements.  SAB 108 requires analysis of
misstatements using both an income statement (rollover) approach and a balance sheet (iron curtain)
approach in assessing materiality and provides for a one-time cumulative effect transition
adjustment. SAB 108 is effective for our fiscal year 2007 annual financial statements. We do not
expect the adoption of this statement to have a material impact on our results of operations,
financial position or cash flows.

FIN 48 

In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an interpretation
of FASB Statement No. 109.  FIN 48 prescribes the recognition threshold and measurement criteria
for determining the tax benefit amounts to recognize in the financial statements. This
interpretation is effective for us beginning in October 2007. We are evaluating the potential
impact of adopting this interpretation on our future results of operations, financial position or
cash flows.

SFAS 154 

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections,  requiring
retrospective application to prior-period financial statements of changes in accounting principle,
unless it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect
of the change. SFAS 154 also redefines  restatement  as the revising of previously issued
financial statements to reflect the correction of errors. This statement is effective for us
beginning in October 2006. Although we have no current application for this statement, the
adoption of this statement may affect our future results of operations, financial position or cash
flows.

SFAS 123R (including FSP s) and SAB 107 

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment , replacing and
superseding both SFAS 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , and APB 25,  Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees . SFAS 123R requires fair value measurement and recognition in the
financial statements for all share-based compensation arrangements. SFAS 123R also requires
additional accounting and disclosures related to income tax effects and cash flows resulting from
share-based compensation arrangements.

In March 2005, the SEC issued SAB 107,  Share-Based Payment,  providing interpretive guidance on SFAS
123R valuation methods, assumptions used in valuation models, and the interaction of SFAS 123R with
existing SEC guidance. The additional SAB 107 requirement for the classification of stock
compensation expense to the same financial statement line as cash compensation affected our cost of
product sales and gaming operations, related gross profits and margins, R D, and SG A expenses. We
adopted the provisions of SFAS 123R and SAB 107 in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. See Note 3
for additional information.

2. Balance Sheet Components 

Inventories  

54 

Table of Contents   

Property, Plant and Equipment  

Las Vegas facilities under construction totaled $57.7 million at September 30, 2006 and $25.1
million at September 30, 2005. Interest capitalized during fiscal 2006 totaled $1.3 million and
$0.9 million during fiscal 2005.

During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we listed our facilities in Rapid City, South Dakota for
sale and reclassified them to other assets held for sale. The property sold in September 2006 for
a total gain of $4.4 million. Because we retained 50% use of the property under leaseback
provisions, $2.3 million of the gain is deferred and will be amortized over the 5-year lease. The
net book value of assets held for sale totaled $1.8 million at September 30, 2006.

3. Employee Benefit Plans 

We have established a variety of employee benefit programs to attract, retain and
motivate our employees.

Cash Incentives 

Our profit sharing and 401(k) plan was adopted for US employees. IGT matches 100% of an employee s
contributions up to $750 per year. Participants immediately vest in their contributions and IGT s
matching contributions. Additionally, IGT contributes a portion of profits to eligible employees,
which vest over a seven-year period. Cash sharing is distributed semi-annually to all eligible
employees and management bonuses are paid annually to selected employees.

Our non-qualified deferred compensation plan, implemented in September 1999, provides an unfunded
incentive compensation arrangement for eligible management and highly compensated employees.
Participants may elect to defer up to 50% of their annual earnings with a minimum deferral of
$2,000. Distributions can be paid out as short-term payments or at retirement. Retirement
benefits can be paid out as a lump sum or in annual installments over a term of up to 15 years.

Total annual contributions from operating profits for these plans totaled $88.4 million in
fiscal 2006, $66.7 million in fiscal 2005, and $81.0 million in fiscal 2004.

Share-based Compensation 

Our share-based payment arrangements are designed to attract and retain employees. The amount,
frequency, and terms of share-based awards may vary based on competitive practices, company
operating results, and government regulations. New IGT shares are issued upon option exercise or
restricted share grant. IGT s restricted share awards (referred to in SFAS 123R as non-vested
share awards), are earned over the employee s service (vesting) period, and hold no further
restrictions upon vesting. Unrecognized costs related to all share-based awards outstanding at
September 30, 2006 totaled $74.9 million and are expected to be recognized over a weighted average
period of 2.3 years.

Stock Incentive Plan  

Under the IGT SIP, our eligible employees and non-employee directors may be granted non-qualified
and incentive stock options, restricted shares or stock appreciation rights. SIP grants may vest
over time of service or based on
performance. We generally grant stock options at an exercise price equal to the market price at
the date of grant, with a 10-year contractual term. Our share-based compensation arrangements
typically vest ratably over five years of continuous service. At September 30, 2006, 13.6 million
shares remain available for grant under the IGT SIP. Each restricted share granted counts as four
shares against this allowance.

55 

Table of Contents   

Current year stock options activity as of and for the year ended September 30, 2006  

Current year restricted shares activity as of and for the year ended September 30, 2006  

Employee Stock Purchase Plan  

Under the IGT qualified ESPP, eligible employees are granted an option with a 12-month term to
purchase a limited number of shares, exercisable the last day in February each year. Eligible
employees may participate in this plan through payroll deductions up to certain limits. The
option price is currently equal to 85% of the market price of our stock on the grant date or
exercise date, whichever is less. Approximately 248,000 shares were issued in February 2006 under
this plan. Based on expected payroll contributions as of September 30, 2006, we expect to issue
approximately 231,000 shares in February 2007 under this plan. At September 30, 2006, 3.0 million
shares were available for future grants.

Additionally, eligible UK employees may enroll annually in the Barcrest Savings Related Share
Option Scheme established in January 1999. Employees must elect to vest over three, five, or
seven years and the option price is equal to 80% of the market price of our stock on the grant
date. Approximately 31,000 shares were issued during fiscal 2006 under this plan and
approximately 688,000 shares were available for grant at September 30, 2006. Based on enrollment
through September 2006, we expect to issue approximately 87,000 shares under this plan over the
next seven years.

Option Valuation Assumptions  

56 

Table of Contents   

Reported Share-based Compensation  

Pro Forma Net Income Comparison  

Other Share-based Compensation Information  

4. Acquisitions, Divestitures and Discontinued Operations 

Acquisitions 

We have not provided pro forma financial information for the following acquisitions, as they were
not material to our consolidated results.

WagerWorks 

On August 25, 2005, we completed the acquisition of WagerWorks, a provider of internet gaming
technology, content and services. We anticipate this business combination will facilitate the
distribution of our game content across remote channels and mediums, including the internet and
interactive television. We allocated the aggregate purchase price of $89.1 million to:

tangible assets of $5.6 million, including $1.4 million in cash 

total liabilities of $7.4 million 

identifiable intangibles of $31.1 million, including $10.1 million in patents, $7.0
million in contracts, and $14.0 million in developed technology 

$1.8 million of in-process R D with no future alternative use, charged to R D expense 

$58.0 million in goodwill not deductible for tax purposes 

Acres 

On October 27, 2003, we completed the acquisition of Acres, specializing in the development of
gaming systems technology designed to assist casino operators in increasing patron loyalty. This
business combination enabled us to utilize the Acres gaming systems technology in developing more
integrated gaming systems products. The aggregate purchase price of $134.0 million was allocated
to net tangible assets of $9.7 million, identifiable intangibles and non-deductible goodwill of
$122.5 million, and in-process R D of $1.8 million charged immediately to expense.

57 

Table of Contents   

Divestitures and Discontinued Operations 

Subsequent to the completion of the Anchor acquisition on December 30, 2001, we divested certain
acquired operations inconsistent with IGT s core business strategy. IGT OnLine Entertainment
Systems, Inc. and the lottery systems business of VLC, Inc. were sold in November 2003 for $151.5
million, resulting in a net gain of $56.7 million after tax of $34.1 million. The results of these
discontinued operations during 2004 also provided revenues of $13.6 million and income before tax
of $3.4 million.

5.  
       
      Investment Securities  

Our portfolio of investment securities is available for sale and comprised primarily of
interest bearing auction rate securities. We buy and sell ARS regularly as a means of effective
cash management. Our portfolio included restricted ARS of $64.8 million at September 30, 2006
compared to $63.1 million in restricted ARS and equity securities of $1.2 million at September 30,
2005.

Book value approximates fair value and there were no material unrealized gains or losses at
September 30, 2006 and 2005. We recorded no gains or losses during these years.

6.  
       
      Jackpot Annuity Investments  

Future maturities of these securities through 2031, including the accreted interest at
maturity, totaled:

7.  
       
      Receivables  

Our notes and contracts receivable are presented net of unearned interest income and
deferred loan fees totaling $3.3 million at September 30, 2006 and $4.0 million at September 30,
2005, and net of allowances for doubtful accounts below.

58 

Table of Contents   

Estimated future collections below, as of September 30, 2006 are net of allowances for notes
of $9.9 million and contracts of $29.1 million:

8.  
       
      Concentrations of Credit Risk  

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist
principally of cash or equivalents, short-term investments, and receivables. We place short-term
investments in high credit quality financial institutions or in short duration high quality
securities. With the exception of US Government and Agency securities, our investment policy
limits the amount of credit exposure in any one financial institution, industry group or type of
investment. Cash on deposit may be in excess of Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation limits.

Our revenues and resulting receivables are concentrated in specific legalized gaming regions. We
had no sales to a single customer that exceeded 10% of revenues during 2006, 2005, or 2004. Our
net receivables at September 30, 2006 were concentrated in Nevada 28%, California 9%, Europe 9%,
and all other jurisdictions 5% or less individually 41% in North
America and 13% International.

9.  
       
      Goodwill and Other Intangibles  

Goodwill Activity by Segment  

The tax benefit of Anchor options exercised subsequent to acquisition in the table below was
recorded in accordance with EITF 00-23,  Issues Related to the Accounting for Stock Compensation
under APB 25 and FIN 44 .

59 

Table of Contents   

Intangible Balances  

Intangible Additions  

Patent additions in the following table include capitalized legal costs.

Intangible Amortization  

Aggregate amortization expense totaled $44.6 million in fiscal 2006, $39.4 million in 2005 and
$36.6 million in 2004.

10.  
       
      Credit Facilities and Indebtedness  

Book value approximates fair value for our credit facilities. The aggregate fair value of
our Debentures based on quoted market prices was $854.4 million as of September 30, 2006 and $615.2
million as of September 30, 2005. Future debt obligations totaled $632.4 million, net of unamortized discount of $355.7, due in 2007
and $200.0 million due in 2011. We continue to be in compliance with all applicable covenants at
September 30, 2006.

60 

Table of Contents   

Senior Credit Facility  

On December 20, 2005, we entered into an amended and restated unsecured $2.5 billion credit
facility with a syndicate of banks, replacing the previous credit facility of $1.5 billion. The
new five-year credit facility provides a $2.5 billion revolving line of credit, of which up to
$100.0 million is available for letters of credit and up to $50.0 million is available for
swingline (same day funds) borrowing. Borrowings outstanding totaled $200.0 million at September
30, 2006 and $4.4 million was reserved for letters of credit.

Interest rates and facility fees applicable to the credit facility may fluctuate based on our
public credit ratings and/or debt to capitalization ratio. At September 30, 2006, the interest
rate was LIBOR plus 37.5 bps or 5.66375% with a facility fee of 12.5 bps.

Financial covenants (as defined in the new facility agreement) include a minimum ratio of EBITDA to
interest expense minus interest on jackpot liabilities and a maximum ratio of Debt to EBITDA.
Absence of compliance with required covenants causes an event of default that, if not cured, could
cause the entire outstanding borrowings under the credit facility to become immediately due and
payable.

The new credit facility agreement also includes certain restrictions on our ability to:

incur additional debt, guarantee debt, or enter into swap agreements 

incur liens 

enter into business combinations, liquidate, or dissolve 

sell, transfer, lease or dispose of substantially all assets 

change the nature of the business 

Foreign Credit Facilities  

Our foreign credit facilities totaled $50.0 million at September 30, 2006. Of this amount, $21.3
million was drawn with a weighted average interest rate of 1.52%. Renewals on these facilities
occur annually.

Senior Convertible Debentures  

In a private offering on January 29, 2003 and February 5, 2003, we issued approximately $969.8
million principal amount at maturity of zero-coupon senior convertible debentures (old Debentures)
due January 29, 2033 for gross proceeds of approximately $575.0 million. The old Debentures are
convertible into 21.1704 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount at maturity.

On April 4, 2006, IGT entered into a new indenture as a result of exchanging our old Debentures for
an equal aggregate principal amount at maturity of new Debentures and an exchange fee of $2.51 per
Debenture. In the aggregate, $964.8 million principal amount at maturity, or 99.5%, of the old
Debentures were tendered and accepted for exchange. The terms of the new Debentures are
substantially similar to the old Debentures, except that the new Debentures include a net share
settlement feature requiring us to satisfy our conversion obligation to holders in cash, per the
terms of the indenture, up to the accreted principal amount and in common shares for any remaining
conversion value.

Except for the exchange fee, there is no impact on interest expense as a result of the exchange.
This exchange reduced share dilution associated with the Debentures by enabling us to apply the
treasury stock method rather than the if-converted method for calculating diluted EPS related to
contingently issuable shares.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, approximately 2,900 Debentures were converted,
resulting in 56,000 shares issued and $0.2 million cash paid. The Debentures were classified
in current liabilities at September 30, 2006 and remain convertible through January 16, 2007.

Debenture Terms 

Absent a yield adjustment, the Debentures have a yield to maturity of 1.75%. The yield adjustment
feature may require IGT to pay contingent cash interest on the Debentures at prevailing market
rates to be determined during any six month period commencing on or after January 29, 2006, if the
average closing sale prices of our common stock for specified measurement periods is less than or
equal to 60% of the accreted conversion price of the Debentures during such specified periods.

Holders have the right to require IGT to redeem the Debentures for an amount equal to accreted
value plus accrued and unpaid cash interest, if any, on January 29, 2008, 2013, 2018, 2023 and
2028. IGT may call the Debentures for redemption in cash equal to accreted value plus accrued
and unpaid cash interest, if any. If IGT calls the Debentures, holders will be notified at
least 15 days, but not more than 60 days, prior to the redemption date and will have the right
to convert prior to redemption.

61 

Table of Contents   

The Debentures are convertible under any of the following circumstances:

(i) 
       
     during specified conversion periods, if the closing sales price of our common stock is more
than 120% of the accreted conversion price on the first day of such conversion period for at
least 20 of the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the first day of such conversion period
(for example, the Debentures were convertible during the conversion period beginning July 18,
2006 through October 13, 2006, because the closing price of our common stock was more than
$35.70 per share for at least 20 of the 30 consecutive trading days ending on July 18, 2006) 

(ii) 
       
     during specified periods, if the average trading price for a Debenture is less than 95% of
the average closing sale price of our common stock multiplied by the conversion rate for a
specified period 

(iii) 
       
     during any period that our long term senior debt ratings (or the ratings on the
Debentures, if rated) are reduced to below Ba2 by Moody s and below BB by Standard   Poor s
or our long-term senior debt (or the Debentures, if rated) cease to be rated by both rating
agencies 

(iv) 
       
     the Debentures have been called for redemption 

(v) 
       
     upon the occurrence and continuance of specified corporate transactions 

We may also be required to repurchase the Debentures upon the occurrence of specified change of
control events at the accreted value plus accrued and unpaid cash interest, if any. Upon a change
of control, we may elect to settle the repurchase price in cash or common stock valued at 95% of
its average closing sale price for the five day trading period ending on the third trading day
prior to the repurchase date. Our right to pay the repurchase price for Debentures in common stock
upon a repurchase date or upon a change of control is subject to certain conditions, including the
registration under applicable federal and state securities laws of the shares of common stock to be
issued.

Senior Notes  

In February 2004, we redeemed our $400.0 million senior notes due May 2004. On July 16, 2004, we
redeemed the $569.6 million principal amount outstanding of our 2009 senior notes. We recognized
aggregate losses of $127.9 million on these early debt retirements.

We lease certain of our facilities and equipment under various agreements for periods through
April 2012. The following table shows future minimum payments required under these leases that
have initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms as of September 30, 2006. Certain facility
leases provide that we pay utilities, maintenance, property taxes, and certain other operating
expenses applicable to the leased property, including liability and property damage insurance. For
leased properties no longer in use, we have accrued lease payments, net of anticipated sublease
receipts.

Rental expense in continuing operations totaled $14.3 million for fiscal 2006, $12.7
million for fiscal 2005, and $11.5 million for fiscal 2004. Rental expense in discontinued
operations totaled $520,000 for fiscal 2004.

12.  
       
      Jackpot Liabilities  

62 

Table of Contents   

Foreign Currency Hedging  

Our net foreign currency exposure related to our monetary assets and liabilities totaled $151.0
million at September 30, 2006 and $138.8 million at September 30, 2005. The fair value of foreign
currency contracts hedging this exposure totaled $148.7 million at September 30, 2006 and $126.8
million at September 30, 2005.

Debentures Yield Adjustment  

The yield adjustment feature of our debentures requires contingent cash interest payments that are
triggered by our stock price and is thus considered an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation
under SFAS 133. In anticipation of a potential adjustment, IGT may exercise its redemption right.
Therefore, an investor would be expected to attribute no economic value to the yield adjustment
feature. Accordingly, we have ascribed no value and recorded no derivative asset or liability for
this embedded derivative.

The calculation of diluted EPS from continuing operations below reflects our outstanding old
Debenture shares for all periods presented, in accordance with the adoption of EITF 04-8,  The
Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings per Share,  in our first quarter of
fiscal 2005.

In September 2006, we acquired 3.7 million shares through a structured accelerated share
repurchase for an initial value of $150.0 million or $40.97 per share. The initial price paid
under the accelerated share repurchase agreement was subject to a future purchase price adjustment
based on the weighted average price of our stock through November 3, 2006, subject to a specified
collar. Because our weighted average stock price during the contract period was above the cap
price of $40.97, we settled this transaction in November 2006 with no additional cash or shares
delivered by either party. The results of this transaction are reflected in the treasury stock
component of shareholders equity.

During the third quarter, we prepaid $100.0 million in a structured share repurchase transaction
designed to settle in cash or IGT shares based on the closing stock price on June 29, 2006. Since
the closing price of our stock was above the predetermined threshold price of $35.50 per share, we
received cash of $101.1 million upon settlement in July. In September 2005, we prepaid $74.0
million in a similar structured share repurchase transaction, which resulted in cash received of
$77.8 million because our stock price was above the predetermined threshold price of $27.40 per
share on November 15, 2005. Because these transactions settled in cash, they did not impact
earnings per share.

63 

Table of Contents   

On April 4, 2006, we issued new Debentures to holders who had properly tendered their old
Debentures. This exchange reduced share dilution associated with the Debentures by enabling us to
apply the treasury stock method for calculating diluted EPS related to contingently issuable
shares. See Note 10 for additional information about the exchange.

There were no transactions from the end of fiscal 2006 through December 8, 2006 that would have
materially changed the number of basic or diluted shares outstanding.

Litigation 

IGT has been named in and has brought lawsuits in the normal course of business. We do not expect
the outcome of these suits, including the lawsuits described below, to have a material adverse
effect on our financial position or results of future operations .

Bally 

On December 7, 2004, IGT filed a complaint in US District Court for the District of Nevada,
alleging that defendants Alliance Gaming Corp., Bally Gaming Int l, Inc., and Bally Gaming, Inc.
infringed six US patents held by IGT, US Patent numbers 6,827,646; 5,848,932; 5,788,573; 5,722,891;
6,712,698; and 6,722,985. On January 21, 2005, defendants filed an answer denying the allegations
in the complaint and raising various affirmative defenses to IGT s asserted claims. Defendants
also asserted fourteen counterclaims against IGT, including counterclaims for a declaratory
judgment of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of the asserted patents, and for
antitrust violations and intentional interference with prospective business advantage. IGT denies
these allegations and discovery is ongoing.

On April 28, 2006, IGT filed a complaint in US District Court for the District of Delaware,
alleging that defendants Bally Technologies, Inc., Bally Gaming Int l, Inc., and Bally Gaming,
Inc. infringed nine US patents held by IGT, US Patent numbers RE 38,812; RE 37,885; 6,832,958;
6,319,125; 6,244,958; 6,431,983; 6,607,441; 6,565,434; and 6,620,046. The complaint alleges
that the  BALLY POWER BONUSING   technology infringes one or more of the claims of the asserted
IGT patents. The lawsuit seeks monetary damages and an injunction. On June 30, 2006,
defendants filed an answer denying the allegations in the complaint and raising various
affirmative defenses to IGT s asserted claims. Defendants also asserted twelve counterclaims
against IGT, including counterclaims for a declaratory judgment of non-infringement,
invalidity, unenforceability of the asserted patents, antitrust violations, unfair competition,
and intentional interference with prospective business advantage. IGT denies these
allegations, and discovery is ongoing.

On September 5, 2006, Bally filed a complaint in US District Court for the District of Nevada
alleging that IGT is infringing US Patent No. 7,100,916, entitled  Indicator Wheel System. 
The products named in the Complaint are IGT s gaming machines with  wheel  features, including,
without limitation,  Wheel of Fortune   , Wheel of Gold , The Addams Family , American Bandstand ,
The Apprentice , Dilbert Wheelbert , Drew Carey Great Balls of Cash , Elvira   , I Dream of
Jeannie   , I Love Lucy   , Indiana Jones: Raiders of the Lost Ark , M*A*S*H* , Megabucks with
Morgan Fairchild   , Regis On the Town , Sinatra  and Twilight Zone     gaming machines. The
lawsuit seeks unspecified monetary damages and an injunction. On October 6, 2006, IGT filed an
answer and counterclaims denying infringement and seeking a declaration that the patent is
invalid and non-infringed. IGT intends to vigorously defend this lawsuit. Discovery is
ongoing.

Aristocrat 

On June 30, 2005, Aristocrat Technologies Australia PTY Ltd. filed a patent infringement lawsuit
against IGT. The Complaint was served on IGT on December 13, 2005. Aristocrat alleges that IGT
has willfully infringed US Patent No. 6,093,102. Aristocrat contends that the patent covers its
Reel Power    video slot technology and IGT s  Multiway     video slot games. The lawsuit seeks
unspecified damages and an injunction. IGT believes that the patent is invalid and not infringed
and intends to vigorously defend the lawsuit. On January 13, 2006, Aristocrat filed a First
Amended Complaint adding Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. as a plaintiff. On January 19, 2006, IGT
filed its Answer to the First Amended Complaint.

On June 12, 2006, Aristocrat Technologies Australia PTY Ltd. and Aristocrat Technologies, Inc.
filed a patent infringement lawsuit against IGT. Aristocrat alleges that IGT has willfully
infringed US Patent No. 7,056,215, which issued on June 6, 2006. The IGT products named in the
complaint are the  Fort Knox     mystery progressive slot machines. IGT believes that the patent is
invalid and not infringed and intends to vigorously defend the lawsuit.

64 

Table of Contents   

Brochu v. Loto Quebec 

Loto Quebec commenced an action in warranty against VLC, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of IGT,
and another manufacturer of video lottery machines in October 2003, in the Superior Court of the
Province of Quebec, District of Quebec, seeking indemnification for any damages that may be
awarded against Loto Quebec in a class action suit, also filed in the Superior Court of the
Province of Quebec. The class action against Loto Quebec, to which neither IGT nor any of its
affiliates are parties, was filed by Jean Brochu on behalf of himself and a class of other
persons who allegedly developed pathological behaviors through the play of video lottery machines
made available by Loto Quebec in taverns and other public locations. In this action, plaintiff
seeks to recover on behalf of the class damages of approximately CAD$578.7 million, representing
CAD$4,863 per class member, and CAD$119.0 million in punitive damages. Loto Quebec filed its
Plea in Defense in the main action in February 2006. VLC filed its Plea in Defense in the
warranty action in April 2006. The Court has scheduled trial of the entire action against Loto
Quebec to commence in mid-2007.

Environmental Matters 

CCSC, a casino operation sold by IGT in April 2003, is located in an area that has been
designated by the EPA as a superfund site as a result of contamination from historic mining
activity in the area. The EPA is entitled to proceed against current and prior owners and
operators of properties located within the site for remediation and response costs associated
with their properties and with the entire site. CCSC is located within the drainage basin of
North Clear Creek, Colorado and is therefore subjected to potentially contaminated surface and
ground water from upstream mining related sources. Soil and ground water samples on the site
indicate that several contaminants exist in concentrations exceeding drinking water standards.
We have applied the guidance in Statement of Position 96-1  Environmental Remediation
Liabilities  and determined that a liability has not yet been incurred.

Miller 

In June 2003, a class action lawsuit was filed in Clark County, Nevada, District Court against
Acres and its directors, entitled Paul Miller v. Acres Gaming Incorporated, et al. The complaint
alleged that Acres directors breached their fiduciary duties to their stockholders in connection
with the approval of the merger transaction between Acres and IGT and sought to enjoin and/or
void the merger agreement among other forms of relief. On September 19, 2003, the Court denied
plaintiff s motion for a TRO to prevent Acres stockholders from voting on the merger. On
September 24, 2003, plaintiff petitioned the Nevada Supreme Court to vacate the denial of the TRO
and to enjoin Acres from holding its stockholder vote on the merger. The Nevada Supreme Court
denied the petition on September 25, 2003. The plaintiff s action also seeks damages. On
December 23, 2003, defendants filed a motion to dismiss plaintiff s second amended complaint for
failure to state a claim on which relief may be granted. On April 29, 2004, the Court issued a
ruling denying defendants  motion to dismiss the second amended complaint. On May 12, 2004, the
Court issued an order denying defendants  motion to dismiss. Pursuant to stipulation of the
parties on August 13, 2004, plaintiff filed a third amended complaint. The Court denied
defendants  motion to dismiss the third amended complaint. On April 7, 2006 defendant filed a
Notice of Removal to United States District Court, D. Nev. (Las Vegas). Plaintiff sought to
remand this action to state court, which was granted in August 2006.

Nevada Sales   Use Tax / Wrongful Termination Matter 

In February 2003, an IGT employee, subsequently placed on administrative leave, filed a complaint
under Nevada s False Claims Act (State of Nevada ex rel. James McAndrews v. International Game
Technology, Anchor Coin and  Spin for Cash     Wide Area Progressive) alleging that IGT failed to
pay requisite Nevada sales/use taxes on certain  Wheel of Fortune     games placed in Nevada since
1997 and in connection with royalties received under intellectual property licensing agreements
related to the placement of Action Gaming games in Nevada since 1997.

In February 2006, the Nevada Supreme Court ordered the case dismissed and in March 2006, the
trial court entered an order of dismissal. McAndrews, no longer an IGT employee, filed a
separate complaint alleging employment retaliation in June 2006.

In October 2004 and again in July 2005, NDT advised us that we had a good-faith legal basis for our
position that no sales tax was payable on royalties received, but that NDT believed that sales tax
may be payable on some amount of the royalties. We disagreed with NDT s position that sales tax may
be payable on any part of the royalties. In February 2006, the audit of our sales/use tax returns
by NDT for the years April 2000 through March 2003 was completed, and the resulting audit
assessment was immaterial to our operating results, financial position or cash flows.

65 

Table of Contents   

OSHA / Wrongful Termination Matter 

On July 8, 2004, two former employees filed a complaint with the US Department of Labor, OSHA,
alleging retaliatory termination in violation of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The former
employees allege that they were terminated in retaliation for questioning whether Anchor and its
executives failed to properly disclose information allegedly affecting the value of Anchor s
patents in connection with IGT s acquisition of Anchor in 2001. The former employees also allege
that the acquired patents are overvalued on the financial statements of IGT. Outside counsel,
retained by an independent committee of our Board of Directors, reviewed the allegations and found
them to be entirely without merit.

On November 10, 2004, the employees withdrew their complaint filed with OSHA and filed a notice of
intent to file a complaint in federal court. On December 1, 2004, a complaint was filed under seal
in the US District Court for Nevada. IGT filed a motion to dismiss the complaint in December 2004.
The court denied the motion on May 2, 2005. IGT appealed this denial to the US Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals denied our appeal in March 2006.
Discovery is ongoing. IGT believes that the allegations are without merit and intends to
vigorously defend this matter.

In the purchase price allocation, IGT used the relief of royalty valuation methodology to estimate
the fair value of the patents at $164.4 million, which is being amortized over the useful economic
life. The carrying value of the patents at September 30, 2006 totaled $95.5 million, with a
remaining life of approximately 10 years.

Poulos 

Along with a number of other public gaming corporations, IGT was a defendant in three class action
lawsuits, later consolidated into a single action. Plaintiffs alleged that the defendants engaged
in fraudulent and misleading conduct by inducing people to play video poker machines and electronic
slot machines, based on false beliefs concerning how the machines operate and the extent to which
there is an opportunity to win on a given play. The amended complaint alleges that the defendants 
acts constituted violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, giving rise
to claims for common law fraud and unjust enrichment, and seeks compensatory, special, incidental
and punitive damages of several billion dollars.

In December 1997, the Court denied the motions that would have dismissed the Consolidated Amended
Complaint or that would have stayed the action pending Nevada gaming regulatory action. In June
2002, the Court denied the plaintiffs  motion for class certification. An appeal of that denial
was filed timely with the US Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. On August 10, 2004, the Ninth
Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the US District court s denial of class certification. The class
plaintiffs did not appeal the decision and proceeded with only their individual claims. Prior to
the scheduled trial date on September 7, 2005, the US District Court of Nevada granted the
defendants  pending motions for summary judgment. The plaintiffs timely filed a Notice of Appeal
to the US Ninth Circuit Court. In June 2006, all parties stipulated to dismiss, with prejudice,
this appeal.

Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risks 

In the normal course of business, we are party to financial instruments with off-balance sheet
risk, such as performance bonds, guarantees and product warranties not reflected in our balance
sheet. We do not expect any material losses to result from these arrangements, and we are not
dependent on off-balance sheet financing arrangements to fund our operations.

Performance Bonds 

Performance bonds outstanding related to gaming operations totaled $29.7 million at September 30,
2006. We are liable to reimburse the bond issuer in the event of exercise due to nonperformance.

Letters of Credit 

Outstanding letters of credit issued under our line of credit to ensure payment to certain vendors
and governmental agencies totaled $4.4 million at September 30, 2006.

IGT Licensor Arrangements 

Our sales agreements that include software and intellectual property licensing arrangements may
provide a clause whereby IGT indemnifies the third party licensee against liability and damages
(including legal defense costs) arising from any claims of patent, copyright, trademark or trade
secret infringement. Should such a claim occur, we could be required to make payments to the
licensee for any liabilities or damages incurred. Historically, we have not incurred any
significant costs due to infringement claims. As we consider the likelihood of recurring future
costs to be remote, no liability has been recorded.

66 

Table of Contents   

Product Warranties 

Our warranty costs in the table below are accrued based on historical trends in product failure
rates and expected costs to provide warranty services. We typically provide 90-day product
warranties and up to one year for certain products and jurisdictions.

Self-Insurance 

We are self-insured for various levels of workers  compensation, directors  and officers 
liability, electronic errors and omissions liability, as well as employee medical, dental,
prescription drug, and disability coverage. We purchase stop loss coverage to protect against
unexpected claims. Accrued insurance claims and reserves include estimated settlements for known
claims, and actuarial estimates of claims incurred but not reported.

State and Federal Taxes 

We are subject to sales, use, income and other tax audits and administrative proceedings in various
federal, state, and local jurisdictions. While we believe we have properly reported our tax
liabilities in each jurisdiction, we can give no assurance that taxing authorities will not propose
adjustments that increase our tax liabilities.

Income from continuing operations before tax consisted of:

The effective income tax rates differ from statutory US federal income tax rates as
follows:

Components of our provision for income taxes on income from continuing operations:

67 

Table of Contents   

Significant components of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities are presented in
the table below.

Our U.S. net operating loss carry forwards in the amount of $56.1 million at September
30, 2006, will expire in tax years ending 2018 through 2024. The valuation allowance relates
to net operating losses and deferred tax assets from our operations in Australia. We have not
recognized potential tax benefits, as we currently consider it unlikely these benefits will be
realized.

We have not provided for US deferred income taxes or foreign withholding taxes on approximately
$92.6 million in cumulative undistributed earnings of certain non-US subsidiaries as of September
30, 2006, which we expect to be permanently reinvested in operations outside the US.

17. Related Party Transactions 

During fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, two IGT board members were also board members for certain
IGT customers. During fiscal 2004, a member of our board was also a partner in a law firm that we
retained as outside counsel. We continue to place gaming products under revenue sharing or joint
venture arrangements in alliance with various gaming companies and design games under expense
sharing arrangements with certain distributors.

Transactions recorded with related parties included:

68 

Table of Contents   

We view our business in two regional operating segments, each incorporating all types of revenues:

North America includes our operations in the US and Canada 

International encompasses our efforts in Asia, Australia, New Zealand,
Europe, Japan, Latin America, Russia, South Africa, and the UK. 

Additionally, certain income and expenses related to company-wide initiatives are managed at the
corporate level and not allocated to any operating segment.

Our business segments are designed to allocate resources within a framework of management
responsibility. Operating costs from one segment may benefit other segments. We continually
evaluate the alignment of our business development and administrative functions for reporting
purposes, which may result in changes to segment allocations. Prior year amounts are reclassified
to conform to the current management view and presentation. We do not recognize inter-company
revenues or expenses upon the transfer of gaming products between our operating segments. North
America includes revenues from Canada totaling $127.5 million in fiscal 2006, $84.0 million in 2005
and $137.2 million in 2004. IGT s segment profit reflects income before tax.

69 

Table of Contents   

19.  
       
      Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)  

70 

Table of Contents   

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants 

None

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance
that information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms, and that
such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management
recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide
only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily
is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls
and procedures.

As of the end of the period covered by this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the
supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures. Based on the foregoing, our Chief Executive Officer and the Chief
Financial Officer concluded that IGT s disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the
reasonable assurance level.

Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

Internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the
Exchange Act) refers to the process designed by, or under the supervision of, our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and effected by our board of directors, management and other
personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over our financial reporting.

We have evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of
September 30, 2006.
This evaluation was performed using the  Internal Control   Evaluation Framework  developed by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on such evaluation,
management has concluded that, as of such date, our internal control over financial reporting was
effective.

The attestation report issued by Deloitte   Touche LLP on management s assessment of internal
control over financial reporting follows below Item 9A.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting during our most recent
fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting.

71 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Stockholders and Board of Directors 
International Game Technology 
Reno, Nevada:

We have audited management s assessment, included in the accompanying Management s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that International Game Technology and subsidiaries (the
 Company ) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006,
based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on management s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the
supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and
other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to
error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management s assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on
the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30,
2006, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended September
30, 2006 of the Company and our report dated December 11, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on
those financial statements and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company s adoption
of SFAS 123R,  Share-Based Payment .

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP

Los Angeles, California 
December 11, 2006

72 

Table of Contents   

Item 9B. Other Information 

None

Part III 

The information required by Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14, except as provided below, is
incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the
end of the fiscal year covered by this report.

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

We have adopted the International Game Technology Code of Ethics for Executive and Financial
Officers (the  finance code of ethics ), a code of ethics that applies to our Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Controller and other finance organization employees.
The finance code of ethics is publicly available on our website at www.IGT.com. If we make any
substantive amendments to the finance code of ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit
waiver, from a provision of the code to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or
Corporate Controller, we will disclose the nature of such amendment or waiver on that website.

Item 11. Executive Compensation 

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

Equity compensation plans approved and not approved by shareholders as of September 30,
2006:

Number of securities  

Number of securities to  

Weighted average  

remaining available for  

be issued upon exercise  

exercise price of  

future issuance under  

of outstanding options,  

outstanding options  

equity compensation  

Plan category  
       
      warrants and rights  

warrants and rights  

plans  

(In millions, except per share amounts)  

Equity compensation plans
approved by shareholders  (1) 

19.1 

$ 
     24.28 

16.6 

Equity compensation plans
not approved by shareholders (2) 

0.1 

$ 
     28.27 

0.7 

Total

19.2 

$ 
     24.30 

17.3 

(1)  
       
     Includes shares under the International Game Technology Stock Incentive Plan
and Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan. ESPP shares are not included in securities to
be issued until exercised each year in February. 

(2)  
       
     Includes shares available under the Barcrest Savings Related Share Option
Scheme, a broad-based UK employee stock purchase program established in January 1999 to
satisfy certain UK tax requirements. This program is generally intended to provide UK
employees the same benefits available under the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Shareholder
approval was not required for this plan. 

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

73 

Table of Contents   

Part IV 

Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

74 

Table of Contents   

10.11*

Employment Agreement with Thomas J. Matthews, Chief Executive Officer, President, and Chief
Operating Officer dated October 27, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to
Registrant s Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003) 

10.12*

Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement with Thomas J. Matthews, Chief Executive Officer,
President, and Chief Operating Officer dated September 29, 2006 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant s Report on Form 8-K filed October 4, 2006) 

10.13*

Restricted Stock Award Agreement with Thomas J. Matthews, Chief Executive Officer,
President, and Chief Operating Officer dated September 29, 2006 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant s Report on Form 8-K filed October 4, 2006) 

10.14*

Performance Share Award Agreement with Thomas J. Matthews, Chief Executive Officer,
President, and Chief Operating Officer dated September 29, 2006 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant s Report on Form 8-K filed October 4, 2006) 

10.15*

IGT 2002 Stock Incentive Plan Agreement Forms: Director Stock Option Agreement; Incentive
Stock Option Agreement; Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement; Restricted Stock Award Agreement;
UK Stock Option Sub-Plan ( the UK Sub-Plan ) Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.17 to Registrant s Report on form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2004) 

10.16*

International Game Technology Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended and restated effective
as of December 8, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant s Report on
Form 8-K filed March 13, 2006) 

10.17*

Summary of IGT Management Bonus Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to
Registrant s Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2004) 

10.18*

Summary of Named Executive Officer Compensation Arrangements (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006) 

10.19

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated July 26, 2005, by and among International Game
Technology, and Winter Subsidiary, Inc., and WagerWorks, Inc., and Carl Berg and DDJ Capital
Management, LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to Registrant s Report on Form
10-K for the year ended September 30, 2005) 

10.20

Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2005, with Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. as Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A. as Syndication Agent, The Royal Bank of
Scotland PLC, Wachovia Bank, National Association, and Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. as
Co-Documentation Agents, and Banc of America Securities LLC, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and The
Royal Bank of Scotland PLC as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Managers, and a syndicate of
other lenders (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant s Report on Form 8-K
filed December 22, 2005) 

21

Subsidiaries 

23

Independent Auditors  Consent 

24

Power of Attorney (see next page) 

31.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a   14(a) of the Exchange Act, as
adopted pursuant to section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

31.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a   14(a) of the Exchange Act, as
adopted pursuant to section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

32.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a   14(b) of the Exchange Act and
section 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002 

32.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a   14(b) of the Exchange Act and
section 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002 

* 
       
     Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 

75 

Table of Contents   

Power of Attorney Signatures 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, on the 12 th  day of December 2006.

International Game Technology 

By:   
     /s/ Maureen T. Mullarkey

Maureen T. Mullarkey  

Executive Vice President, 
Chief Financial Officer, 
Treasurer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

Each person whose signature appears below hereby authorizes Thomas J. Matthews and Maureen T.
Mullarkey, or either of them, as attorneys-in-fact to sign on their behalf, individually, and in
each capacity stated below, and to file all amendments and/or supplements to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Signature  
       
      Title  
       
      Date  

/s/ Thomas J. Matthews

Thomas J. Matthews

Chairman of the Board of Directors
and Chief Executive Officer

December 12, 2006 

/s/ Maureen T. Mullarkey

Maureen T. Mullarkey

Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice
President, Finance (Principal Financial
and Accounting Officer) and Treasurer

December 12, 2006 

/s/ Neil Barsky

Neil Barsky

Director 

December 12, 2006 

/s/ Robert A. Bittman

Robert A. Bittman

Director 

December 12, 2006 

/s/ Richard Burt

Richard Burt

Director 

December 12, 2006 

/s/ Patti Hart

Patti Hart

Director 

December 12, 2006 

/s/ Leslie Heisz

Leslie Heisz

Director 

December 12, 2006 

/s/ Robert A. Mathewson

Robert A. Mathewson

Director 

December 12, 2006 

/s/ Robert Miller

Robert Miller

Director 

December 12, 2006 

/s/ Frederick Rentschler

Frederick Rentschler

Director 

December 12, 2006 

76 

Table of Contents   

* 
       
     Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 

77 

<EX-3.1>
 2
 a25752exv3w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 3.1

exv3w1 

EXHIBIT 3.1

ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION

OF

INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY

The undersigned individuals acting as incorporators of a
corporation (the  Corporation ) under the provisions of Chapter 78
of the Nevada Revised Statutes adopt the following Articles of
Incorporation.

ARTICLE I 
Name

The name of the Corporation is INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY.

ARTICLE II 
Principal Office and Initial Resident Agent

A. Principal Office. The address of the principal office of
the Corporation is Suite 110, 777 West Second Street, Reno, Nevada.
The Corporation may conduct all or part of its business in any
other part of the State of Nevada.

B. Resident Agent. The resident agent of the Corporation is
Roger H. Elton, located at Suite 110, 777 West Second Street, Reno,
Nevada.

ARTICLE III 
Nature of Business

The Corporation may engage in any lawful activity.

ARTICLE IV 
Capital

A. Number and Par Value of Shares. The Corporation shall be
authorized to issue Twenty Million (20,000,000) shares of capital
stock with a par value of One Cent ($.01) per share. All of the
shares of stock shall be the same class, without preference or
distinction.

B. Assessment of Shares. The capital stock of the
Corporation, after the amount of the par value has been paid in
money, property, or services, as the Directors shall determine,
shall not be subject to assessment to pay the debts of the
Corporation, nor for any other purpose, and no stock issued as
fully paid shall ever be assessable or assessed, and the Articles
of Incorporation shall not be amended in this respect.

ARTICLE V 
Governing Board

A. Name. The members of the governing board of the
Corporation shall be designated as Directors.

B. Initial Board of Directors. The initial number of Board
of Directors shall consist of three (3) members. The names and
addresses of the members of the initial Board of Directors are as
follows. These individuals shall serve as Directors until the
first annual meeting of the shareholders, or until their successors
shall have been elected and qualified.

C. Increase or Decrease of Directors. The number of
Directors of the Corporation may be increased or decreased from
time to time by amendment to the bylaws of the Corporation;
provided, however, that the Board shall consist of less than three
(3) members only if all of the shares of capital stock of the
Corporation are owned beneficially and of record by less than three
(3) shareholders, in which case the number of Directors may be less
than three (3), but not less than the number of beneficial and
record owners of shares.

ARTICLE VI 
Names and Addresses of Incorporators

The names and post offices addresses of each of the
incorporators signing these Articles of Incorporation are as 
follows:

ARTICLE VII 
Period of Existence

The period of existence of the Corporation is perpetual.

DATED: December 22, 1980.

/s/ Laurie W. Schwager

Laurie W. Schwager  

/s/ Janice A. Gnos

Janice A. Gnos  

/s/ Jill Burns

Jill Burns  

CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT 
OF 
ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION

The undersigned, being the President and Secretary,
respectively, of International Game Technology, a Nevada 
corporation, certify as follows:

1. That the Board of Directors of the Corporation, at a
meeting duly held on July 22, 1981, adopted and consented to the
adoption of certain resolutions calling for the amendment of the
Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation as hereinafter set
forth, declaring the advisability of such amendment, and calling a
meeting of the shareholders for the purpose of considering such
amendment, unless the shareholders shall have earlier adopted and
consented to the adoption of such amendment as provided in NRS
78.320.

2. That said resolution of the Board of Directors called for
the amendment of Article IV of the Articles of Incorporation to add
thereto Section C which, in its entirely, reads as follows:

C. Denial of Pre-Emptive Rights: No
shareholders of any of the capital stock of
the corporation shall, by virtue of his status
as such, have any right to acquire any
additional shares. This section is intended
to, and shall, act as a denial of any pre-
emptive right afforded by Section 78.265 of
the Nevada Revised Statues, or any successor
statute.

3. That all of the shareholders of the Corporation, by
Resolution at a meeting duly held July 23, 1981, did approve, adopt
and consent to the adoption of said amendment.

4. That this certificate is made pursuant to NRS 78.390 and
with the intent to amend the Articles of Incorporation of the
Corporation in the manner set forth above.

DATED this 23rd day of July, 1981.

/s/ J. George Drews, President

/s/ Raymond D. Pike, Secretary

CERTIFICATE OF REDUCTION OF CAPITAL

THE UNDERSIGNED HEREBY CERTIFY individually and on behalf of

International Game Technology, a Nevada Corporation (the
 Company ), that they are the President and Secretary of the
company and the following is a true and correct copy of resolution
to reduce the stated capital of the Company duly adopted by the
Board of Directors of the Company on December 16, 1986.

WHEREAS, the Company currently has 8,109,887 shares of common
stock, par value $.01 issued and outstanding and the stated
capital of the Company is $81,098.87; and 

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company deems it
advisable and in the best interest of the Company to purchase
a part of the outstanding shares of common stock of the
Company and to reduce the stated capital of the Company. 

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Company be, and it
hereby is, authorized to purchase 2,168,020 shares of issued
and outstanding common stock of the Company from William S.
Redd at a price of $10.50 per share, and 1,014,830 shares from
the Ivy Lee Redd Testamentary Trust at a price of $10.00 per
share (collectively the  Repurchased Shares ) for a total
purchase price of $32,912,510 (the  Purchase Price ). Upon
purchase of the Repurchased Shares the stated capital of the
Company shall be reduced from said $81,098.87 to $49,270.37;
and 

RESOLVED, that the Secretary of the Company is hereby directed
to cancel the certificates representing the Repurchased
Shares. Upon purchase by the Company the Repurchased Shares
shall have the status of authorized but unissued stock; and 

RESOLVED, that the Company be, and it hereby is, authorized to
execute promissory notes (the  Notes ) in the amount of the
Purchase Price, in favor of William S. Redd and the Ivy Lee
Redd Testamentary Trust; and 

RESOLVED, that the President of the Company be and hereby is
authorized to effect purchase of the Repurchased Shares and
execute the Notes and the President or Vice-President and
Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Company be and they
hereby are directed and authorized to make, execute,
acknowledge, deliver and file a certificate of reduction of
capital setting forth this resolution with the Secretary of
State of Nevada and the Clerk of Washoe County, Nevada. 

The reduction of capital as provided herein was made without
the requirement of any vote or consent of stockholders pursuant to Nev. Rev. State. S78.420.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this
Certificate as of this 17th day of March, 1987.

/s/ Charles N. Mathewson, President

/s/ Raymond D. Pike, Secretary 

CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION OF SHARES 
OF 
INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY

International Game Technology, a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Nevada, in compliance with
Section 78.207 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, by its President and
Secretary, does hereby certify:

1. That International Game Technology desires to divide each
of the shares of the capital stock of the corporation into two
shares, to be effective upon the filing of this Certificate with
the office of the Secretary of State of Nevada.

2. That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of this
corporation duly convened at 520 South Rock Boulevard, Reno,
Nevada, on the 20th day of June, 1990, a resolution was duly
adopted by a majority vote of the duly elected directors of the
corporation authorizing the referenced stock split.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the corporation has caused this
certificate to be signed by its President and Secretary, and its 
corporate seal to be affixed this 6th day of July, 1990.

INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY 

By:   
     /s/ John J. Russell

John J. Russell, President  

By:   
          /s/ Raymond D. Pike

Raymond D. Pike, Secretary  

CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT 
OF ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION 
INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY

International Game Technology, a corporation organized under
and existing by virtue of the laws of the State of Nevada does
hereby certify:

FIRST: The Following resolution was unanimously adopted on
November 11, 1987 by all of the members of the Board of Directors
of the corporation lawfully and duly held that day pursuant to the
Bylaws of the Corporation:

RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors does hereby propose
that ARTICLE V of the Articles of Incorporation of the
Corporation be amended to add thereto the following
provision: 

D. Indemnification of Directors and
Officers. To the fullest extent permitted by
the Law of the State of Nevada as the same
exists or may hereafter be amended, a director
or an officer of the Corporation shall not be
personally liable to the Corporation or its
Stockholders for monetary damages for breach
of fiduciary duty as a director or an officer.
Any repeal or modification of this Section
shall not result in any liability for a
director or officer with respect to any action
or omission occurring prior to such repeal or
modification.

SECOND: The shareholders of the Corporation at a meeting duly
and regularly held pursuant to the Bylaws of the Corporation on
February 16, 1988, ratified, adopted and approved the following
resolution:

RESOLVED, that the Articles of Incorporation of the
Corporation be amended to eliminate the personal
liability of directors and officers as permitted by
Nevada law. 

THIRD: Of the 5,115,303 shares of the Corporation entitled to
vote at the meeting, there were 3,884,213 present in person or
represented by proxy. Of the 3,884,213 of the shares represented
at the meeting, 3,611,794 (or 70.6%) voted in favor of adopting the
foregoing resolution.

Dated: April 24, 1991

INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY 

By:   
     /s/ John J. Russell

John J. Russell, President  

CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION OF SHARES 
OF 
INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY

International Game Technology, a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Nevada, in compliance with
Section 78.207 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, by its President and
Secretary, does hereby certify:

1. That International Game Technology desires to divide each
of the shares of the capital stock of the corporation into two
shares, to be effective upon the filing of this Certificate with
the office of the Secretary of State of Nevada.

2. That the referenced stock split will result in eighty
million (80,000,000) shares of authorized capital stock of the
corporation with a par value of $.0025 per share.

3. That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of this
corporation duly convened on the 19th day of July, 1991, a
resolution was duly adopted by a unanimous vote of all of the duly
elected directors of the corporation authorizing the referenced
stock split.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the corporation has caused this
certificate to be signed by its President and Secretary, and its
corporate seal to be affixed this 9th day of August, 1991.

INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY 

By:   
     /s/ John J. Russell

John J. Russell, President  

By:   
          /s/ Raymond D. Pike

Raymond D. Pike, Secretary  

CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION OF SHARES 
OF 
INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY

International Game Technology, a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Nevada, in compliance with
Section 78.207 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, by its President and
Secretary, does hereby certify:

1. That International Game Technology desires to divide each
of the shares of the capital stock of the corporation into two
shares, to be effective upon the filing of this Certificate with
the office of the Secretary of State of Nevada.

2. That the referenced stock split will result in one
hundred sixty million (160,000,000) shares of authorized capital 
stock of the corporation with a par value of $.00125 per share.

3. That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of this
corporation duly convened on the 25th day of February, 1992, a
resolution was duly adopted by a unanimous vote of all of the duly
elected directors of the corporation authorizing the referenced
stock split.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the corporation has caused this
certificate to be signed by its President and Secretary, and its 
corporate seal to be affixed this 10th day of March, 1992.

INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY 

By:   
     /s/ G. Thomas Baker

G. Thomas Baker,  

Vice President of Finance,
Chief Financial Officer,
Treasurer  

By:   
          /s/ Raymond D. Pike

Raymond D. Pike, Secretary  

CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION OF SHARES 
OF 
INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY

International Game Technology, a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Nevada, in compliance with
Section 78.207 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, by its President and
Secretary, does hereby certify:

1. That International Game Technology desires to divide each
of the shares of the capital stock of the corporation into two
shares, to be effective upon the filing of this Certificate with
the office of the Secretary of State of Nevada.

2. That the referenced stock split will result in three
hundred twenty million (320,000,000) shares of authorized capital 
stock of the corporation with a par value of $.000625 per share.

3. That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of this
corporation duly convened on the 23th day of February, 1993, a
resolution was duly adopted by a unanimous vote of all of the duly
elected directors of the corporation authorizing the referenced
stock split.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the corporation has caused this
certificate to be signed by its President and Secretary, and its 
corporate seal to be affixed this 5th day of March, 1993.

INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY 

By:   
     /s/ G. Thomas Baker

G. Thomas Baker,  

Vice President of Finance,
Chief Financial Officer,
Treasurer  

By:   
          /s/ Raymond D. Pike

Raymond D. Pike, Secretary  

CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION OF SHARES 
OF 
INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY

International Game Technology, a corporation organized and existing under the
laws of the State of Nevada, in compliance with Section 78.207 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes ( NRS ), by its President and Secretary, does hereby certify:

1. That International Game Technology desires to divide each of the shares of
the capital stock of the corporation into four (4) shares, to be effective upon the
filing of this Certificate with the office of the Secretary of State of Nevada.

2. That the current number of authorized shares of capital stock of the
corporation is three hundred twenty million (320,000,000) with a par value of
$.000625 per share.

3. That the referenced stock split will result in one billion two hundred eighty
million (1,280,000,000) shares of authorized capital stock of the corporation with a
par value of $.00015625 per share.

4. That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of this corporation duly convened
on the 3rd day of June, 2003, a resolution was duly adopted by a unanimous vote of
all of the duly elected directors of the corporation authorizing the referenced stock
split.

5. That no stockholder approval was required pursuant to Section 78.207 of the
NRS because the corporation changed the number of shares of its authorized capital
stock and correspondingly increased the number of issued and outstanding shares of
capital stock held by each stockholder of record at the effective date and time of
the change.

6. That each stockholder of record on the date of filing of this Certificate
with the office of the Secretary of State of Nevada holding any outstanding shares of
the corporation is entitled to receive a stock certificate or certificates to
evidence and represent the additional shares of capital stock to which such person is
entitled by reason of the referenced stock split on the basis of three (3) additional
            shares for each share so held of record.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the corporation has caused this Certificate to be signed by
its President and Secretary, and its corporate seal to be affixed this 16th day of
June, 2003.

INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY 

By:   
     /s/ G. Thomas Baker

G. Thomas Baker  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

By:   
             /s/ Sara Beth Brown

Sara Beth Brown  

Secretary  

</EX-3.1>

<EX-10.8>
 3
 a25752exv10w8.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.8

exv10w8 

EXHIBIT 10.8 

Amendments to IGT Profit Sharing Plan dated  July 14, 2003 and November 15, 2005

EXHIBIT A 

AMENDMENT 2003-I 
IGT PROFIT SHARING PLAN 

WHEREAS,  International Game Technology, a Nevada corporation (the  Company ), maintains the
IGT Profit Sharing Plan, as amended (the  Plan  and

WHEREAS,  the Company s Profit Sharing Plan Committee has the right to amend the Plan, has
approved the Plan amendment set forth below, and has instructed the undersigned duly authorized
officer of the Company to execute this document to conclusively evidence the approval and adoption
of such amendment;

NOW, THEREFORE,  Section 2.1 of the Plan is hereby amended in its entirety, effective as
of August 1, 2003, to read as follows:

2.1 Eligibility Requirements. 

(a) Provided he is then an Eligible Employee and has attained age 18, each
Eligible Employee shall become a Participant in the Plan on the first day of the first
payroll period coinciding with or next following the earlier of (1) his completion of one
Year of Eligibility Service or (2) his completion of 30 days of continuous employment as a
full-time Employee.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), an Eligible Employee may not participate
with respect to allocations of Employer Contributions under Section 3.1 until the
January 1 of the Plan Year in which the later of the following occurs:

(1) his completion of one Year of Eligibility Service,

(2) the date he becomes an Eligible Employee, and

(3) his attainment of age 18.

(c) Notwithstanding subsection (a), but subject to subsection (b) and Section
3.1(b) with respect to allocations under Section 3.1, an Eligible Employee who is
classified by the Company, in its sole discretion, as an  intern  shall become a
Participant
in the Plan on the first day of the first payroll period coinciding with or next
following
the earlier of: (1) his completion of one Year of Eligibility Service or (2) his
completion
of 30 days of continuous employment as an Employee; provided he is then an Eligible
Employee and has attained age 18.

(d) The continuous employment requirements reflected in subsections (a) and
(c) above were changed from 90 days to 30 days effective as of August 1, 2003. An
Employee who was otherwise eligible to participate in the Plan as of the close of
business
on July 31, 2003 and who had completed at least 90 days of continuous employment as
an Employee, but who had not yet satisfied the 90-day continuous employment
requirement under the prior version of this Section 2.1, shall become a Participant on
the
first day of the first payroll period coinciding with or next
following August 1, 2003;
provided he is then an Eligible Employee. 

RESOLVED FURTHER,  that Section 3.2(a) of the Plan is hereby amended by changing each reference
to  15%  therein to  40%  effective as of August 1, 2003.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the undersigned duly authorized officer of the Company has
executed this Amendment 2003-I on this 14 day of July, 2003.

INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY 

By:

/s/ Randall Kirner

Print Name: Randall Kirner 

Title: Vice President, Human Resources 

A-2

EXHIBIT A 

AMENDMENT 2005-I 
IGT PROFIT SHARING PLAN 

WHEREAS,  International Game Technology, a Nevada corporation (the  Company ), maintains the
IGT Profit Sharing Plan, as amended (the  Plan  and

WHEREAS,  the Company s Profit Sharing Plan Committee has the right to amend the Plan, has
approved the Plan amendments set forth below, and has instructed the undersigned duly authorized
officer of the Company to execute this document to conclusively evidence the approval and adoption
of such amendment;

NOW, THEREFORE,  Section 2.1 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the following new
subsection (e) to the end thereof, effective as of August 25, 2005, to read as follows:

(e) Notwithstanding subsection (a), and provided he is then an Eligible Employee and
has attained age 18, for each Eligible Employee who was employed by WagerWorks, Inc.
( WagerWorks ) or any of its subsidiaries as of the date of the acquisition of WagerWorks by
the Company, the mandatory 30 day waiting period for participation in the Plan shall be
waived and each such former WagerWorks employee shall be eligible for participation in the
Plan as of August 25, 2005, the date of the close of the acquisition transaction between the
Company and WagerWorks. 

FURTHERMORE,  Section 6.1(d) of the Plan is hereby amended in its entirety, effective as
of March 28, 2005, to read as follows:

(d) The provisions of this Section 6.1 (a) shall apply notwithstanding any of the
foregoing provisions to the contrary. Upon a Break in Employment, if, as of the date
benefits become distributable under Section 6.1 (a), the nonforfeitable balance in the
Participant s Accounts exceeds $5,000, distribution shall be made as soon as practicable
after a Break in Employment only if the Participant consents to a distribution of the
nonforfeitable balance of his Accounts in writing. If the Participant does not so consent
(unless Treasury Regulations otherwise provide and the Committee adopts different rules),
distribution of the amounts payable shall be made as soon as administratively practicable
after the Participant s death or the attainment of his Normal Retirement Age, whichever
occurs first. Upon a Break in Employment, if, as of the date benefits become distributable
under Section 6.1 (a), the nonforfeitable balance in the Participant s Accounts exceeds
$1,000 but is less than $5,000, and the Participant does not elect to have such mandatory
distribution paid directly to an eligible retirement plan specified by the Participant in a
direct rollover or to receive the distribution in accordance with Section 6.1 (a), then the
Plan Administrator will pay the distribution in a direct rollover to an individual
retirement plan designated by the Plan Administrator. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the undersigned duly authorized officer of the Company has executed this
Amendment 2005-I on this 15 day of November, 2005.

INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY 

By:

Tami Corbin

Print Name: Tami Corbin 

Title: Vice President, Human Resources 

A-2

</EX-10.8>

<EX-21>
 4
 a25752exv21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21

INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY SUBSIDIARIES 
(wholly-owned subsidiaries) 
At September 30, 2006

Name  

Jurisdiction of Incorporation   

International Game Technology

Nevada 

IGT

Nevada 

Silicon Gaming, Inc.

California 

WagerWorks, Inc.

Delaware 

Acres Gaming Incorporated

Nevada 

VLC, Inc.

Montana 

I.G.T. (Australia) Pty. Limited

Australia 

IGT   Europe B.V.

The Netherlands 

I.G.T.   Argentina S.A.

Argentina 

IGT Japan, K.K.

Japan 

IGT   Iceland Ltd.

Iceland 

IGT do Brasil LTDA.

Brazil 

International Game Technology   Africa (Pty) Ltd.

South Africa 

International Game Technology S.R. Ltda.

Peru 

IGT   UK Holdings Limited

England   Wales 

IGT Asia, Lda.

Macau 

IGT   Canada Inc.

Canada 

IGT   Mexicana de Juegos, S. de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

Servicios Corporativos y de Administracion, S. de R.L. de C.V.

Mexico 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 a25752exv23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

exv23 

Exhibit 23 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We consent
to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos.
33-20308, 33-63610, 333-24605, 333-81963, 333-85841, 333-94349,
333-83116, 333-91198, 333-123187, 333-123186 and
333-136237 on the respective Forms S-8 and in Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8 to
Registration Statement No. 333-67928 on Form S-4 of our report dated December 11, 2006 relating to
the consolidated financial statements (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes
an explanatory paragraph relating to the adoption of SFAS 123R,  Shared-Based Payment ) of
International Game Technology and our report dated December 11, 2006 relating to management s
report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K of International Game Technology for the year ended September 30, 2006.

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP

Los, Angeles, California 
December 11, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 a25752exv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13a   14(a) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT 
As Adopted Pursuant To Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

I, Thomas J. Matthews, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of International Game Technology; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to
the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)), for the registrant and have: 

a. 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b. 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c. 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d. 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing
the equivalent functions): 

a. 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b. 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: December 12, 2006

/s/ Thomas J. Matthews

Thomas J. Matthews

Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 a25752exv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13a   14(a) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT 
As Adopted Pursuant To Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

I, Maureen T. Mullarkey, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of International Game Technology; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to
the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)), and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)), for the registrant and have: 

a. 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b. 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c. 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d. 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing
the equivalent functions): 

a. 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b. 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: December 12, 2006

/s/ Maureen T. Mullarkey

Maureen T. Mullarkey

Chief Financial Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 a25752exv32w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of International Game Technology (the  Company ) on Form 10-K
for the period ended September 30, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ), I Thomas J. Matthews, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, that to my knowledge:

(i) the Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and

(ii) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

Date: December 12, 2006

/s/ Thomas J. Matthews

Thomas J. Matthews

Chief Executive Officer

International Game Technology

This certification accompanies the above described Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not, except to the extent required by such Act, be
deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 a25752exv32w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of International Game Technology (the  Company ) on Form 10-K
for the period ended September 30, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ), I Maureen T. Mullarkey, Chief Financial Officer of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:

(i) the Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and

(ii) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

Date: December 12, 2006

/s/ Maureen T. Mullarkey

Maureen T. Mullarkey

Chief Financial Officer

International Game Technology

This certification accompanies the above described Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not, except to the extent required by such Act, be
deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.

</EX-32.2>

