<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061130_10-K_edgar_data_108312_0000950137-06-013055_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1344586</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>270123</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3743</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>787756</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>67</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950137-06-013055.hdr.sgml : 20061130
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061130164535
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950137-06-013055
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061130
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061130

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WOODWARD GOVERNOR CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000108312
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIAL APPARATUS [3620]
		IRS NUMBER:				361984010
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-08408
		FILM NUMBER:		061248709

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5001 N SECOND ST
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 7001
		CITY:			ROCKFORD
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			61125-7001
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8158777441

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5001 N SECOND ST
		STREET 2:		PO BOX 7001
		CITY:			ROCKFORD
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			61125-7001

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 WWAijqVvsNTbLl2fZYS5YnnUynQ1bNwQloiLqkSa386HgWg5F2LiKPLLdTOAh3bD
 UzLeg/tE7GTJi1H+UHAuDQ==

 0000950137-06-013055.txt : 20061130

10-K
 1
 c10357e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission file number  0-8408  

WOODWARD GOVERNOR
    COMPANY   

(Exact name of registrant
    specified in its charter)  

Registrant s telephone
    number, including area code:  

(815)877-7441   

Securities registered pursuant
    to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of Each
    Class:   

Name of Each Exchange on
    Which Registered:   

Common stock, par value
    $.002917 per share

NASDAQ Global Select Market

Securities registered pursuant
    to Section 12(g) of the Act:  

None   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No  o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No  o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.    o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
    filer. See definitions of  accelerated filer and large
    accelerated filer  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
    filer              Accelerated
    filer  o           Non-accelerated
    filer  o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act).  Yes  o      No   

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common
    equity stock held by non-affiliates, computed by reference to
    the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the
    average bid and ask price of such common equity, as of the last
    business day of our most recently completed second fiscal
    quarter, was $967,019,000 (such aggregate market value does not
    include voting stock beneficially owned by directors, officers,
    the Woodward Governor Company Profit Sharing Trust, Woodward
    Governor Company Deferred Shares Trust, or the Woodward
    Governor Company Charitable Trust).

There were 34,142,962 shares of common stock with a par
    value of $.0292 per share outstanding at November 20,
    2006.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
    REFERENCE   

Portions of our proxy statement for the 2006 annual meeting of
    shareholders to be held January 24, 2007, are incorporated
    by reference into Part III of this filing, to the extent
    indicated.

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

Page 

PART I   

Item 1.  

Business

4

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors

6

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff Comments

9

Item 2.  

Properties

10

Item 3.  

Legal Proceedings

10

Item 4.  

Submission of Matters to a Vote of
    Security Holders

10

PART II   

Item 5.  

Market for Registrant s
    Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
    of Equity Securities

11

Item 6.  

Selected Financial Data

12

Item 7.  

Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

13

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative
    Disclosures About Market Risk

30

Item 8.  

Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data

31

Item 9.  

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

58

Item 9A.  

Controls and Procedures

58

Item 9B.  

Other Information

59

PART III   

Item 10.  

Directors and Executive Officers
    of the Registrant

59

Item 11.  

Executive Compensation

59

Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain
    Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

60

Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions

60

Item 14.  

Principal Accounting Fees and
    Services

60

PART IV   

Item 15.  

Exhibits and Financial Statement
    Schedules

60

Signatures  

62

Bylaws    
     Form of Transitional Compensation Agreement    
     Subsidiaries    
     Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
     Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Thomas A. Gendron    
     Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Robert F. Weber    
     Section 1350 Certifications    

1

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.         

Business    

Woodward Governor Company designs, manufactures, and services
    energy control systems and components for aircraft and
    industrial engines and turbines. Leading OEMs (original
    equipment manufacturers) throughout the world use our products
    and services in the power generation, aerospace, transportation,
    and process industries markets.

We were established in 1870 and incorporated in 1902. We serve
    global markets from locations worldwide and are currently
    headquartered in Rockford, Illinois. Our principal executive
    officers maintain offices in Fort Collins, Colorado, as
    well as Rockford, Illinois. We plan to change the designation of
    our corporate headquarters to Fort Collins, Colorado,
    effective January 1, 2007.

Our business is driven by the worldwide demand for efficient,
    low emission, long life, and high performance energy use in
    harsh and demanding environments. Energy control and
    optimization solutions are our strength. One of our key
    objectives is to accurately and precisely control energy to
    optimize the performance, reliability, emissions, and efficiency
    of our customers  products.

Strategic Focus: Energy Control and Optimization
    Solutions.   Our key areas of focus are fluid
    energy, combustion control, electrical energy, and motion
    control.

Leverage: Core Technologies.   Our core
    technologies include valves, servo actuators, combustion
    sensing, digital electronics, fuel injection, electric
    actuation, ignition, power electronics, pumps, and AC
    measurement and control.

Integrate:  Systems.   Our systems include fuel
    systems, combustion systems, fluid systems, actuation systems,
    and electronic systems.

Apply: OEM and Equipment Packagers.   Our OEM
    and equipment packager customers use our systems and components
    in their products, including diesel engines, turbines, gas
    engines, compressors, generator sets, switchgear, and industrial
    vehicles. Some of our customers include Caterpillar, Cummins,
    Doosan, Dresser-Rand, Ebara, Emerson Electric, Enginuity, GE,
    Guangxi Yuchai Machinery, Hyundai, Ingersoll-Rand Bobcat,
    Kawasaki, Mitsubishi, Rolls-Royce, Siemens,
    U.S. government, United Technologies/Pratt &
    Whitney, W rtsil  and major airlines worldwide.

Serve: Market Applications.   Ultimately, our
    systems and components are used in products that are sold into
    four key markets   power generation, transportation,
    process industries, and aerospace.

We have two operating segments   Industrial Controls
    and Aircraft Engine Systems. Industrial Controls is focused on
    systems and components that provide energy control and
    optimization solutions for industrial markets, which includes
    power generation, transportation, and process industries.
    Aircraft Engine Systems is focused on systems and components
    that provide energy control and optimization solutions for the
    aerospace market.

Information about our operations in 2006 and outlook for the
    future, including certain segment information, is included in
     Item 7   Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. 
    Additional segment information and certain geographical
    information are included in the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements in  Item 8   Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.  Other information about
    our business follows.

Industrial
    Controls   

We provide components and integrated systems through Industrial
    Controls primarily to OEMs of diesel engines, industrial
    turbines, gas engines, compressors, generator sets, switchgear,
    and industrial vehicles. We also sell components as spares or
    replacements, and provide other related services to these
    customers and other customers. In 2006, our two largest
    customers were General Electric Company, which accounted for
    approximately 20% of Industrial Controls  sales, and
    Caterpillar, Inc., which accounted for approximately 18% of
    Industrial Controls  sales.

4

Table of Contents   

We generally sell Industrial Controls  products and
    services directly to our OEM customers, although we also
    generate sales to end users through distributors, dealers, and
    independent service facilities, whom often serve the role of an
    equipment packager. We carry certain finished goods and
    component parts inventory to meet rapid delivery requirements of
    customers, primarily for aftermarket needs. We do not believe
    Industrial Controls  sales are subject to significant
    seasonal variation.

We believe Industrial Controls has a significant competitive
    position within the market for components and integrated systems
    for diesel engines, turbines, gas engines, compressors,
    generator sets, and switchgears. While published information is
    not available in sufficient detail to enable an accurate
    assessment, we believe we hold a strong position among
    independent manufacturers for power generation, transportation,
    and process industries markets. We compete with as many as 10
    independent manufacturers and with the in-house control
    operations of OEMs. Customers demand technological solutions to
    meet their needs for efficiency, reliability, and the ability to
    meet increasingly more stringent global emissions regulations.
    Companies compete on the basis of providing products that meet
    these needs, as well as on the basis of price, quality, and
    customer service. In our opinion, our prices are generally
    competitive, and our quality, customer service, and technology
    used in products are favorable competitive factors.

Industrial Controls  backlog orders were approximately
    $140 million at October 31, 2006, approximately 93% of
    which we expect to fill by September 30, 2007. Last year,
    Industrial Controls  backlog orders were approximately
    $119 million at October 31, 2005, approximately 99% of
    which we expected to fill by September 30, 2006. Backlog
    orders are not necessarily an indicator of future billing levels
    because of variations in lead times.

Aircraft
    Engine Systems   

We provide components and integrated systems through Aircraft
    Engine Systems to OEMs of aircraft gas turbines for use in those
    turbines. We also sell components as spares or replacements, and
    provide repair and overhaul services to these customers and
    other customers. In 2006, our two largest customers were General
    Electric Company, which accounted for approximately 24% of
    Aircraft Engine Systems  sales, and United Technologies,
    which accounted for approximately 17% of Aircraft Engine
    Systems  sales.

We primarily sell Aircraft Engine Systems  products and
    services directly to our customers, although we also generate
    some aftermarket sales through distributors, dealers, and
    independent service facilities. We carry certain finished goods
    and component parts inventory to meet rapid delivery
    requirements of customers, primarily for aftermarket needs. We
    do not believe Aircraft Engine Systems  sales are subject
    to significant seasonal variation.

We believe Aircraft Engine Systems has a significant competitive
    position within the market for components and integrated systems
    for aircraft gas turbines. We compete with several other
    manufacturers, including divisions of OEMs of aircraft gas
    turbines. While published information is not available in
    sufficient detail to enable an accurate assessment, we do not
    believe any company holds a dominant competitive position.
    Companies compete principally on price, quality, and customer
    service. In our opinion, our prices are competitive, and our
    quality and customer service are favorable competitive factors.

Aircraft Engine Systems  backlog orders were approximately
    $228 million at October 31, 2006, approximately 62% of
    which we expect to fill by September 30, 2007. Last year,
    Aircraft Engine Systems  backlog orders were approximately
    $137 million at October 31, 2005, approximately 71% of
    which we expected to fill by September 30, 2006. Backlog
    orders are not necessarily an indicator of future billing levels
    because of variations in lead times.

Other
    Matters   

Products for both Industrial Controls and Aircraft Engine
    Systems make use of several patents and trademarks of various
    durations that we believe are collectively important. However,
    we do not consider our business for either segment dependent
    upon any one patent or trademark.

For both segments, our products consist of mechanical,
    electronic, and electromagnetic components. Mechanical
    components are machined primarily from aluminum, iron, and
    steel. Generally there are numerous

5

Table of Contents   

sources for the raw materials and components used in our
    products, and they are believed to be sufficiently available to
    meet all requirements.

We spent approximately $60 million for company-sponsored
    research and development activities in 2006, $50 million in
    2005 and $40 million in 2004. Both Industrial Controls and
    Aircraft Engine Systems incurred these expenses.

We do not believe that compliance with current Federal, State,
    or local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into
    the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the
    environment, will have any material effect on our capital
    expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. We are also not
    intending to incur material capital expenditures for
    environmental control facilities through September 30, 2007.

We employed about 3,700 people at October 31, 2006.

This report contains forward-looking statements and should be
    read with  Item 1A   Risk Factors. 

We maintain a website at www.woodward.com. Securities and
    Exchange Commission filings, including annual reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    and proxy statements, are available on our website as soon as
    reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with,
    or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
    Shareholders may obtain, without charge, a single copy of
    Woodward s 2006 annual report on
     Form 10-K 
    upon written request to the Corporate Secretary, Woodward
    Governor Company, 5001 North Second Street, P.O. Box 7001,
    Rockford, Illinois,
     61125-7001. 

Item 1A.         

Risk
    Factors    

Investment in our securities involves risk. An investor or
    potential investor should consider the risks summarized in this
    section when making investment decisions regarding our
    securities.

Also, an investor should be aware that this annual report
    contains statements intended to be considered forward-looking
    statements and therefore entitled to the safe harbor provisions
    of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,
    including:

Projections of sales, earnings, cash flows, or other financial
    items;

Descriptions of our plans and objectives for future operations;

Forecasts of future economic performance; and

Descriptions of assumptions underlying the above items.

Forward-looking statements do not reflect historical facts.
    Rather, they are statements about future events and conditions
    and often include words such as  anticipate, 
     believe,   estimate,   expect, 
     forecast,   intend,   outlook, 
     plan,   project,   target, 
     can,   could,   may, 
     should,   will,   would,  or
    similar expressions. Such statements reflect our expectations
    about the future only as of the date they are made. We are not
    obligated to, and we might not, update our forward-looking
    statements to reflect changes that occur after the date they are
    made. Furthermore, actual results could differ materially from
    projections or any other forward-looking statements regardless
    of when they are made.

Important factors that could individually, or together with one
    or more other factors, affect our business, results of
    operations
     and/or 
    financial condition include, but are not limited to, the
    following:

Company
    Risks  

Customers
    that account for a significant portion of our sales may change
    suppliers, insource production, or be less successful in the
    marketplace.   

We have fewer customers than many other companies with similar
    sales volumes. Two customers accounted for 33% of our sales in
    2006, each individually accounting for more than 10%. Our sales
    could decrease significantly if a large customer were to change
    suppliers, insource production, or be less successful in the
    markets in which it participates.

6

Table of Contents   

Sales
    may not achieve the level forecast.   

We use inputs from various sources in developing our sales
    forecast, including customer and third-party forecasts of sales
    volumes and purchase requirements in our markets. Each of these
    sources could be overstated. In addition, general business and
    economic conditions and industry-specific business and economic
    conditions change over time, potentially resulting in lower
    sales.

Many
    of our expenses may not be able to be reduced in proportion to a
    sales shortfall.   

Many of our expenses are relatively fixed in relation to changes
    in sales volumes. Some of these expenses are related to past
    capital expenditures or business acquisitions in the form of
    depreciation and amortization expense. Others are related to
    expenditures driven by levels of business activity other than
    the level of sales, including manufacturing overhead. As a
    result, we might be unable to reduce spending quickly enough to
    compensate for a reduction in sales, which would adversely
    affect our earnings.

Suppliers
    may be unable to provide us with materials of sufficient quality
    or quantity required to meet our production needs.   

We are dependent upon suppliers for parts and raw materials used
    in the manufacture of components that we sell to our customers.
    We may experience a shortage of materials for various reasons,
    such as financial distress, work stoppages, natural disasters,
    or production difficulties that may affect one or more of our
    suppliers. A protracted interruption of supplies for any reason
    may adversely affect our financial condition and results of
    operations.

Product
    development activities may not be successful or may be more
    costly than currently anticipated.   

Our business involves a significant level of product development
    activities, generally in connection with our customers  own
    development activities. If these activities are not as
    successful as currently anticipated, or if they are more costly
    than currently anticipated, future sales
     and/or 
    earnings could be lower.

Activities
    necessary to integrate an acquisition may result in costs in
    excess of current expectations or be less successful than
    anticipated.   

We completed a business acquisition in October 2006 and we may
    acquire other businesses in the future. If actual integration
    costs are higher than amounts assumed, or we are unable to
    integrate the assets and personnel acquired in an acquisition as
    anticipated, our future earnings may be lower than anticipated.

Changes
    in the estimates of fair value of reporting units or of
    long-lived assets may result in future impairment
    charges.   

Over time, the fair values of long-lived assets change. We test
    goodwill for impairment annually, and more often if
    circumstances require. We also test property, plant, and
    equipment, and other intangibles for impairment whenever events
    or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may
    not be recoverable. Future impairment charges may occur if
    estimates of fair values decrease, which will reduce future
    earnings.

Future
    subsidiary results may change the amount of valuation allowances
    provided for deferred income tax assets.   

We establish valuation allowances to reflect the estimated
    amount of deferred tax assets that might not be realized. The
    underlying analysis is performed for individual tax
    jurisdictions, generally at a subsidiary level. Future
    subsidiary results, actual or forecasted, could change the
    outcome of our analysis and change the amount of valuation
    allowances provided for deferred income tax assets.

Manufacturing
    activities may result in future environmental
    liabilities.   

We use hazardous materials in our manufacturing operations. We
    also own facilities that were formerly owned and operated by
    others that used hazardous materials. The risk that a release of
    hazardous materials has occurred in

7

Table of Contents   

the past, or will occur in the future, cannot be completely
    eliminated. As a result, we may need to undertake future
    environmental remediation activities that will negatively affect
    our future earnings and financial position.

Amounts
    accrued for contingencies may be inadequate to cover the amount
    of loss when the matters are ultimately resolved.   

We are currently involved in pending or threatened litigation or
    other legal proceedings regarding employment, product liability,
    and contractual matters arising from the normal course of
    business. We accrue for individual matters that we believe are
    likely to result in a loss when ultimately resolved using
    estimates of the most likely amount of loss. There may be
    additional losses that have not been accrued that will reduce
    future earnings.

Changes
    in the legal environment in which we operate may affect future
    sales and expenses.   

We operate in a number of countries and are affected by a
    variety of laws and regulations, including employment, import,
    export, business acquisitions, environmental, and taxation
    matters, among others. Unexpected changes in the legal
    environment may result in lower sales or increased expenses in
    the future.

Operations
    outside the United States may be subject to additional
    risks.   

Our principal plants include facilities in China and Germany, as
    well as the United States. The operations outside the United
    States could be disrupted by a natural disaster, war, political
    unrest, terrorist activity, public health concerns, or other
    unforeseen events that would be less likely to occur in the
    United States. Disruption of an overseas operation could
    adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results
    of operations.

Changes
    in foreign currency exchange rates may decrease margins
    associated with our sales.   

We have situations in which sales agreements and the related
    cost of sales are predominately denominated in different
    currencies. These may involve foreign sales and domestic costs,
    or vice versa. Each of these situations involve the risk that
    the margins associated with these sales could be lower than
    previous sales or forecasts because of changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates.

Changes
    in assumptions may increase the amount of retirement pension and
    healthcare benefit obligations and related
    expense.   

Accounting for retirement pension and healthcare benefit
    obligations and related expense requires the use of assumptions,
    including a weighted-average discount rate, an expected
    long-term rate of return on assets, and a net healthcare cost
    trend rate, among others. Benefit obligations and benefit costs
    are sensitive to changes in these assumptions. As a result,
    assumption changes could result in increases in our obligation
    amounts and expenses.

Industry
    Risks  

Competitors
    may develop breakthrough technologies that are adopted by our
    customers.   

Many of the components and systems we sell are used in harsh
    environments with difficult emissions standards. The
    technological expertise we have developed and maintained could
    become less valuable if a competitor were to develop a
    breakthrough technology that would allow them to match the
    performance of existing technologies at a lower cost. A
    breakthrough technology could also accelerate the rate of change
    in customer demands beyond what existing technologies are
    capable of achieving.

Changes
    in competitor strategies may reduce the demand for our
    products.   

Companies compete on the basis of providing products that meet
    the needs of customers, as well as on the basis of price,
    quality, and customer service. Changes in competitive
    conditions, including the availability of new products and
    services, the introduction of new channels of distribution, and
    changes in OEM and aftermarket pricing, could negatively affect
    future sales.

8

Table of Contents   

Unforeseen
    events may occur that significantly reduce commercial airline
    travel.   

Our Aircraft Engine Systems segment accounted for 43% of our
    sales in 2006, with the majority of sales tied to commercial
    aviation. Market demand for our components and systems would be
    negatively affected by reductions in commercial airline travel.
    Certain events have had a notable negative effect on passenger
    flight miles in the past, such as the terrorist actions of 2001.

Increasing
    emission standards that drive certain product sales may be eased
    or delayed.   

We sell components and systems that have been designed to meet
    demanding emission standards, including standards that have not
    yet been implemented but are intended to be soon. If the demands
    of these emission standards are eased, our future sales could be
    lower as potential customers select alternative products or
    delay adoption of our products.

Natural
    gas prices may increase significantly and disproportionately to
    other sources of fuels used for power generation.   

Commercial producers of electricity use many of our components
    and systems, most predominately in their power plants that use
    natural gas as their fuel source. Commercial producers of
    electricity are often in a position to manage its use of
    different power plant facilities and make decisions based on
    operating costs. If natural gas prices were to increase
    significantly and disproportionately to other sources of fuels,
    it is likely that the use of our components and systems would
    decrease.

The
    U.S. Government may reduce defense funding or the mix of
    programs to which such funding is allocated.   

The level of U.S. defense spending is subject to periodic
    congressional appropriation actions, which can change. The mix
    of programs to which such funding is allocated is also
    uncertain. A portion of our sales of components and systems is
    to the U.S. Government, primarily in the aerospace market.
    If the amount of spending was to decrease, or there was a shift
    from certain aerospace programs to other programs, our sales
    could decrease.

Changes
    in foreign currency exchange rates or in interest rates may
    reduce the demand for our products.   

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or in interest rates
    affects demand for capital purchases. Each of the markets in
    which we sell operates globally and is influenced by foreign
    currency exchange rates. Also, capital expenditures tend to
    decrease as interest rates and economic uncertainty rise.

Investment
    Risks  

The
    historic market price of our common stock may not be indicative
    of future market prices.   

The market price of our common stock changes over time. The
    selling price of our common stock ranged from a low of
    $25.10 per share to a high of $38.88 per share in
    2006. The causes of stock price volatility are related to many
    factors both within and outside management s control. As a
    result, we may not be

able to maintain or increase the value of our common stock.

The
    typical trading volume of our common stock may affect an
    investor s ability to sell significant share holdings in
    the future without negatively affecting share
    price.   

We currently have approximately 35 million shares of common
    stock outstanding. While the level of trading activity will vary
    by day, the typical trading level represents only a small
    percentage of shares outstanding. As a result, a seller of a
    significant number of shares in a short period of time could
    negatively affect our share price.

Item 1B.         

Unresolved
    Staff Comments    

There are no unresolved comments from the staff of the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regarding the
    periodic or current reports that we filed under the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934.

9

Table of Contents   

Item 2.         

Properties    

Our principal plants are as follows:

United
    States   

Fort Collins, Colorado   Industrial Controls
    manufacturing and corporate offices

Loveland, Colorado   Industrial Controls manufacturing
    and partially leased to a third party

Niles, Illinois   Industrial Controls manufacturing
    Rockford, Illinois   Aircraft Engine Systems
    manufacturing and corporate offices

Rockton, Illinois   Aircraft Engine Systems
    manufacturing and repair and overhaul

Zeeland, Michigan   Aircraft Engine Systems
    manufacturing

Greenville, South Carolina (leased)   Industrial
    Controls manufacturing

Other
    Countries   

Suzhou, Peoples  Republic of China (leased)  
    Industrial Controls manufacturing

Aken, Germany (leased)   Industrial Controls
    manufacturing

Kempen, Germany   Industrial Controls manufacturing
    (acquired on October 31, 2006, subsequent to the year ended
    September 30, 2006)

Stuttgart, Germany (leased)   Industrial Controls
    manufacturing

Prestwick, Scotland, United Kingdom (leased)  
    Aircraft Engine Systems repair and overhaul

Our principal plants are suitable and adequate for the
    manufacturing and other activities performed at those plants,
    and we believe our utilization levels are generally high. With
    continuing advancements in manufacturing technology and
    operational improvements, we believe we can continue to increase
    production without additional plants.

In addition to the principal plants listed above, we own
    facilities in Japan, The Netherlands, and United Kingdom,
    and lease several facilities in locations worldwide, which are
    used primarily for sales and service activities. The United
    Kingdom facility also serves as a key development site for
    diesel fuel injection products.

We plan on changing the designation of our corporate
    headquarters from Rockford, Illinois to Fort Collins,
    Colorado, effective January 1, 2007. In recent years, we
    have maintained corporate offices for our principal executive
    officers in both locations. The address of our Fort Collins
    location is 1000 East Drake Road, Fort Collins, Colorado,
    80525, and its phone number is
     (970) 498-5811. 

Item 3.         

Legal
    Proceedings    

We are currently involved in pending or threatened litigation or
    other legal proceedings regarding employment, product liability,
    and contractual matters arising from the normal course of
    business. These matters are discussed in the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements in
     Item 8   Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data.  We currently do not have any
    administrative or judicial proceedings arising under any
    Federal, State, or local provisions regulating the discharge of
    materials into the environment or primarily for the purpose of
    protecting the environment.

Item 4.         

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders
    during the fourth quarter of 2006.

10

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.         

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    

(a) Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select
    Market and at November 17, 2006, there were approximately
    1,417 holders of record. Cash dividends were declared quarterly
    during 2006 and 2005. The amount of cash dividends per share and
    the high and low sales price per share for our common stock for
    each fiscal quarter in 2006 and 2005 are included in the Notes
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
     Item 8   Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data. 

(b) Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities  

Sales of common stock issued from treasury to one of the
    company s directors during 2006 consisted of the following:

The securities were sold in reliance upon the exemption
    contained in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933.

(c) Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

In addition to shares purchased as part of publicly announced
    plans or programs, we acquired 46,527 shares as payment for
    the exercise price of stock options exercised in December 2005.
    We also purchased shares on the open market related to the
    reinvestment of dividends for treasury stock held for deferred
    compensation of 1,467 in December 2005, 1,245 in March 2006,
    1,282 in June 2006, and 1,217 in September 2006.

11

Table of Contents   

On July 25, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to $50 million of our outstanding shares
    of common stock on the open market and in private transactions
    over a three-year period that will end on July 25, 2009.
    There have been no terminations or expirations since the
    approval date.

On January 26, 2005, the Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to $30 million of our outstanding shares
    of common stock on the open market and in private transactions
    over a three-year period. This authorization was terminated on
    July 25, 2006, concurrent with the approval of a new stock
    repurchase authorization.

Item 6.         

Selected
    Financial Data    

Notes: 

1.  

Per share amounts have been updated from amounts reported prior
    to February 1, 2006, to reflect the effects of a
     three-for-one 
    stock split. 

2.  

Net earnings included a deferred tax asset valuation allowance
    change that increased net earnings by $13,710 in the third
    quarter of 2006, or $0.40 per basic share and
    $0.39 per diluted share. 

3.  

Accounting for stock-based compensation changed to the fair
    value method from the intrinsic value method beginning in the
    first quarter of 2006. The following presents a reconciliation
    of reported net earnings and per share information to pro forma
    net earnings and per share information that would have been
    reported if the fair value method had been used to account for
    stock-based employee compensation in 2001 through 2005: 

12

Table of Contents   

Item 7.         

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations    

We prepared the following discussion and analysis to help you
    better understand our financial condition, changes in our
    financial condition, and results of operations. This discussion
    should be read with the consolidated financial statements.

OVERVIEW  

Woodward designs, manufactures, and services energy control
    systems and components for aircraft and industrial engines and
    turbines. Leading OEMs throughout the world use our products and
    services in the power generation, process industries,
    transportation, and aerospace markets.

Our strategic focus is Energy Control and Optimization
    Solutions. The control of energy   fluid energy,
    combustion, electrical energy, and motion   is a
    growing requirement in the markets we serve. Our customers look
    to us to optimize the efficiency, emissions, and operations of
    power equipment. Our core technologies leverage well across our
    markets and customer applications, enabling us to develop and
    integrate cost-effective and
     state-of-the-art 
    fuel, combustion, fluid, actuation, and electronic systems. We
    focus primarily on OEMs and equipment packagers, partnering with
    them to bring superior component and system solutions to their
    demanding applications.

We have two operating segments   Industrial Controls
    and Aircraft Engine Systems. Industrial Controls is focused on
    systems and components that provide energy control and
    optimization solutions for industrial markets, which includes
    power generation, transportation, and process industries.
    Aircraft Engine Systems is focused on systems and components
    that provide energy control and optimization solutions for the
    aerospace market. We use segment information internally to
    assess the performance of each segment and to make decisions on
    the allocation of resources.

Our sales and earnings have grown over the last four years. In
    2006, our sales exceeded $850 million for the first time in
    our history and our net earnings were just short of
    $70 million. Our markets have substantially recovered from
    the declines that occurred in 2002 and 2003 and both of our
    segments benefited from these factors. In addition, net earnings
    for 2006 benefited from a change in the valuation allowance for
    deferred tax assets of $13.7 million.

Improvement of Industrial Controls  earnings was a key
    objective for 2006, and its earnings nearly doubled from 5.4% of
    sales in 2005 to 10.3% in 2006. This improvement was driven by a
    manufacturing consolidation in 2005 and early 2006, supply chain
    productivity initiatives, and market and management-initiated
    changes in our product mix.

Aircraft Engine Systems continued to generate earnings within
    our targeted range of 20 to 22% of sales in 2006, and we are
    continuing to invest substantial amounts in research and
    development activities to sustain future

13

Table of Contents   

growth. Company-wide, our expenditures for research and
    development increased 20% in 2006 over 2005, largely the result
    of program wins in the aerospace market over the last few years.

Subsequent to the end of 2006, we acquired a business that had
    sales of $60 million in calendar year 2005. This business
    adds dimension and range to our core technologies and product
    portfolio for the power generation market, including protection
    and comprehensive control systems for power distribution
    applications and power inverters for wind turbines  
    areas we have targeted for growth.

At September 30, 2006, our total assets exceeded
    $735 million, including $84 million in cash, and our
    total debt was less than $74 million. We are well
    positioned to fund expanded research and development and to
    explore other investment opportunities consistent with our
    focused strategies.

The financial statements that are filed as part of this
     Form 10-K 
    reflect the effects of the
     three-for-one 
    stock split that became effective during 2006. Shareholders
    approved the split in January 2006.

In the sections that follow, we are providing information to
    help you better understand our critical accounting policies and
    market risks, our results of operations and financial condition,
    and the effects of recent accounting pronouncements. However,
    you should be aware that this discussion contains statements
    intended to be considered forward-looking statements and
    therefore entitled to the safe harbor provision of the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Information about
    forward-looking statements, including important factors that
    could affect our business, results of operations
     and/or 
    financial condition, are included in
     Item 1A   Risk Factors. 

CRITICAL
    ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

We consider the accounting policies used in preparing our
    financial statements to be critical accounting policies when
    they are both important to the portrayal of our financial
    condition and results of operations, and require us to make
    difficult, subjective, or complex judgments. Critical accounting
    policies normally result from the need to make estimates about
    the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Management
    has discussed the development and selection of our critical
    accounting policies with the audit committee of the
    company s Board of Directors, and the audit committee has
    reviewed the disclosures that follow.

In each of the following areas, our judgments, estimates, and
    assumptions are impacted by conditions that change over time. As
    a result, in the future there could be changes in our assets and
    liabilities, increases or decreases in our expenses, and
    additional losses or gains that are material to our financial
    condition and results of operations.

Goodwill   

Goodwill, which is included in the segment assets of both
    Industrial Controls and Aircraft Engine Systems, totaled
    $132.1 million at September 30, 2006, representing 18%
    of total assets. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual
    basis and more often if circumstances require. Impairment tests
    performed during the three years ended September 30, 2006,
    have not resulted in any impairment losses.

Estimates and assumptions, the most important of which are used
    to estimate the fair value of reporting units within the
    company, affect the results of our goodwill impairment tests. To
    estimate the fair value of reporting units, we estimate future
    cash flows, discount rates, and transaction multiples that we
    believe a marketplace participant would use in an arm s
    length transaction.

To assess the effect on our annual impairment tests in 2006 if
    different assumptions had been used, we separately measured the
    effects of a hypothetical 20% reduction in estimated cash flows,
    a 20% increase in the discount rates used, and a 20% reduction
    in the transaction multiples used. While each of these changes
    would have reduced the estimated fair value of reporting units
    within the company, none of them individually would have
    resulted in an impairment loss in 2006.

Other
    long-lived assets   

As discussed here, our other long-lived assets consist of
    property, plant, and equipment, and other intangibles, which are
    included primarily in the segment assets of both Industrial
    Controls and Aircraft Engine Systems. Other long-lived assets
    totaled $195.9 million at September 30, 2006, and
    represented 27% of total assets. We depreciate

14

Table of Contents   

or amortize long-lived assets over their estimated useful lives.
    Depreciation and amortization expense associated with these
    assets totaled $29.0 million in 2006, $31.5 million in
    2005, and $32.8 million in 2004. We also test long-lived
    assets for recoverability whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be
    recoverable.

The selection of useful lives for depreciation and amortization
    purposes requires judgment. If we had increased the remaining
    useful life of all assets being depreciated and amortized by one
    year, depreciation and amortization expense would have
    decreased, and the year-end carrying value of long-lived assets
    would have increased, by approximately $3.5 million in
    2006. Similarly, if we had decreased the remaining useful lives
    by one year, depreciation and amortization expense would have
    increased, and the year-end carrying value of long-lived assets
    would have decreased, by approximately $4.6 million in
    2006. (The results of this sensitivity analysis ignore the
    impact of individual assets that might have become fully
    depreciated or amortized during 2006 had these hypothetical
    changes been made.)

The carrying value of a long-lived asset, or related group of
    assets, is reduced to its fair value whenever estimates of
    future cash flows are insufficient to indicate the carrying
    value is recoverable. We form judgments as to whether
    recoverability should be assessed, we estimate future cash flows
    and, if necessary, we estimate fair value. Fair value estimates
    are most often based on estimated future cash flows and assumed
    discount rates.

Deferred
    income tax asset valuation allowances   

Valuation allowances for deferred income tax assets totaled
    $2.6 million at September 30, 2006, representing 3% of
    deferred income tax assets before the allowances. The net
    changes in the valuation allowances increased total
    comprehensive earnings (comprised of net earnings and foreign
    currency translation adjustments) by $15.2 million in 2006
    and $0.9 million in 2005.

Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if,
    based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely
    than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets
    will not be realized. Both positive and negative evidence are
    considered in forming our judgment as to whether a valuation
    allowance is appropriate, and more weight is given to evidence
    that can be objectively verified. Valuation allowances are
    reassessed whenever there are changes in circumstances that may
    cause a change in judgment. In 2006, additional objective
    evidence became available regarding earnings in tax
    jurisdictions that had unexpired net operating loss
    carryforwards that affected our judgment about the valuation
    allowance that existed at the beginning of the year. If we had
    made different judgments regarding the realizability of deferred
    tax assets, our valuation allowance and income tax expense may
    have been higher or lower than amounts reported.

Retirement
    pension and healthcare benefits   

The cost of retirement pension and healthcare benefits is
    recognized over employee service periods using an
    actuarial-based attribution approach. Our net accrued benefit
    for these retirement benefits totaled $61.5 million at
    September 30, 2006, which represented 24% of total
    liabilities and consisted of the following (in millions):

Pension 

Healthcare 

Benefit
    obligation

$

76

$

52

Fair value of
    plan assets

(58

)

Unrecognized net
    losses

(16

)

(10

)

Unamortized
    prior service cost

3

8

Other items
    affecting the liability

6

15

Table of Contents   

The net periodic benefit cost associated with these liabilities
    totaled $4.4 million in 2006, which consisted of the
    following (in millions):

Pension 

Healthcare 

Service cost

$

2

$

Interest cost

3

3

Expected return
    on plan assets

(3

)

Recognized losses

1

1

Recognized prior
    service cost

(3

)

To determine our net accrued benefit and net periodic benefit
    cost, we form judgments about the best estimate for each
    assumption used in the actuarial computation. The most important
    assumptions that affect the computations are the discount rate,
    the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and the
    healthcare cost trend rate.

Our discount rate assumption is intended to reflect the rate at
    which the retirement benefits could be effectively settled based
    upon the assumed timing of the benefit payments. In the United
    States, we use the blended 40/60 Moody s Baa/Aaa index, the
    Citigroup Pension Liability Index, and the
     30-year 
    U.S. treasury rate as benchmarks. In the United Kingdom, we
    use the AA corporate bond index (applicable for bonds over
    15 years) and government bond yields (for bonds over
    15 years) to determine a blended rate to use as the
    benchmark. In Japan, we use
     AA-rated 
    corporate bond yields (for bonds of 12.5 years) as the
    benchmark. Our assumed rates do not differ significantly from
    any of these benchmarks.

We assumed weighted-average discount rates of 4.69% to determine
    our retirement pension benefit obligation at September 30,
    2006, and 4.48% to determine the related service and interest
    costs in 2006. A 1.00% increase in these discount rates would
    have decreased the benefit obligation at the end of 2006 by
    $12.5 million and increased the total of service and
    interest costs by $0.7 million in 2006. Likewise, a 1.00%
    decrease in these discount rates would have increased the
    benefit obligation by $15.5 million and decreased the total
    of service and interest costs by $0.9 million in 2006.

We assumed weighted-average discount rates of 5.56% to determine
    our retirement healthcare benefit obligation at
    September 30, 2006, and 5.28% to determine the related
    service and interest costs in 2006. A 1.00% increase in these
    discount rates would have decreased the benefit obligation at
    the end of 2006 by $5.1 million and increased the total of
    service and interest costs by $0.1 million in 2006.
    Likewise, a 1.00% decrease in these discount rates would have
    increased the benefit obligation by $6.2 million and
    decreased the total of service and interest costs by
    $0.2 million in 2006.

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets was based
    on our current asset allocations and the historical long-term
    performance for each asset class, as adjusted for existing
    market conditions. Information regarding our asset allocations
    is included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in
     Item 8   Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data.  We assumed a weighted-average expected
    long-term rate of return on pension plan assets of 6.69% to
    determine our net periodic benefit cost in 2006. A 1.00%
    increase in the expected return would have decreased the net
    periodic benefit cost by $0.5 million in 2006. Likewise, a
    1.00% decrease in the expected return would have increased the
    net periodic benefit cost by $0.5 million in 2006.

We assumed net healthcare cost trend rates of 10.00% in 2007,
    decreasing gradually to 5.00% in 2012, and remaining at 5.00%
    thereafter. A 1.00% increase in assumed healthcare cost trend
    rates would have increased the benefit obligation at the end of
    2006 by $5.6 million and the total of the service and
    interest costs by $0.4 million in 2006. Likewise, a 1.00%
    decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have
    decreased the benefit obligation by $4.8 million and the
    total of service and interest costs by $0.3 million in 2006.

Among the items affecting our net accrued retirement pension
    benefits were additional minimum pension liabilities necessary
    to reflect a liability amount at least equal to the accumulated
    benefit obligation on an individual plan basis. The total
    increase in minimum pension liabilities for 2006 was
    $1.6 million and was primarily reported in other
    comprehensive income, net of income taxes. Based on future plan
    asset performance and discount rates, additional adjustments to
    our net accrued benefit and equity may be required in the future.

16

Table of Contents   

MARKET
    RISKS  

Our long-term debt is sensitive to changes in interest rates. We
    monitor trends in interest rates as a basis for determining
    whether to enter into fixed rate or variable rate debt
    agreements, the duration of such agreements, and whether to use
    hedging strategies. Our primary objective is to minimize our
    long-term costs of borrowing. At September 30, 2006, our
    long-term debt consisted of fixed rate agreements. As measured
    at September 30, 2006, a hypothetical 1% immediate increase
    in interest rates would reduce the fair value of our long-term
    debt by approximately $1.9 million.

Assets, liabilities, and commitments that are to be settled in
    cash and are denominated in foreign currencies for transaction
    purposes are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. We
    monitor trends in foreign currency exchange rates and our
    exposure to changes in those rates as a basis for determining
    whether to use hedging strategies. Our primary exposures are to
    the European Monetary Union euro and the Japanese yen. We do not
    have any derivative instruments associated with foreign currency
    exchange rates. A hypothetical 10% immediate increase in the
    value of the United States dollar relative to all other
    currencies, when applied to September 30, 2006, balances,
    would adversely affect our 2007 net earnings and cash flows
    by approximately $3.6 million. Last year, a hypothetical
    10% immediate increase in the value of the United States dollar
    relative to all other currencies would have adversely affected
    our 2006 net earnings and cash flows by $2.2 million.

RESULTS
    OF OPERATIONS  

Sales   

2006
    Compared to 2005   

Consolidated net sales increased 3% in 2006 compared to 2005,
    attributable to the following (in millions):

Aircraft Engine Systems 
    sales volume changes

$

21

Price changes

15

Foreign currency translation rate
    changes

(7

)

Industrial Controls  sales
    volume changes

(2

)

Aircraft Engine Systems  sales volume
    changes:   Aircraft Engine Systems 
    improvement continues to reflect the effects of favorable trends
    in commercial aviation. Our commercial OEM sales have increased,
    driven by the higher production levels of narrow-body and
    wide-body aircraft by Boeing and Airbus, especially the A320 and
    Boeing 777. Orders for new aircraft by Asian airlines have been
    particularly strong. Regional jet production by Embraer and
    Bombardier was fairly similar to the prior year. Sales related
    to business jets were up slightly, and we anticipate additional
    growth in 2007 with the launches of the Cessna Mustang and
    Eclipse 500 jets. We also continued to see a trend toward higher
    revenue passenger miles experienced by commercial airlines and
    cargo growth, which drives aircraft usage and has a positive
    effect on our aftermarket sales. We estimate approximately half
    of Aircraft Engine Systems  sales were aftermarket sales in
    2006 and 2005. Sales for military applications in 2006 were
    similar to 2005 levels.

Price changes:   Price changes were made
    primarily in response to material cost increases in Industrial
    Controls. The material cost increases were related to price
    fluctuations of commodities from which mechanical, electronic,
    or electromagnetic components are produced.

Industrial Controls  sales volume
    changes:   Overall, Industrial Controls sales
    volumes were near the same levels achieved a year ago. While
    shipment volumes increased for many of our products, we
    experienced lower sales of turbine combustion products used in
    power generation, alternative fuel systems that are sold to
    Chinese OEMs,

17

Table of Contents   

and pump sales to an Asian customer that secured an alternative
    source. In total, these decreases totaled approximately
    $38 million.

We believe the decrease in sales of turbine combustion products
    is related to inventory adjustments made by our largest
    customer. Customer inventory increased in 2004 and 2005 and was
    reduced in 2006. We believe their inventory is now at
    sustainable levels and will be replenished at approximately
    their rate of sales.

We have attributed the decrease in sales of alternative fuel
    systems for Chinese OEMs to production and ordering patterns
    typical in the Chinese market. Customers in China have shown a
    tendency to batch their orders and engine production in such a
    manner that results in greater variability than is typical among
    customers in other markets.

Increased sales of other products largely offset these
    decreases, including sales of process automation valves and
    actuators that targeted new applications for use in the process
    industry. The core technologies used in fluid systems, which
    have typically been applied to gas engines, gas and steam
    turbines, and compressors, can be applied to the balance of
    plant equipment in process automation applications. In 2006, we
    developed a new product for this adjacent market, generating
    sales of approximately $6 million.

Other increases in sales were primarily driven by increased
    demand for distributed power, marine, and heavy equipment
    applications.

2005
    Compared to 2004   

Consolidated net sales increased 17% in 2005 compared to 2004,
    attributable to the following (in millions):

Industrial Controls  sales
    volume changes

$

89

Aircraft Engine Systems 
    sales volume changes

19

Foreign currency translation rate
    changes

7

Price changes

3

Industrial Controls  sales volume
    changes:   Industrial Controls benefited from a
    broad industrial recovery that included the segment s power
    generation and transportation markets. We experienced higher
    demand for large gas turbine fuel nozzles   the area
    affected most by the severe market declines of 2002 and
    2003   driven in part by power generation improvement
    projects in Asia and Eastern Europe. We also won a number of new
    programs, including one for an alternative fuel engine used in
    Asia, which resulted in increased sales. Use of alternative
    fuels has increased in Asia in recent years due to more
    stringent environmental emission standards and the availability
    of natural gas as a fuel source in the region.

Aircraft Engine Systems  sales volume
    changes:   Aircraft Engine Systems 
    improvement reflects the effects of favorable trends in
    commercial aviation. We experienced modest growth in commercial
    OEM sales, as Boeing and Airbus ramped up their production
    levels for narrow- and wide-body aircraft. We also have seen a
    continuation of the trend toward higher revenue passenger miles
    experienced by commercial airlines and cargo growth, which has
    driven greater utilization of aircraft and higher aftermarket
    sales for us. We estimate approximately half of Aircraft Engine
    Systems  sales were aftermarket sales in 2005 and 2004.

Costs and
    Expenses  

18

Table of Contents   

2006
    Compared to 2005   

Cost of goods sold   decreased 2% in 2006 as
    compared to 2005, attributable to the following (in millions):

Increase in sales volume

$

15

Effects of the consolidation of
    European operations, among other less significant cost changes

(10

)

Foreign currency translation rate
    changes

(6

)

Lower performance-based variable
    compensation

(6

)

Changes in segment sales mix

(2

)

Lower workforce management costs

(2

)

The effect of increased sales volume on cost of goods sold was
    measured as if these costs increased in direct proportion to the
    sales volume increase.

Costs of goods sold benefited from the effects of Industrial
    Controls  European consolidation, which we completed in
    March 2006. A more detailed discussion of the European
    consolidation is included under  Workforce Management
    Actions  below.

Variable compensation paid to members in direct and indirect
    manufacturing functions was lower in 2006 than in 2005. Each
    year, a portion of our members  compensation will vary
    depending on performance-based factors.

The percent increase in Aircraft Engine Systems  sales
    volume (7%) was greater than the percent increase in Industrial
    Controls  sales volume (0%). However, Aircraft Engine
    Systems  average margins are higher than those of
    Industrial Controls. As a result, the resulting change in
    segment sales mix decreased cost of goods sold in the analysis
    presented above.

We incurred cost of goods sold related to workforce management
    actions that totaled $1.7 million in 2005. These costs were
    largely attributable to termination benefits for members in
    direct and indirect manufacturing functions.

Selling, general, and administrative expenses
      increased 15% in 2006 as compared to 2005, attributable
    to the following (in millions):

Accruals for contingent legal
    matters

$

9

Stock-based compensation expense

3

We accrue for individual matters that we believe are likely to
    result in a loss when ultimately resolved using estimates of the
    most likely amount of loss, including accruals totaling
    $8.5 million in 2006. More information about contingencies
    is included under  Commitments and Contingencies 
    below.

At the beginning of 2006, we began to account for stock-based
    compensation using the fair value method of accounting as
    required under a new accounting standard. We used the intrinsic
    value method in previous years, under which we did not recognize
    compensation expense in association with options granted at or
    above the market price of our common stock at the date of grant.
    More information about the effect of this accounting change is
    included under  Stock-Based Compensation  below.

Research and development costs   increased 20% in
    2006 over 2005 attributable to the following (in millions):

Aircraft Engine Systems 
    development activities

$

6

Industrial Controls 
    development activities

4

Aircraft Engine Systems is developing new aircraft gas turbine
    programs for both commercial and military aircraft. Many of
    these development programs began in 2005 or earlier and were
    fully engaged throughout 2006. Most significantly we are
    developing components and an integrated fuel system for the new
    GEnx turbofan engine for the Boeing 787, Airbus A350, and Boeing
     747-8,  and
    components for the GE Rolls-Royce F136 engine that is one of two
    propulsion choices to power Lockheed s Joint Strike Fighter
    aircraft, and components for the
     T700-GE-701D 
    engine that will be used to upgrade the Sikorsky Black Hawk and
    Boeing Apache helicopters, among others.

19

Table of Contents   

We also increased development activities in Industrial Controls,
    most notably in conjunction with customers  development
    programs as we work closely with our customers early in their
    own development and design stages, helping them by developing
    components and integrated systems that allow them to meet
    emissions requirements, increase fuel efficiency, and lower
    their costs. We also continue to develop products for the
    turbine auxiliary market. Turbine auxiliary applications offer
    multiple opportunities to leverage our existing hydraulic and
    electric actuation and valve technologies for off-engine
    applications.

Curtailment gain   relates to an amount recognized
    in 2005 for the immediate effects of amendments to one of our
    retirement healthcare benefit plans. The amendment eliminated
    retirement healthcare benefits for members that did not attain
    age 55 and 10 years of service by January 1, 2006.

Interest and other income   decreased in 2006 from
    2005 primarily as a result of the 2005 sale of rights to our
    aircraft propeller synchronizer products to an unrelated third
    party, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $3.8 million.

2005
    Compared to 2004   

Cost of goods sold   increased 15% in 2005 as
    compared to 2004, attributable to the following (in millions):

Increase in net sales

$

90

Lower workforce management costs

(11

)

Higher performance-based variable
    compensation

6

Changes in segment sales mix

3

Other factors, net

(7

)

The effect of increased sales on cost of goods sold was measured
    as if these costs increased in direct proportion to the 17%
    sales increase. However, there are many factors that affected
    cost of goods sold other than volume, the most important of
    which are discussed in the paragraphs that follow.

We incurred cost of goods sold related to workforce management
    actions that totaled $1.7 million in 2005 and
    $12.4 million in 2004, netting to a decrease of
    $10.7 million. These costs were largely attributable to
    termination benefits for members in direct and indirect
    manufacturing functions.

Variable compensation paid to members in direct and indirect
    manufacturing functions was higher in 2005 than in 2004. Each
    year, a portion of our members  compensation will vary
    depending on performance-based factors, including consolidated
    financial results.

The percent increase in Industrial Controls sales (22%) was
    greater than the percent increase in Aircraft Engine Systems
    sales (8%). However, Industrial Controls  average margins
    are not as high as those of Aircraft Engine Systems. As a
    result, the resulting change in segment sales mix increased cost
    of goods sold in the analysis presented above.

Among the other factors affecting cost of goods sold were the
    favorable operating leverage effect of the increased sales
    versus the fixed cost components of cost of goods sold, sales
    mix within each segment, and changes in material costs.

Selling, general, and administrative expenses
      increased 13% in 2005 as compared to 2004, attributable
    to the following (in millions):

Higher performance-based variable
    compensation

$

3

Internal control assessment and
    audit expenses

2

Other factors, net

4

Variable compensation paid to members in selling and
    administrative functions was higher in 2005 than in 2004, driven
    by performance-based factors, including consolidated financial
    results.

In 2005, we incurred significant expense in assessing our
    internal control over financial reporting, as required by the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We also incurred higher external
    audit fees associated with the expanded audit scope required by
    the Act.

20

Table of Contents   

Among the other factors affecting selling, general, and
    administrative expenses are normal variations in legal and other
    professional services and gains and losses related to
    transactions denominated in foreign currencies.

Research and development costs   increased 25% in
    2005 over 2004 attributable to the following (in millions):

Industrial Controls 
    development activities

$

4

Aircraft Engine Systems 
    development activities

3

Higher performance-based variable
    compensation

3

We increased development activities in Industrial Controls, most
    notably in combustion sensing technologies and in product
    development for the turbine auxiliary market. Turbine auxiliary
    applications offer multiple opportunities to leverage our
    existing hydraulic and electric actuation and valve technologies
    for off-engine applications. We also work closely with our
    customers early in their own development and design stages,
    helping them by developing components and integrated systems
    that allow them to meet emissions requirements, increase fuel
    efficiency, and lower their costs.

Aircraft Engine Systems  development activities also
    increased, driven by new aircraft gas turbine programs for both
    commercial and military aircraft. Most significantly, we are
    developing components and an integrated fuel system for the new
    GEnx turbofan engine for the Boeing 787, Airbus A350, and Boeing
    747 Advanced. We are also developing components for the GE
    Rolls-Royce F136 engine that is one of two propulsion choices to
    power Lockheed s Joint Strike Fighter aircraft, and for the
    T700-GE-701D engine that will be used to upgrade the Sikorsky
    Black Hawk and Boeing Apache helicopters, among others.

Variable compensation paid to members that performed research
    and development activities was higher in 2005 than in 2004,
    driven by performance-based factors, including consolidated
    financial results.

Curtailment gain   relates to an amount recognized
    in 2005 for the immediate effects of amendments to one of our
    retirement healthcare benefit plans. The amendment eliminated
    retirement healthcare benefits for members that will not attain
    age 55 and 10 years of service by January 1, 2006.

Interest and other income   increased in 2005 over
    2004 primarily as a result of the sale of rights to our aircraft
    propeller synchronizer products to an unrelated third party,
    which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $3.8 million. In
    addition, our interest income increased in 2005 over 2004 as a
    result of higher cash balances.

Sales associated with the aircraft propeller synchronizer
    products totaled approximately $2 million annually at the
    time we sold rights to the products to a third party.

Stock-Based
    Compensation   

We adopted a new accounting standard for stock-based
    compensation beginning October 1, 2005  
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R,
     Share-Based Payment.  This standard requires us to
    measure employee compensation made in the form of stock-based
    instruments at the grant-date fair value of the stock-based
    award and to recognize the compensation over the requisite
    service period. Upon adoption, we used the modified prospective
    application transition method, under which prior periods are not
    restated in the financial statements.

Prior to October 1, 2005, we used the intrinsic value
    method to account for stock-based employee compensation under
    Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
     Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  and
    therefore we did not recognize compensation expense in
    association with options granted at or above the market price of
    our common stock at the date of grant.

The effect of adopting the new accounting standard on 2006
    earnings was that earnings before income taxes were reduced by
    $2.9 million and net earnings were reduced by
    $1.8 million, or $0.05 per basic share and
    $0.05 per diluted share. Stock compensation is accounted
    for as a nonsegment expense. We expect stock compensation
    expense in 2007 to be at levels similar to the amount recognized
    in 2006, although actual amounts will depend upon a number of
    factors, including our common stock price at the date of grant.

If we had applied the provisions of the new accounting standard
    last year, our earnings before income taxes for 2005 would have
    been reduced by $2.4 million and our net earnings would
    have been reduced by $1.5 million, or $0.05 per basic
    share and $0.04 per diluted share.

21

Table of Contents   

Adoption of the new accounting standards also affected our
    presentation of cash flows. The change is related to tax
    benefits associated with tax deductions that exceed the amount
    of compensation expense recognized in financial statements. For
    2006, cash flows from operating activities was reduced by
    $3.3 million and cash flow from financing activities was
    increased by $3.3 million from amounts that would have been
    reported prior to the accounting change.

At September 30, 2006, the amount of stock compensation
    expense that has not yet been recognized totaled
    $4.7 million. This amount is related to stock options that
    have been granted but have not yet vested.

Workforce
    Management Actions  

The workforce management actions reflected in the preceding
    table, all of which are associated with Industrial Controls, are
    primarily related to the consolidation of manufacturing
    operations in The Netherlands and United Kingdom with
    existing operations in the United States and Germany. The
    actions also involve the consolidation of a small manufacturing
    operation in Japan with an existing operation in China and sales
    force reductions in The Netherlands. These actions were taken to
    streamline the organization by eliminating redundant
    manufacturing operations and to adjust the sales force in
    response to market shifts from Europe to Asia and North America.
    The actions were completed in March 2006. In total,
    approximately 250 positions were eliminated from the three
    locations.

Principally in 2004, we expensed a total of $15.9 million
    for these actions, which includes $12.0 million for member
    termination benefits under ongoing termination benefit plans,
    $2.1 million of contractual pension termination benefits,
    and $1.8 million for other costs primarily associated with
    moving equipment and inventory to other locations. With the
    exception of the contractual pension termination benefits, all
    expenses were cash expenses that were paid from available cash
    balances without the need for incremental borrowings.

In 2004, our expense for these actions totaled
    $13.8 million, which primarily consisted of member
    termination benefits related to ongoing termination benefit
    plans for member service through September 30, 2004. In
    addition, we expensed contractual pension termination benefits
    resulting from the retirement pension benefit plan provisions
    that provided early retirement benefits for certain plan
    participants in the event of a workforce management action.

Our expenses for these actions were $1.7 million in 2005
    and $0.4 million in 2006, equal to the total amounts reflected
    in the preceding table. The expenses included member termination
    benefits that reflected amounts earned by members during their
    service periods in 2005 and 2006, additional contractual pension
    termination benefits for eligible participants, other costs
    primarily associated with moving equipment and inventory to
    other locations, and adjustments of amounts previously accrued
    for these actions. The accrual adjustments were made as a result
    of changes in estimates for termination benefits payable because
    of voluntary member resignations, the transfer of members to a
    third-party distributor, and more members electing early
    retirement options.

Although it is difficult to precisely estimate the savings that
    are uniquely related to these actions, we believe that current
    annual expense levels are $9.0 million to
    $11.0 million lower than they would have been prior to the
    actions. The lower expenses are primarily related to reductions
    in personnel costs, although savings in travel and other costs
    associated with the reduced headcount have also been realized.
    Of the total savings, approximately 90% affects cost of goods
    sold and 10% selling, general, and administrative expenses.

For 2004, the preceding table also reflects amounts related to
    previous actions of Industrial Controls, the most significant of
    which is a reduction in accrued member termination benefits of
    $0.7 million. This accrual reduction was a direct result of
    decisions to discontinue the remaining actions from the previous
    year given the newly-formed consolidation plans.

22

Table of Contents   

Earnings  

2006
    Compared to 2005   

Industrial Controls  segment earnings
      increased 93% in 2006 as compared to 2005, attributable
    to the following (in millions):

Selling price changes

$

12

Effects of the consolidation of
    European operations, among other less significant cost and
    expense changes

13

Lower performance-based variable
    compensation

4

Higher research and development
    costs

(4

)

Lower workforce management costs

2

Selling price increases were made primarily to offset certain
    material cost increases, which were related to price
    fluctuations of commodities from which mechanical, electronic,
    or electromagnetic components are produced. Typically, selling
    price increases lag material cost increases for some period of
    time, which varies depending upon individual circumstances.

Industrial Controls  earnings benefited from the effects of
    the European consolidation that we completed in March 2006. A
    more detailed discussion of the European consolidation is
    included under workforce management actions in a previous
    section of this discussion and analysis.

Variable compensation paid to Industrial Controls  members
    was lower in 2006 than in 2005, driven by performance-based
    factors.

Industrial Controls  research and development cost
    increases were discussed previously as part of costs and
    expenses.

Industrial Controls incurred costs related to workforce
    management actions that totaled $1.7 million in 2005.

Aircraft Engine Systems  segment earnings   in
    2006 were about the same as in 2005, attributable to the
    following (in millions):

Increase in sales volume

$

7

Higher research and development
    costs

(7

)

Gain on sale of product rights in
    2005

(4

)

Lower performance-based variable
    compensation

3

Selling price changes

3

Other factors, net

(2

)

23

Table of Contents   

The effect of the increase in sales volume on Aircraft Engine
    Systems  segment earnings was measured as if gross margins
    had increased in direct proportion to the sales volume increase
    without other changes. However, there are many factors that
    affected segment earnings other than volume, the most important
    of which are discussed in the paragraphs that follow.

Aircraft Engine Systems  research and development cost
    increases were discussed previously as part of costs and
    expenses.

Aircraft Engine Systems sold the rights to its propeller
    synchronizer products to an unrelated third party in 2005, which
    resulted in a pre-tax gain of $3.8 million that year.

Variable compensation paid to Aircraft Engine Systems 
    members was lower in 2006 than in 2005, driven by
    performance-based factors.

Nonsegment expenses   increased 82% in 2006 as
    compared to 2005, attributable to the following (in millions):

Accruals for contingent legal
    matters

$

9

Stock-based compensation expense

3

Other factors, net

3

We accrue for individual matters that we believe are likely to
    result in a loss when ultimately resolved using estimates of the
    most likely amount of loss, including accruals totaling
    $8.5 million in 2006. More information about contingencies
    is included under  Commitments and Contingencies 
    below.

At the beginning of 2006, we began to account for stock-based
    compensation using the fair value method of accounting as
    required under a new accounting standard. We used the intrinsic
    value method in previous years, under which we did not recognize
    compensation expense in association with options granted at or
    above the market price of our common stock at the date of grant.
    More information about the effect of this accounting change is
    included under  Stock-Based Compensation  above.

Among the other factors affecting nonsegment expenses are normal
    variations in legal and other professional services.

Curtailment gain   was discussed previously as part
    of costs and expenses.

Income taxes   were provided at an effective rate on
    earnings before income taxes of 17.3% in 2006 compared to 29.2%
    in 2005. The change in the effective tax rate was attributable
    to the following (as a percent of earnings before income taxes):

The 2006 change in the
     beginning-of-year 
    valuation allowances reduced income tax expense by
    $13.7 million. Exclusive of this item, the effective tax
    rate for 2006 was 33.5%. We establish valuation allowances to
    reflect the estimated amount of deferred tax assets that might
    not be realized. Both positive and negative evidence are
    considered in forming our judgment as to whether a valuation
    allowance is appropriate, and more weight is given to evidence
    that can be objectively verified. Valuation allowances are
    reassessed whenever there are changes in circumstances that may
    cause a change in our judgments. In 2006, additional objective
    evidence became available regarding earnings in tax
    jurisdictions that have unexpired net operating loss
    carryforwards that affected our judgment about the valuation
    allowance.

Income taxes for both 2006 and 2005 were affected by changes in
    estimates of income taxes for previous years. In 2006, the
    changes were primarily related to the favorable resolution of
    certain tax matters. These changes reduced the effective tax
    rate for 2006 by approximately 1.3% of pretax earnings. In 2005,
    the changes in estimates were related to increases in the amount
    of certain credits claimed and changes in the amount of certain
    deductions

24

Table of Contents   

taken as compared to prior estimates. These changes reduced
    reported income taxes by $1.9 million in 2005, or
    approximately 2.5% of pretax earnings.

The effective tax rate comparison between 2006 and 2005 was
    affected by the expiration of the tax credit for increasing
    research activities, which expired on December 31, 2005.

Among the other changes in our effective tax rate were the
    effects of changes in the amounts of extraterritorial income
    exclusion and the effects of changes in the relative mix of
    earnings by tax jurisdiction, which affects the comparison of
    foreign and state income tax rates relative to the United States
    federal statutory rate.

2005
    Compared to 2004   

Industrial Controls  segment earnings   were
    $29 million in 2005 compared to $6 million in 2004.
    The change was attributable to the following (in millions):

Increase in sales volume

$

18

Workforce management actions, net

11

Higher performance-based variable
    compensation

(6

)

Higher research and development
    costs

(4

)

Other factors, net

3

The effect of the increase in sales volume on Industrial
    Controls  segment earnings was measured as if gross margins
    (external net sales less external cost of goods sold) had
    increased in direct proportion to the sales volume increase
    without other changes. However, there are many factors that
    affected segment earnings other than volume, the most important
    of which are discussed in the paragraphs that follow.

Industrial Controls incurred costs related to workforce
    management actions that totaled $1.7 million in 2005 and
    $12.9 million in 2004, netting to a decrease of
    $11.2 million.

Variable compensation paid to Industrial Controls  members
    was higher in 2005 than in 2004, driven by performance-based
    factors, including consolidated financial results.

Industrial Controls  research and development cost
    increases were discussed previously as part of costs and
    expenses.

Among other factors affecting the comparison of Industrial
    Controls  segment earnings between 2005 and 2004 were the
    favorable operating leverage effect of the increased sales
    versus the fixed cost components of cost of goods sold and other
    fixed expenses, sales mix, changes in material costs, normal
    variations in legal services, and losses related to transactions
    denominated in foreign currencies.

Aircraft Engine Systems  segment earnings
      increased 8% in 2005 as compared to 2004, attributable
    to the following (in millions):

Increase in sales volume

$

6

Gain on sale of product rights

4

Higher performance-based variable
    compensation

(4

)

Higher research and development
    costs

(3

)

Other factors, net

2

The effect of the increase in sales volume on Aircraft Engine
    Systems  segment earnings was measured as if gross margins
    had increased in direct proportion to the sales volume increase
    without other changes. However, there are many factors that
    affected segment earnings other than volume, the most important
    of which are discussed in the paragraphs that follow.

Aircraft Engine Systems sold the rights to its propeller
    synchronizer products to an unrelated third party in 2005, which
    resulted in a pre-tax gain of $3.8 million.

Variable compensation paid to Aircraft Engine Systems 
    members was higher in 2005 than in 2004, driven by
    performance-based factors, including consolidated financial
    results.

25

Table of Contents   

Aircraft Engine Systems  research and development cost
    increases were discussed previously as part of costs and
    expenses.

Among other factors affecting the comparison of Aircraft Engine
    Systems  segment earnings between 2005 and 2004 were the
    favorable operating leverage effect of the increased sales
    versus the fixed cost components of cost of goods sold and other
    fixed expenses.

Nonsegment expenses   increased 48% in 2005 as
    compared to 2004, attributable to the following (in millions):

Internal control assessment and
    audit expenses

$

2

Higher performance-based variable
    compensation

2

Other factors, net

2

In 2005, we incurred significant expense in assessing our
    internal control over financial reporting, as required by the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We also incurred higher external
    audit fees associated with the expanded audit scope required by
    the Act.

Variable compensation paid to corporate members was higher in
    2005 than in 2004, driven by performance-based factors,
    including consolidated financial results.

Among the other factors affecting nonsegment expenses were
    normal variations in legal and other professional services.

Curtailment gain   was discussed previously as part
    of costs and expenses.

Income taxes   were provided at an effective rate on
    earnings before income taxes of 29.2% in 2005 compared to 36.3%
    in 2004. The change in the effective tax rate was attributable
    to the following (as a percent of earnings before income taxes):

Income taxes for 2005 were affected by changes in estimates of
    income taxes for previous years, which resulted from increases
    in the amounts of certain credits claimed and changes in the
    amounts of certain deductions taken. These changes reduced
    reported income taxes by $1.9 million, or 2.5% of earnings
    before income taxes.

The effects of foreign losses on income taxes increased our
    effective tax rate by 0.1% in 2005 compared to 2.1% in 2004.
    Foreign losses affect income taxes in situations in which we are
    unable to use the losses to offset earnings in particular tax
    jurisdictions, resulting in net operating loss carryforwards. In
    both years, we recorded a valuation allowance to reflect the
    estimated amount of deferred tax assets that may not be realized
    due to foreign net operating loss carryforwards.

The federal tax credit for 2005 for increasing research
    activities reduced our effective tax rate by 1.7% compared to
    2004. The credit was based on the level of current year research
    costs relative to gross receipts and research costs in certain
    prior periods.

Among the other changes in our effective tax rate were the
    effects of changes in the relative mix of earnings by tax
    jurisdiction, which affected the comparison of foreign and state
    income tax rates relative to the United States federal statutory
    rate.

Subsequent
    Event  

On October 31, 2006, we acquired 100 percent of the
    stock of SEG Schaltanlagen-Elektronik-Ger te
    GmbH & Co. KG (SEG) and a related receivable from SEG
    that was held by one of the sellers. Headquartered in Kempen,
    Germany, SEG is focused on the design and manufacture of a wide
    range of protection and comprehensive control systems for power
    generation and distribution applications, power inverters for
    wind turbines, and complete electrical systems for gas and
    diesel engine based power stations. The cost of this acquisition
    has not yet been

26

Table of Contents   

finalized, but is currently expected to be approximately
    $45 million, including the amount of outstanding borrowings
    assumed. The actual cost of the acquisition may be higher or
    lower than our current estimate based on the outcome of a
    purchase price adjustment procedure customary to purchase
    agreements and the final determination of the direct acquisition
    costs. SEG had sales of approximately $60 million in the
    year ended December 31, 2005. SEG will be part of the
    Industrial Controls segment, and we currently expect the
    acquisition to be accretive to earnings in 2007.

Outlook   

Aerospace markets are on an upswing, and we currently anticipate
    Aircraft Engine Systems  sales will increase
     10-12%  in
    2007. These increases are expected for both OEM and aftermarket
    sales, with slightly more growth among OEMs. In relation to
    sales, our segment earnings are expected to remain relatively
    stable with 2006, between
     20-22%  of
    sales.

We expect more modest market growth in the industrial markets
    served by Industrial Controls. However, the business acquisition
    completed in October 2006 will allow Industrial Controls 
    sales to exceed anticipated market growth rates. With the
    effects of the acquisition, we currently believe Industrial
    Controls  sales will grow
     13-16%  in
    2007. Segment earnings are expected to be between
     10-12%  of
    sales.

Overall, we anticipate company-wide sales growth of
     12-15%  and
    earnings of $2.05 to $2.15 per share in fiscal 2007,
    including the effects of the acquisition just completed.

FINANCIAL
    CONDITION  

Assets  

Industrial Controls  segment assets   at
    September 30, 2006, decreased over the prior year primarily
    as a result of lower levels of inventories and normal
    amortization of intangible assets.

Aircraft Engine Systems  segment assets   at
    September 30, 2006, increased over the prior year as a
    result of higher levels of business activity in 2006 and 2005,
    which resulted in higher accounts receivable and inventories. In
    addition, capital expenditures increased in 2006 to a level that
    exceeded depreciation expense, resulting in higher property,
    plant, and equipment.

Unallocated assets   at September 30, 2006,
    increased over the prior year primarily because of changes in
    valuation allowances for deferred tax assets.

Other
    Balance Sheet Measures  

Working capital   (total current assets less total
    current liabilities) at September 30, 2006, increased over
    the prior year primarily as a result of increases in accounts
    receivable and a decrease in short-term borrowings.

Long-term debt, less current portion   at
    September 30, 2006, decreased from the prior year to
    reflect the amount of long-term debt paid in 2006. The current
    portion of long-term debt remained approximately the same.

27

Table of Contents   

We currently have a revolving line of credit facility with a
    syndicate of U.S. banks totaling $100 million, with an
    option to increase the amount of the line to $175 million
    if we choose. The line of credit facility expires on
    March 11, 2010. In addition, we have other line of credit
    facilities, which totaled $17.7 million at
    September 30, 2006, that are generally reviewed annually
    for renewal. The total amount of borrowings under all facilities
    was $0.5 million at September 30, 2006. The
    weighted-average interest rate for outstanding borrowings under
    these line of credit facilities, which were in Japan at rates
    significantly lower than those typical in the United States, was
    0.5% at September 30, 2006.

Provisions of debt agreements include covenants customary to
    such agreements that require us to maintain specified minimum or
    maximum financial measures and place limitations on various
    investing and financing activities. The agreements also permit
    the lenders to accelerate repayment requirements in the event of
    a material adverse event. Our most restrictive covenants require
    us to maintain a minimum consolidated net worth, a maximum
    consolidated debt to consolidated operating cash flow, and a
    maximum consolidated debt to EBITDA, as defined in the
    agreements. We were in compliance with all covenants at
    September 30, 2006.

Commitments and contingencies   at
    September 30, 2006, include various matters arising from
    the normal course of business. We are currently involved in
    pending or threatened litigation or other legal proceedings
    regarding employment, product liability, and contractual matters
    arising from the normal course of business. We accrued for
    individual matters that we believe are likely to result in a
    loss when ultimately resolved using estimates of the most likely
    amount of loss, including accruals totaling $8.5 million
    that were recorded in 2006. There are also individual matters
    that we believe the likelihood of a loss when ultimately
    resolved is less than likely but more than remote, which were
    not accrued. While it is possible that there could be additional
    losses that have not been accrued, we currently believe the
    possible additional loss in the event of an unfavorable
    resolution of each matter is less than $10 million in the
    aggregate.

Among the legal proceedings referred to in the preceding
    paragraph, we were a defendant in a class action lawsuit filed
    in the U.S. District Court for Northern District of
    Illinois and received findings of the U.S. Equal Employment
    Opportunity Commission that alleged discrimination on the basis
    of race, national origin, and gender in our Winnebago County,
    Illinois, facilities. On October 5, 2006, a
    U.S. District Court Judge gave preliminary approval to a
    proposed $5 million settlement of the class action and EEOC
    matters. Accruals for the amount of the settlement and related
    legal expenses are included in our consolidated balance sheet at
    September 30, 2006.

We file income tax returns in various jurisdictions worldwide,
    which are subject to audit. We have accrued for our estimate of
    the most likely amount of expense that we believe may result
    from income tax audit adjustments.

We do not recognize contingencies that might result in a gain
    until such contingencies are resolved and the related amounts
    are realized.

In the event of a change in control of the company, we may be
    required to pay termination benefits to certain executive
    officers.

Shareholders  equity   at September 30,
    2006, increased 11% over the prior year. Increases due to net
    earnings, sales of treasury stock, tax benefits applicable to
    stock options, and stock-based compensation were partially
    offset by purchases of treasury stock and dividend payments.

On January 26, 2005, the Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to $30 million of our outstanding shares
    of common stock on the open market and private transactions over
    a three-year period. This authorization was terminated on
    July 25, 2006, concurrent with the approval of a new stock
    repurchase authorization.

On July 25, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of up to $50 million of our outstanding shares
    of common stock on the open market and private transactions over
    a three-year period that will end on July 25, 2009.

28

Table of Contents   

In 2006, we purchased $21.5 million of our common stock
    under these authorizations as follows:

A
     three-for-one 
    stock split was approved by shareholders at the 2005 annual
    meeting of shareholders on January 25, 2006. This stock
    split became effective for shareholders at the close of business
    on February 1, 2006. The effects of the stock split are
    reflected in the financial statements filed as part of this
     Form 10-K. 
    In addition, in accordance with stock option plan provisions,
    the terms of all outstanding stock option awards were
    proportionally adjusted.

Contractual
    Obligations  

The preceding table reflects contractual obligations at
    September 30, 2006, but excludes future interest payments
    associated with
     long-term 
    debt and our retirement pension and retirement healthcare
    obligations. Our contributions to retirement pension benefit
    plans totaled $3.3 million in 2006 and $1.8 million in
    2005, and we currently expect our contributions for 2007 will
    total approximately $3.0 million. Pension contributions in
    future years will vary as a result of a number of factors,
    including actual plan asset returns and interest rates.

Our contributions to retirement healthcare benefit plans totaled
    $3.0 million in 2006 and $2.4 million in 2005, and we
    currently estimate our contributions for 2007 will total
    approximately $3.4 million, less the amount of federal
    subsidies associated with our prescription drug benefits that we
    receive. Retirement healthcare contributions are made on a
     pay-as-you-go  basis as payments are made to
    healthcare providers, and such contributions will vary as a
    result of changes in the future cost of healthcare benefits
    provided for covered retirees.

More information about our retirement benefit obligations is
    included in the notes to the consolidated financial statements
    in  Item 8   Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data. 

We enter into purchase obligations with suppliers in the normal
    course of business, on a short-term basis.

Cash
    Flows  

2006
    Compared to 2005   

Net cash flows provided by operating activities
      increased 16% in 2006 over 2005. Cash receipts from
    customers and cash payments to suppliers and employees increased
    proportionately with the overall increase in sales. As a result,
    net cash flows were higher in 2006 than in 2005 because of the
    operating earnings generated on sales. In addition, income tax
    payments for 2006 were lower than 2005.

Net cash flows used in investing activities
      increased by $8.1 million in 2006 as compared to
    2005. This reflected an increase in capital expenditures of
    $5.1 million and a decrease in proceeds from the sales of
    property, plant, and equipment. Aircraft Engine Systems
    accounted for most of the increase in capital expenditures,
    which related to equipment and facility upgrades. Proceeds from
    the sale of property, plant, and equipment were higher in 2005
    than in 2006 because of sales related to the consolidation of
    our European facilities.

29

Table of Contents   

Net cash flows used in financing activities
      increased by $40.9 million in 2006 as compared to
    2005. Net payments of borrowings were $22.5 million in
    2006, compared to net proceeds from borrowings of
    $2.0 million in 2005. In addition, we increased the amount
    of cash used for the purchase of our common stock by
    $15.0 million in 2006 over 2005 and increased cash
    dividends by $1.9 million.

Our 2005 and 2006 purchases of common stock were primarily made
    in connection with authorizations by the Board of Directors made
    in January 26, 2005, and July 25, 2006. The Board
    terminated the 2005 authorization concurrent with their approval
    of the 2006 authorization. The 2006 authorization provides for
    the repurchase of up to $50 million of our common stock on
    the open market and private transactions over a three-year
    period. Approximately $43 million remains available for
    repurchase under the authorization at September 30, 2006.

2005
    Compared to 2004   

Net cash flows provided by operating activities
      decreased 19% in 2005 from 2004. Both operating cash
    receipts and disbursements increased in 2005 over 2004 due to
    higher sales volume. However, cash paid to employees and
    suppliers increased at a greater rate than cash collected from
    customers, reflecting normal variations in collection and
    payment patterns. In addition, income tax payments increased in
    2005 over 2004, resulting in an income tax receivable position
    at September 30, 2005, compared to a payable position at
    September 30, 2004.

Net cash flows used in investing activities
      increased by $2.6 million in 2005 as compared to
    2004. This reflected an increase in capital expenditures of
    $7.9 million, which was partially offset by the effects of
    changes in proceeds from the sale of property, plant, and
    equipment, and net payments associated with business
    acquisitions that were made in 2004.

Net cash flows used in financing activities
      decreased by $29.5 million between 2005 and 2004,
    primarily as a result of changes in borrowings. Net proceeds
    from borrowings totaled $2.0 million in 2005 compared to
    net payments of borrowings of $30.4 million in 2004. In
    addition, both proceeds from the sale of treasury stock, which
    were related to the exercise of stock options, and purchases of
    treasury stock were higher in 2005 than in 2004. The effect of
    these treasury stock transactions on cash flows resulted in net
    use of cash of $0.6 million in 2005 and a net source of
    cash of $1.3 million in 2004. Our dividend payments also
    increased by $1.0 million in 2005 over 2004 as a result of
    increases in our quarterly dividend rate.

The 2005 treasury stock purchases were made in connection with a
    Board authorization that expired in July 2006. The 2004 treasury
    stock purchases were made in connection with a Board
    authorization that expired in November 2004.

Outlook   

Future cash flows from operations and available revolving lines
    of credit are expected to be adequate to meet our cash
    requirements over the next twelve months.

Payments of our $64 million of senior notes are due over
    the 2007   2012 timeframe. Also, we have a
    $100 million line of credit facility that includes an
    option to increase the amount of the line up to
    $175 million that does not expire until March 11,
    2010. Also, the acquisition completed on October 31, 2006,
    as discussed under  Subsequent Events  above, was paid
    from available cash balances. Despite these factors, it is
    possible business acquisitions could be made in the future that
    would require amendments to existing debt agreements and the
    need to obtain additional financing.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements  

A discussion of recent accounting pronouncements is included in
    the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
     Item 8   Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data. 

Item 7A.         Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Disclosures about market risk are included in
     Item 7   Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Market Risks. 

30

Table of Contents   

Item 8.         Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

Consolidated
    Statements of Earnings   
           WOODWARD   

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. 

31

Table of Contents   

Consolidated
    Balance Sheets   
           WOODWARD   

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. 

32

Table of Contents   

Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows   
           WOODWARD   

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. 

33

Table of Contents   

Consolidated
    Statements of Shareholders  Equity   
           WOODWARD   

34

Table of Contents   

Consolidated
    Statements of Shareholders 
    Equity   (Continued)   
           WOODWARD   

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. 

35

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

Note 1.   

Significant
    accounting policies:  

Principles of consolidation:   The consolidated
    financial statements include the accounts of the company and its
    majority-owned subsidiaries. Transactions within and between
    these companies are eliminated. Results of joint ventures in
    which the company does not have a controlling financial interest
    are included in the financial statements using the equity method
    of accounting.

Stock-split:   A
     three-for-one 
    stock split was approved by shareholders at the 2005 annual
    meeting of shareholders on January 25, 2006. The stock
    split became effective for shareholders at the close of business
    on February 1, 2006. The number of shares and per share
    amounts reported in these consolidated financial statements have
    been updated from amounts reported prior to February 1,
    2006, to reflect the effects of the split. In addition, in
    accordance with stock option plan provisions, the terms of all
    outstanding stock option awards were proportionally adjusted.

Use of estimates:   Financial statements
    prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States require the use of estimates and
    assumptions that affect amounts reported. Actual results could
    differ materially from our estimates.

Foreign currency translation:   The assets and
    liabilities of substantially all subsidiaries outside the United
    States are translated at year-end rates of exchange, and
    earnings and cash flow statements are translated at
    weighted-average rates of exchange. Translation adjustments are
    accumulated with other comprehensive earnings as a separate
    component of shareholders  equity and are presented net of
    tax effects in the consolidated statements of shareholders 
    equity. The effects of changes in exchange rates on loans
    between consolidated subsidiaries that are not expected to be
    repaid in the foreseeable future are also accumulated with other
    comprehensive earnings.

Revenue recognition:   We recognize sales when
    delivery of product has occurred or services have been rendered
    and there is persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement, selling
    prices are fixed or determinable, and collectibility from the
    customer is reasonably assured. We consider product delivery to
    have occurred when the customer has taken title and assumed the
    risks and rewards of ownership of the products. Most of our
    sales are made directly to customers that use our products,
    although we also sell products to distributors, dealers, and
    independent service facilities. Sales terms for distributors,
    dealers, and independent service facilities are identical to our
    sales terms for direct customers. We account for payments made
    to customers as a reduction of revenue unless they are made in
    exchange for identifiable goods or services with fair values
    that can be reasonably estimated. These reductions in revenues
    are recognized immediately to the extent that the payments
    cannot be attributed to expected future sales, and are
    recognized in future periods to the extent that the payments
    relate to future sales, based on the specific facts and
    circumstances underlying each payment.

Stock-based compensation:   On October 1,
    2005, we began to measure the cost of employee services in
    exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the
    grant-date fair value of the award and to recognize the cost
    over the requisite service period in accordance with Statement
    of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R,
     Share-Based Payment.  Prior to October 1, 2005,
    we used the intrinsic value method to account for stock-based
    employee compensation under Accounting Principles Board Opinion
    No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
    Employees,  and therefore we did not recognize compensation
    expense in association with options granted at or above the
    market price of our common stock at the date of grant. Upon
    adoption of the new accounting method, we used the modified
    prospective transition method, under which financial statements
    for periods prior to the date of adoption were not adjusted for
    the change in accounting.

As a result of adopting the new standard, earnings before income
    taxes for 2006 decreased by $2,942 , and net earnings decreased
    by $1,824 , or $0.05 per basic share and $0.05 per
    diluted share. These results reflect stock compensation expense
    of $2,942 and tax benefits of $1,118.

36

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

Adoption of the new standard also affected our consolidated
    statements of cash flows. The change is related to tax benefits
    associated with tax deductions that exceed the amount of
    compensation expense recognized in financial statements. Cash
    flow from operating activities was reduced by $3,305 and cash
    flow from financing activities was increased by $3,305 in 2006
    from amounts that would have been reported if we had not adopted
    the new accounting standard.

Concurrent with our adoption of the new statement, we began to
    use the non-substantive vesting period approach for attributing
    stock compensation to individual periods. The nominal vesting
    period approach was used in determining the stock compensation
    expense for the pro forma 2005 and 2004 net earnings in a
    table that follows. The change in the attribution method will
    not affect the ultimate amount of stock compensation expense
    recognized, but it has accelerated the recognition of such
    expense for non-substantive vesting conditions, such as
    retirement eligibility provisions. Under both approaches, we
    elected to recognize stock compensation on a straight-line basis
    for options with graded vesting schedules. As a result of the
    change in attribution method, earnings before income taxes for
    2006 were reduced by approximately $260, and net earnings were
    reduced by $161, which had no effect on basic and diluted
    earnings per share.

The following table presents a reconciliation of reported net
    earnings and per share information to pro forma net earnings and
    per share information that would have been reported if the fair
    value method had been used to account for stock-based employee
    compensation in 2005 and 2004:

Research and development costs:   Expenditures
    related to new product development activities are expensed when
    incurred and are separately reported in the consolidated
    statements of earnings.

Income taxes:   Deferred income taxes are
    provided for the temporary differences between the financial
    reporting basis and the tax basis of the company s assets
    and liabilities. We provide for taxes that may be payable if
    undistributed earnings of overseas subsidiaries were to be
    remitted to the United States, except for those earnings that we
    consider to be permanently reinvested.

Cash equivalents:   Highly liquid investments
    purchased with an original maturity of three months or less are
    considered to be cash equivalents.

Accounts receivable:   Virtually all our sales
    are made on credit and result in accounts receivable, which are
    recorded at the amount invoiced. In the normal course of
    business, not all accounts receivable are collected and,
    therefore, we provide an allowance for losses of accounts
    receivable equal to the amount that we believe ultimately will
    not be collected. We consider customer-specific information
    related to delinquent accounts, past loss experience, and
    current economic conditions in establishing the amount of our
    allowance. Accounts receivable losses are deducted from the
    allowance and the related accounts receivable balances are
    written off when the

37

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

receivables are deemed uncollectible. Recoveries of accounts
    receivable previously written off are recognized when received.

Inventories:   Inventories are valued at the
    lower of cost or market, with cost being determined on a
     first-in, 
    first-out basis.

Property, plant, and equipment:   Property,
    plant, and equipment are recorded at cost and are depreciated
    over the estimated useful lives of the assets, ranging from 5 to
    45 years for buildings and improvements and 3 to
    15 years for machinery and equipment. Assets placed in
    service after September 30, 1998, are depreciated using the
    straight-line method and assets placed in service as of and
    prior to September 30, 1998, are depreciated principally
    using accelerated methods. Assets are tested for recoverability
    whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may
    not be recoverable.

Goodwill:   Goodwill represents the excess of
    the cost of an acquired entity over the net amount assigned to
    assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is tested for
    impairment on an annual basis (as of April 1) and more
    often if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more
    likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below
    its carrying amount.

The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. In the first
    step, we compare the fair value of a reporting unit with its
    carrying amount, including goodwill. The goodwill is considered
    potentially impaired if the carrying amount of the reporting
    unit exceeds its fair value. The second step is performed for
    all goodwill that is potentially impaired. In this step, we
    compare the implied fair value of the goodwill of the reporting
    unit to the carrying amount of that goodwill. The implied fair
    value of the goodwill is determined in the same manner as the
    amount of goodwill recognized when a business combination is
    determined. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the
    implied fair value of goodwill, we would recognize an impairment
    loss to reduce the carrying amount to its implied fair value.

A reporting unit is the level at which goodwill is tested for
    impairment. A reporting unit is an operating segment or a
    component one level below an operating segment if the component
    constitutes a business for which discrete financial information
    is available and segment management regularly reviews the
    operating results of that component. Two or more components
    would be aggregated and considered a single reporting unit if
    the components have similar economic conditions. In our most
    recent impairment test, we determined our operating segments
    were our reporting units for purposes of our impairment tests.

Other intangibles:   Other intangibles are
    recognized apart from goodwill whenever an acquired intangible
    asset arises from contractual or other legal rights, or whenever
    it is capable of being separated or divided from the acquired
    entity and sold, transferred, licensed, rented, or exchanged,
    either individually or in combination with a related contract,
    asset, or liability. An intangible other than goodwill is
    amortized over its estimated useful life unless that life is
    determined to be indefinite. Currently, all of our intangibles
    have an estimated useful life and are being amortized.

Impairment losses are recognized if the carrying amount of an
    intangible exceeds its fair value.

Deferred compensation:   Deferred compensation
    obligations will be settled either by delivery of a fixed number
    of shares of the company s common stock (in accordance with
    certain eligible members  irrevocable elections) or in
    cash. We have contributed shares of common stock of the company
    into a trust established for the future settlement of deferred
    compensation obligations that are payable in shares of the
    company s common stock. Common stock held by the trust is
    reflected in the consolidated balance sheet as treasury stock
    held for deferred compensation, and the related deferred
    compensation obligation is reflected as a separate component of
    equity in amounts equal to the fair value of the common stock at
    the dates of contribution. These accounts are not adjusted for
    subsequent changes in fair value of the common stock. Deferred
    compensation obligations that will be settled in cash are
    accounted for on an accrual basis in accordance with the terms
    of the underlying contract and are reflected in the consolidated
    balance sheet as an accrued expense.

38

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

Derivatives:   We recognize derivatives, which
    are used to hedge risks associated with interest rates, as
    assets or liabilities at fair value. These derivatives are
    designated as hedges of our exposure to changes in the fair
    value of long-term debt or as hedges of our exposure to variable
    cash flows of future interest payments. The gain or loss in the
    value of a derivative designated as a fair value hedge is
    recognized in earnings in the period of change together with an
    offsetting loss or gain on long-term debt. The effective portion
    of a gain or loss in the value of a derivative designated as a
    cash flow hedge is initially reported as a component of other
    comprehensive earnings and is subsequently reclassified into
    earnings when the future interest payments affect earnings. The
    ineffective portion of the gain or loss in the value of a
    derivative designated as a cash flow hedge is reported in
    earnings immediately.

New accounting standards:   In June 2006, the
    Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB interpretation
    No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes.  The Interpretation clarifies the accounting for
    uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s
    financial statements in accordance with Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 109,  Accounting for Income
    Taxes,  and will be effective for our year ending
    September 30, 2008, although earlier application is
    permitted. The Interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold
    and measurement attribute for the financial statement
    recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected
    to be taken in a tax return. The Interpretation also provides
    guidance on the derecognition, classification, interest and
    penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and
    transition. We are currently evaluating the effects this
    Interpretation will have on our financial statements.

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,
     Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans.  Among its provisions, this
    Statement will require us to recognize the overfunded or
    underfunded status of our retirement pension benefits and
    retirement healthcare benefits as an asset or liability in our
    consolidated balance sheet. When initially adopted, any required
    adjustments will be recognized as an adjustment of the ending
    balance of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of income
    tax. Thereafter, changes in funded status will be accounted
    through comprehensive earnings, net of income taxes. These
    provisions become effective for us on September 30, 2007.
    If we had adopted the provisions at September 30, 2006, we
    would have increased total assets by approximately $3,200,
    increased total liabilities by $8,400, and decreased total
    equity by $5,200. The effect of adoption would not have affected
    our compliance with covenants under existing debt agreements.

Note 2.   

Business
    acquisitions:  

In June 2004, we acquired assets and assumed certain liabilities
    of Adrenaline Research, Inc., specialists in advanced combustion
    electronics. Our cost for this acquisition totaled $2,896, and
    we recognized $3,139 as other intangibles in the Industrial
    Controls segment. We are using an amortization period of
    seventeen years for these intangibles. If we had completed this
    acquisition on October 1, 2002, net sales and net earnings
    for 2004 and 2003 would not have been materially different from
    amounts reported in the consolidated statements of earnings.

Note 3.   

Income
    taxes:  

Income taxes consisted of the following:

39

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

Earnings before income taxes by geographical area consisted of
    the following:

Deferred income taxes presented in the consolidated balance
    sheets are related to the following:

The foreign net operating loss carryforwards includes $888 that
    expires in 2012 and $15,357 that may be carried forward
    indefinitely.

At September 30, 2006, we have not provided for taxes on
    undistributed foreign earnings of $18,270 that we consider
    permanently reinvested. These earnings could become subject to
    income taxes if they are remitted as dividends, are loaned to
    the company, or if we sell our stock in the subsidiaries.
    However, we believe that foreign tax credits would largely
    offset any income tax that might otherwise be due.

The changes in the valuation allowance were as follows:

Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if,
    based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely
    than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets
    will not be realized. Both positive and negative evidence are
    considered in forming our judgment as to whether a valuation
    allowance is appropriate, and more weight is given to evidence
    that can be objectively verified. Valuation allowances are
    reassessed whenever there are changes in circumstances that may
    cause a change in judgment. In 2006, additional objective
    evidence became available regarding earnings in tax
    jurisdictions that had unexpired net operating loss
    carryforwards that affected our judgment about the valuation
    allowance that existed at the beginning of the year.

40

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

Foreign net operating loss carryforward amounts in the preceding
    table included the translation effects of changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates.

The reasons for the differences between our effective income tax
    rate and the United States statutory federal income tax rate
    were as follows:

The changes in estimate of taxes for previous periods are
    primarily related to the favorable resolution of certain tax
    matters for 2006, and to increases in the amount of certain
    credits claimed and changes in the amount of certain deductions
    taken as compared to prior estimates for 2005.

Note 4.   

Earnings
    per share:  

The weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding included
    the weighted-average shares held for deferred compensation
    obligations of 413,985 for 2006, 391,395 for 2005, and 374,895
    for 2004.

The following outstanding stock options were not included in the
    computation of diluted earnings per share because their
    inclusion would have been anti-dilutive:

41

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

Note 5.   

Inventories:  

Note 6.   

Property,
    plant, and equipment:  

Depreciation expense totaled $22,064 in 2006, $24,451 in 2005,
    and $25,856 in 2004.

Note 7.   

Goodwill:  

42

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

Note 8.   

Other
    intangibles   net:  

Amortization expense associated with current intangibles is
    expected to be approximately $6,700 for 2007, $5,900 for 2008,
    $5,500 for 2009, $5,400 for 2010, and $5,300 for 2011.

Note 9.   

Short-term
    borrowings:  

Short-term borrowings reflect borrowings under certain bank
    lines of credit. The total amount available under these lines of
    credit, including outstanding borrowings, totaled $17,691 at
    September 30, 2006, and $25,695 at

43

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

September 30, 2005. Interest on borrowings under the lines
    of credit is based on various short-term rates. Several of the
    lines assess commitment fees. The lines are generally reviewed
    annually for renewal and are subject to the usual terms and
    conditions applied by the banks. The weighted-average interest
    rate for outstanding borrowings was 0.5% at September 30,
    2006, 2.3% at September 30, 2005, and 2.8% at
    September 30, 2004. For all three years, and in particular
    2006, the rates were lower than is typical in the United States
    because of borrowings in foreign countries.

The senior notes, which are held by multiple institutions, and
    the term note, which is held by a bank in Germany, are
    uncollateralized. Required future principal payments of the
    senior notes and the term note at September 30, 2006, are
    $14,619 in 2007, $14,619 in 2008, $10,714 in 2009, $10,714 in
    2010, $10,714 in 2011, and $10,715 thereafter.

We also have a $100,000 revolving line of credit facility that
    involves uncollateralized financing arrangements with a
    syndicate of U.S. banks. There is an option to increase the
    amount of the line to $175,000. This line of credit expires
    March 11, 2010. Interest rates on borrowings under the line
    vary with LIBOR, the money market rate, or the prime rate. At
    September 30, 2006, there are no borrowings against the
    line.

Previously, we discontinued certain interest rate swaps that
    were designated as fair value hedges of long-term debt. These
    actions resulted in gains that are recognized as a reduction of
    interest expense over the term of the associated hedged debt
    using the effective interest method. The unrecognized portion of
    the gain was presented as an adjustment to long-term debt in the
    preceding table.

Provisions of the debt agreements include covenants customary to
    such agreements that require us to maintain specified minimum or
    maximum financial measures and place limitations on various
    investing and financing activities. The agreements also permit
    the lenders to accelerate repayment requirements in the event of
    a material adverse event. Our most restrictive covenants require
    us to maintain a minimum consolidated net worth, a maximum
    consolidated debt to consolidated operating cash flow, and a
    maximum consolidated debt to EBITDA, as defined in the
    agreements.

Note 11.   

Accrued
    liabilities:  

44

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

Salaries and other member benefits included accrued termination
    benefits totaling $4,935 at September 30, 2005, which were
    related to the Industrial Controls segment. Changes in accrued
    termination benefits were as follows:

The termination benefits that were expensed and accrued during
    2005 and 2006 were primarily related to the consolidation of two
    European manufacturing operations with existing operations. This
    action was taken to streamline the organization by eliminating
    redundant manufacturing operations and was completed in 2006.
    The total expense for this action was $15,920, which included
    $12,010 for termination benefits, $2,140 for contractual pension
    termination benefits, and other costs primarily associated with
    moving equipment and inventory to other locations totaling
    $1,770.

Provisions of our sales agreements include product warranties
    customary to such agreements. We establish accruals for
    specifically identified warranty issues that are probable to
    result in future costs. We also accrue for warranty costs on a
    non-specific basis whenever past experience indicates a normal
    and predictable pattern exists. Changes in accrued product
    warranties were as follows:

Note 12.   

Other
    liabilities:  

Note 13.   

Retirement
    benefits:  

We provide various benefits to eligible members of our company,
    including contributions to various defined contribution plans,
    pension benefits associated with defined benefit plans, and
    retirement healthcare benefits. The amount of expense associated
    with defined contribution plans totaled $13,684 in 2006, $12,705
    in 2005, and

45

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

$11,785 in 2004. The amount of contributions associated with
    multiemployer plans totaled $635 in 2006, $867 in 2005, and $903
    in 2004. Information regarding our retirement pension benefits
    and retirement healthcare benefits, using a September 30
    measurement date, is provided in the tables and paragraphs that
    follow.

46

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

An amendment was made to one of our retirement pension benefit
    plans in 2006 that modified the amount of pension benefits
    payable to participants retiring after January 1, 2007.
    Amendments were also made to one of our retirement healthcare
    benefit plans in 2005 that reduced the number of individuals who
    will qualify for retirement healthcare benefits in future
    periods. The effects of the amendments were presented in the
    preceding tables under the captions  plan amendments 
    and  curtailment gain. 

Contractual pension termination benefits were associated with
    workforce reductions of members covered by one of our retirement
    pension benefit plans. The workforce reductions were related to
    the consolidation of manufacturing operations that were
    initially accrued for in 2004. The expense was recognized in the
    Industrial Controls segment.

As part of our retirement healthcare benefits, we provide a
    prescription drug benefit that is at least actuarially
    equivalent to Medicare Part D. As a result, we are entitled
    to a federal subsidy that was introduced by the Medicare
    Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003.
    The effect of the subsidy reduced our accumulated postretirement
    benefit obligation by $7,934 at January 1, 2004, which was
    the date the Act became effective. It also reduced our net
    periodic postretirement benefit cost for 2004 by $843, which
    consisted of $189 for service cost, $356 for interest cost, and
    $298 for recognized actuarial gains. In 2006, we paid
    prescription drug benefits of $2,336. We did not receive a
    federal subsidy in 2006, but we currently expect to receive $517
    in 2007.

47

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

Estimated benefit payments to be made over the next ten years,
    with retirement healthcare benefit payments presented net of
    estimated participant contributions are as follows:

We expect contributions by the company for retirement pension
    benefits will be $0 in the United States and $2,997 in other
    countries in 2007. We also expect contributions by the company
    for retirement healthcare benefits will be $3,397 in 2007, less
    amounts received as federal subsidies.

For retirement healthcare benefits, we assumed net healthcare
    cost trend rates of 10.00% in 2007, decreasing gradually to
    5.00% in 2012, and remaining at 5.00% thereafter. A 1.00%
    increase in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have
    increased the total of the service and interest cost components
    by $364 and increased the benefit obligation at the end of the
    year by $5,554 in 2006. Likewise, a 1.00% decrease in the
    assumed rates would have decreased the total of service and
    interest cost components by $311 and decreased the benefit
    obligation by $4,763 in 2006.

Our investment policies and strategies for plan assets focus on
    maintaining diversified investment portfolios that provide for
    growth while minimizing risk to principal. The target allocation
    ranges for our plan assets in the United States are 40-60% for
    United States equity securities, 10-15% for foreign equity
    securities, and 35-45% for debt securities. The target
    allocation ranges for our plan assets in the United Kingdom,
    which represented about 75% of total foreign plan assets at
    September 30, 2006, are 47-57% for debt securities, 23-27%
    for United Kingdom equity securities, and 23-27% for non-United
    Kingdom equity securities. The remaining foreign plan assets are
    in Japan, and our investment manager uses asset allocations that
    are customary in that country. The expected long-term rates of
    return on plan assets were based on our current asset
    allocations and the historical long-term performance for each
    asset class, as adjusted for existing market conditions.

The actual percentage of the fair value of total plan assets
    were as follows:

We have granted stock options to key management members and
    directors of the company. These options are generally granted
    with an exercise price equal to the market price of our stock at
    the date of grant, a four year graded

48

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

vesting schedule, and a term of ten years. Vesting would be
    accelerated in the event of retirement, disability, or death of
    a participant, or change in control of the company.

Provisions governing our stock option grants are included in the
    2006 Omnibus Incentive Plan and the 2002 Stock Option Plan. The
    2006 Plan was approved by shareholders and became effective on
    January 25, 2006. No grants were issued in January 2006,
    and no further grants will be made under the 2002 Plan. The 2006
    Plan made 3,705,000 shares available for grants made on or
    after January 25, 2006, to members and directors of the
    company, subject to annual award limits as specified in the Plan.

The fair value of options granted during 2006, 2005, and 2004
    was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
    option-pricing model with the following assumptions by grant
    year:

Historical company information was the primary basis for
    selection of the expected term, expected volatility, and
    expected dividend yield assumptions. The risk-free interest rate
    was selected based on yields from U.S. Treasury zero-coupon
    issues with a remaining term equal to the expected term of the
    options being valued.

Changes in outstanding stock options were as follows:

49

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

At September 30, 2006, there was $4,706 of unrecognized
    compensation cost related to nonvested awards, which we expect
    to recognize over a weighted-average period of 1.4 years.
    Information about stock options that are vested, or are expected
    to vest, and that are exercisable at September 30, 2006,
    follows:

The weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted
    was $10.45 for 2006, $9.40 for 2005, and $5.23 for 2004. Other
    information follows:

Note 15.   

Accumulated
    other comprehensive earnings:  

Accumulated other comprehensive earnings, which totaled $12,619
    at September 30, 2006, and $10,904 at September 30,
    2005, consisted of the following items:

50

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

We have entered into operating leases for certain facilities and
    equipment with terms in excess of one year. Future minimum
    rental payments required under these leases are approximately
    $3,700 in 2007, $2,500 in 2008, $2,000 in 2009, $1,700 in 2010,
    $900 in 2011, and $2,000 thereafter. Rent expense for all
    operating leases totaled $4,610 in 2006, $4,557 in 2005, and
    $4,239 in 2004.

We are currently involved in pending or threatened litigation or
    other legal proceedings regarding employment, product liability,
    and contractual matters arising from the normal course of
    business. We accrued for individual matters that we believe are
    likely to result in a loss when ultimately resolved using
    estimates of the most likely amount of loss, including accruals
    totaling $8,500 that were made in 2006. There are also
    individual matters that we believe the likelihood of a loss when
    ultimately resolved is less than likely but more than remote,
    which were not accrued. While it is possible that there could be
    additional losses that have not been accrued, we currently
    believe the possible additional loss in the event of an
    unfavorable resolution of each matter is less than $10,000 in
    the aggregate.

Among the legal proceedings referred to in the preceding
    paragraph, we were a defendant in a class action lawsuit filed
    in the U.S. District Court for Northern District of
    Illinois and received findings of the U.S. Equal Employment
    Opportunity Commission that alleged discrimination on the basis
    of race, national origin, and gender in our Winnebago County,
    Illinois, facilities. On October 5, 2006, a
    U.S. District Court Judge gave preliminary approval to a
    proposed $5,000 settlement of the class action and EEOC matters.
    Accruals for the amount of the settlement and related legal
    expenses are included in our consolidated balance sheet at
    September 30, 2006.

We file income tax returns in various jurisdictions worldwide,
    which are subject to audit. We have accrued for our estimate of
    the most likely amount of expense that we believe may result
    from income tax audit adjustments.

We do not recognize contingencies that might result in a gain
    until such contingencies are resolved and the related amounts
    are realized.

In the event of a change in control of the company, we may be
    required to pay termination benefits to certain executive
    officers.

Note 18.   

Financial
    instruments:  

The estimated fair values of our financial instruments were as
    follows:

The fair values of cash and cash equivalents and short-term
    borrowings at variable interest rates were assumed to be equal
    to their carrying amounts. Cash and cash equivalents have
    short-term maturities and short-term borrowings have short-term
    maturities and market interest rates. The fair value of
    long-term debt at fixed interest rates was estimated based on a
    model that discounted future principal and interest payments at
    interest rates available to the company at the end of the year
    for similar debt of the same maturity. The weighted-average
    interest rates used to estimate the fair value of long-term debt
    at fixed interest rates were 5.38% at September 30, 2006,
    and 4.90% at September 30, 2005.

We hold cash and cash equivalents at financial institutions in
    excess of amounts covered by federal depository insurance.

51

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

Note 19.   

Segment
    information:  

Our operations are organized based on the market application of
    our products and related services and consist of two operating
    segments   Industrial Controls and Aircraft Engine
    Systems. Industrial Controls is focused on systems and
    components that provide energy control and optimization
    solutions for industrial markets, which includes power
    generation, transportation, and process industries. Aircraft
    Engine Systems is focused on systems and components that provide
    energy control and optimization solutions for the aerospace
    market.

The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those
    described in Note 1. Intersegment sales and transfers are
    made at established intersegment selling prices generally
    intended to approximate selling prices to unrelated parties. Our
    determination of segment earnings does not reflect allocations
    of certain corporate expenses, which we designate as nonsegment
    expenses, and is before curtailment gain, interest expense,
    interest income, and income taxes.

Segment assets consist of accounts receivable, inventories,
    property, plant, and equipment   net, goodwill, and
    other intangibles   net. Summarized financial
    information for our segments follows:

The differences between the total of segment amounts and the
    consolidated financial statements were as follows:

52

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

Differences between total depreciation and amortization and
    capital expenditures of our segments and the corresponding
    consolidated amounts reported in the consolidated statements of
    cash flows are due to unallocated corporate amounts.

Two customers individually accounted for more than 10% of
    consolidated net sales in each of the years 2004 through 2006.
    Sales to the first customer were made by both of our segments
    and totaled approximately $186,000 in 2006, $189,000 in 2005,
    and $156,000 in 2004. Sales to the second customer were made by
    Industrial Controls and totaled approximately $98,000 in 2006,
    $105,000 in 2005, and $83,000 in 2004.

External net sales by geographical area, as determined by the
    location of the customer invoiced, were as follows:

Property, plant, and equipment   net by geographical
    area, as determined by the physical location of the assets, were
    as follows:

Note 20.   

Subsequent
    event:  

On October 31, 2006, we acquired 100 percent of the
    stock of SEG Schaltanlagen-Elektronik-Ger te
    GmbH & Co. KG (SEG) and a related receivable from SEG
    that was held by one of the sellers. Headquartered in Kempen,
    Germany, SEG is focused on the design and manufacture of a wide
    range of protection and comprehensive control systems for power
    generation and distribution applications, power inverters for
    wind turbines, and complete electrical systems for gas and
    diesel engine based power stations. The cost of this acquisition
    has not yet been finalized, but is currently expected to be
    approximately $45 million, including the amount of
    outstanding borrowings assumed. The actual cost of the
    acquisition may be higher or lower than our current estimate
    based on the outcome of a purchase price adjustment procedure
    customary to purchase agreements and the final determination of
    the direct acquisition costs. SEG had sales of approximately
    $60 million in the year ended December 31, 2005.

53

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

Note 21.    

Unaudited
    quarterly financial information:  

Notes: 

1.  

Gross profit represents net sales less cost of goods sold.  

2.  

Per share amounts have been updated from amounts reported
    prior to February 1, 2006, to reflect the effects of a
     three-for-one 
    stock split.  

3.  

Net earnings included a deferred tax asset valuation
    allowance change that increased net earnings by $13,710 in the
    third quarter of 2006.  

4.  

Earnings before income taxes included a curtailment gain
    associated with an amendment to a retiree healthcare benefit
    plan of $7,825 in the third fiscal quarter of 2005.  

5.  

Accounting for stock-based compensation changed to the fair
    value method from the intrinsic value method beginning in the
    first quarter of 2006. The following presents a reconciliation
    of reported net earnings and per share information to pro forma
    net earnings and per share information that would have been
    reported if the fair value method had been used to account for
    stock-based employee compensation last year:  

54

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued) 

(In
    thousands of dollars except per share amounts)  

55

Table of Contents   

REPORT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders

of Woodward Governor Company:

We have completed integrated audits of Woodward Governor
    Company s 2006 and 2005 consolidated financial statements
    and of its internal control over financial reporting as of
    September 30, 2006, and an audit of its 2004 consolidated
    financial statements in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our
    opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.

Consolidated
    financial statements and financial statement
    schedule   

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
    the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in
    all material respects, the financial position of Woodward
    Governor Company and its subsidiaries at September 30, 2006
    and September 30, 2005, and the results of their operations
    and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
    ended September 30, 2006 in conformity with accounting
    principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
    In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule
    listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents
    fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
    therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
    financial statements. These financial statements and financial
    statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s
    management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
    financial statements and financial statement schedule based on
    our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
    accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
    Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
    plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
    whether the financial statements are free of material
    misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
    presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
    basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements, effective October 1, 2005, the Company changed
    its method of accounting for share-based payments.

Internal
    control over financial reporting   

Also, in our opinion, management s assessment, included in
    Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that the
    Company maintained effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of September 30, 2006 based on criteria
    established in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly
    stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria.
    Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
    material respects, effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria
    established in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by the COSO. The Company s management
    is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility
    is to express opinions on management s assessment and on
    the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit
    of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with
    the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
    perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
    effective internal control over financial reporting was
    maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal
    control over financial reporting includes obtaining an
    understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
    evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating
    the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and
    performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the
    circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
    basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail,

56

Table of Contents   

accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions
    of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
    assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
    preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
    accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
    expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
    with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
    and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention
    or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
    disposition of the company s assets that could have a
    material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Chicago, Illinois

November 29, 2006

57

Table of Contents   

Item 9.       Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure    

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP was engaged as the principal
    registered public accounting firm to perform an integrated audit
    of our consolidated financial statements and internal control
    over financial reporting during our two most recent fiscal
    years, and no other accountant was engaged during this period on
    whom they expressed reliance in their report.

Item 9A.       Controls
    and Procedures    

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures   

We have established disclosure controls and procedures, as
    defined in
     Rule 13a-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange
    Act ), which are designed to ensure that information
    required to be disclosed in reports filed or submitted under the
    Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported,
    within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange
    Commission s rules and forms. These disclosure controls and
    procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures
    designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in
    the reports that we file or submit under the Act is accumulated
    and communicated to management, including our principal
    executive officer (Thomas A. Gendron, president and chief
    executive officer) and principal financial officer (Robert F.
    Weber, Jr., chief financial officer and treasurer), as
    appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
    disclosures.

Thomas A. Gendron, our president and chief executive officer,
    and Robert F. Weber, Jr., our chief financial officer and
    treasurer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure
    controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by
    this
     Form 10-K. 
    Based on their evaluation, they concluded that our disclosure
    controls and procedures were effective in achieving the
    objectives for which they were designed as described in the
    preceding paragraph.

Management s
    Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting   

We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
    internal control over financial reporting for the company. We
    have evaluated the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting using the criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission (COSO) and, based on that evaluation, have concluded
    that the company s internal control over financial
    reporting was effective as of September 30, 2006, the end
    of the company s most recent fiscal year.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, conducted an integrated audit of the
    company s 2006 consolidated financial statements and of the
    company s internal control over financial reporting as of
    September 30, 2006, as stated in their report included in
     Item 8   Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data. 

Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed
    by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive and
    principal financial officers, or persons performing similar
    functions, and effected by our board of directors, management,
    and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
    the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation
    of our financial statements for external purposes in accordance
    with generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control
    over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
    that:

Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
    detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
    dispositions of the assets of the company;

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
    necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
    that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
    only in accordance with authorization of management and
    directors of the company; and

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
    detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

58

Table of Contents   

Changes
    in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

There has been no change in our internal control over financial
    reporting during the fourth fiscal quarter covered by this
     Form 10-K 
    that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
    materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.       Other
    Information    

There is no information required to be disclosed in a report on
     Form 8-K 
    during the fourth quarter of 2006 that was not reported on
     Form 8-K. 

PART III  

Item 10.       Directors
    and Executive Officers of the Registrant    

Executive
    Officers:   

Thomas A. Gendron, age 45   president and chief
    executive officer since July 2005; president and chief operating
    officer September 2002 through June 2005; vice president and
    general manager of Industrial Controls June 2001 through
    September 2002; vice president of Industrial Controls April 2000
    through May 2001; director of global marketing and Industrial
    Controls  business development February 1999 through March
    2000.

Robert F. Weber, Jr., age 52   chief
    financial officer and treasurer since August 2005. Prior to
    August 2005, Mr. Weber was employed at Motorola, Inc. for
    17 years, where he held various positions, including
    corporate vice president and general manager   EMEA
    Auto, corporate vice president and director  
    strategy, corporate vice president and finance
    director   IESS, and other financial roles from
    business controller up through a sector finance director.
    Mr. Weber also held the position in the corporate finance
    department at Motorola as the senior manager responsible for all
    financial reporting at the corporate level   annual
    report, SEC filings, internal reporting, and special filings. In
    addition, Mr. Weber served as the senior manager
    responsible for corporate internal audit at Motorola with global
    audit responsibility.

Carol J. Manning, age 57   secretary since June
    1991.

All executive officers were elected to their current positions
    to serve until the January 24, 2007, Board of Directors
    meeting, or until their successors have been elected. The Board
    of Directors elected the executive officers to their current
    positions on January 25, 2006.

We have adopted a code of ethics for senior financial officers
    and other finance members that applies to Thomas A. Gendron, our
    principal executive officer, and Robert F. Weber, Jr., our
    principal financial and accounting officer. This code of ethics,
    which is listed in Exhibit 14 in
     Item 15   Exhibits and Financial Statement
    Schedules,  is incorporated here by reference.

Other information regarding our directors and executive officers
    is under the captions  Board of Directors, 
     Board Meetings and Committees   Audit
    Committee  (including information with respect to audit
    committee financial experts),  Share Ownership of
    Management,  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial
    Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our proxy statement for
    the 2006 annual meeting of shareholders to be held
    January 24, 2007, incorporated here by reference.

Item 11.       Executive
    Compensation    

Information regarding executive compensation is under the
    captions  Board Meetings and Committees  
    Director Compensation,   Executive Compensation, 
     Stock Options,  and  Long-Term Management
    Incentive Compensation Plan Awards  in our proxy statement
    for the 2006 annual meeting of shareholders to be held
    January 24, 2007, incorporated here by reference.

59

Table of Contents   

Item 12.       

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters    

Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial
    owners and management and related stockholder matters is under
    the tables captioned  Share Ownership of Management, 
     Persons Owning More than Five Percent of Woodward
    Stock,  and  Stock Options   Equity
    Compensation Plan Information (as of September 30,
    2006),  in our proxy statement for the 2006 annual meeting
    of shareholders to be held January 24, 2007, incorporated
    here by reference.

Item 13.      
     Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions    

There are no relationships, transactions, or other information
    to be reported under this item.

Item 14.       Principal
    Accounting Fees and Services    

Information regarding principal accounting fees and services is
    under the captions  Audit Committee Report to
    Shareholders   Audit Committee s Policy on
    Pre-Approval of Services Provided by Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm and Fees Paid by PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP  in our proxy statement for the 2006 annual meeting of
    shareholders to be held January 24, 2007, incorporated
    herein by reference.

PART IV  

Item 15.       Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules    

(a)(1)    Consolidated Financial Statements:  

(a)(2)    Consolidated Financial Statement
    Schedules  

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

63

Financial statements and schedules other than those listed above
    are omitted for the reason that they are not applicable, are not
    required, or the information is included in the financial
    statements or the footnotes.

(a)(3)    Exhibits Filed as Part of This
    Report  

60

Table of Contents   

61

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

Woodward Governor
    Company  

/s/   Thomas
    A. Gendron 

Thomas A. Gendron

President, Chief Executive Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

Date: November 30, 2006

/s/   Robert
    F. Weber, Jr. 

Robert F. Weber, Jr.

Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer 

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 

Date: November 30, 2006

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

62

Table of Contents   

WOODWARD
    GOVERNOR COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
     
    SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING
    ACCOUNTS 
    For the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004 
    (in thousands of dollars)  

Notes:  

(a)  

Includes recoveries of accounts previously written off. 

(b)  

Represents accounts written off and foreign currency translation
    adjustments. Currency translation adjustments resulted in
    decreases in the reserve of $22 in 2005, and increases in the
    reserve of $43 in 2006 and $45 in 2004. 

63

<EX-3.(II)>
 2
 c10357exv3wxiiy.htm
 BYLAWS

exv3wxiiy 

Exhibit 3(ii) 
Woodward Governor Company 
Bylaws

BYLAWS 

OF 

WOODWARD GOVERNOR COMPANY 

as amended through November 28, 2006 

BYLAWS OF 

WOODWARD
GOVERNOR COMPANY 

Page 1 of 12 

ARTICLE I 
Offices 

SECTION 1.1. REGISTERED OFFICE 

The registered office shall be established and maintained as prescribed in the Certificate
of Incorporation of the Corporation.

SECTION 1.2. OTHER OFFICES 

The corporation may have other offices, either within or outside of the State of Delaware,
at such place or places as the Board of Directors may from time to time appoint or the business of
the corporation may require.

ARTICLE II 
Meetings of Stockholders 

SECTION 2.1. PLACE OF MEETINGS 

All meetings of the stockholders for the election of directors shall be held at such place
as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the
meeting. Meetings of stockholders for any other purpose may be held at such time and place as shall
be stated in the notice of the meeting or in a duly executed waiver of notice thereof.

SECTION 2.2. ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS 

The annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors and for such other business
as may be stated in the notice of the meeting shall be held, in each year, commencing in 1999, by
the third Wednesday following January 2 at 10:00 A.M., local time, or such other date and time as
shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the
meeting.

SECTION 2.3. VOTING 

Each stockholder entitled to vote in accordance with the terms of the Certificate of
Incorporation and in accordance with the provisions of these bylaws shall, except as otherwise
provided by the Certificate of Incorporation, be entitled to one vote, in person or by proxy, for
each share of stock entitled to vote held by such stockholder, but no proxy shall be voted after
three years from its date unless such proxy provides for a longer period.

SECTION 2.4. LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS 

The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the corporation shall prepare and make, at
least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled
to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder
and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the
examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business
hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city
where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or,
if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced
and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected
by any stockholder who is present.

SECTION 2.5. QUORUM 

The holders of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat,
present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the
stockholders for the transaction of business except as otherwise provided by statute or by the
Certificate of Incorporation. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any
meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or
represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice
other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. At such
adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented any business may be transacted
which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified. If the adjournment is for
more than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned
meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to
vote at the meeting.

BYLAWS OF 

WOODWARD
GOVERNOR COMPANY 

Page 2 of 12 

SECTION 2.6. SPECIAL MEETINGS 

Special meetings of the stockholders for any proper purpose or purposes may be called by the
Board of Directors or by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and shall be called upon a request
in writing therefore stating the purpose or purposes thereof signed by the holders of two-thirds of
the outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation.

SECTION 2.7. NOTICE OF MEETINGS 

Except as otherwise provided by law, written notice, stating the place, date and time of the
meeting, and the general nature of the business to be considered, shall be given to each
stockholder entitled to vote thereat at his address as it appears on the records of the corporation
either personally or by mail, not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the
meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same shall be
deposited in the United States mail. No business other than that stated in the notice shall be
transacted at any meeting without the unanimous consent of all the stockholders entitled to vote
thereat.

SECTION 2.8. NOMINATIONS FOR DIRECTOR 

Nominations for election to the Board of Directors may be made by the Board of Directors or
by any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of directors. Nominations other than those
made by the Board of Directors shall be made by notice in writing, delivered or mailed by
registered or certified United States mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, to the
Secretary of the Corporation, not less than 20 days nor more than 50 days prior to any meeting of
stockholders called for the election of directors; provided, however, if less than 21 days  notice
of the meeting is given to stockholders, such written notice shall be delivered or mailed, as
prescribed, not later than the close of business on the seventh day following the day on which the
notice of meeting was mailed to the stockholders. Each such written notice shall contain the
following information: (a) The name and residence address of the stockholder making the nomination;
(b) Such information regarding each nominee as would have been required to be included in a proxy
statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had the
nominee been nominated by the Board of Directors; and (c) The signed consent of each nominee to
serve as a member of the Board of Directors if elected, and the signed agreement of each nominee
that if elected he or she will be guided by the philosophy and concepts of human and industrial
association of the Corporation as expressed in its Constitution in connection with the nominee s
service as a member of the Board of Directors.

Unless otherwise determined by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or by a majority of the
directors then in office, any nomination which is not made in accordance with the foregoing
procedure shall be defective, and any votes which may be cast for the defective nominee shall be
disregarded.

ARTICLE III 
Directors 

SECTION 3.1. GENERAL POWERS 

The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of
its Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall exercise all of the powers of the corporation
except such as are by law, or by the Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation or by these
bylaws conferred upon or reserved to the stockholders.

SECTION 3.2. NUMBER AND TERM 

The Board of Directors shall be divided into three classes, Class I, Class II and Class III,
which shall be as nearly equal in number as possible. The number of directors which shall
constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be not less than six, the exact number of directors
and the exact number of directors in each class to be determined from time to time by the Board of
Directors. Except as provided in Section 3.4 hereof, each director shall serve for a term ending on
the date of the third annual meeting of stockholders following the annual meeting at which such
director was elected; provided, however, that each initial director in Class I shall hold office
until the annual meeting of stockholders next ensuing, each initial director in Class II shall hold
office until the annual meeting of stockholders one year thereafter, and each initial director in
Class III shall hold office until the annual meeting of stockholders two years thereafter. If the
number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the three
classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible. In no
case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director.

BYLAWS OF 

WOODWARD
GOVERNOR COMPANY 

Page 3 of 12 

SECTION 3.3. VACANCIES 

Vacancies in the Board of Directors and newly created directorships resulting from any
increase in the authorized number of directors shall be filled by a majority of the directors then
in office, although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Except as provided in
Section 3.4 hereof, any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remaining term
of the class in which the vacancy shall have occurred or shall have been created.

SECTION 3.4. QUALIFICATIONS 

Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the term of any director shall end on
September 30th next following said director s seventieth birthday. No person may serve as a
director unless such person agrees in writing that in connection with such service he or she will
be guided by the philosophy and concepts of human and industrial association of the corporation as
expressed in its Constitution.

SECTION 3.5. DIRECTOR EMERITUS 

Any director who requests that he be appointed a director emeritus and any director who is
not re-elected by the stockholders may, with the approval of the Board of Directors, be a director
emeritus until the next annual meeting of the Board of Directors. A director emeritus may attend
directors  meetings and counsel the directors but will not be a member of the Board of Directors
and will not have the voting rights of a director.

SECTION 3.6. INCREASE OR DECREASE OF NUMBER 

The number of directors may be increased or decreased from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.

SECTION 3.7. REMOVAL 

Any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed from office at any time, but
only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding
shares of Common Stock of the Corporation.

SECTION 3.8. REGULAR MEETINGS 

The first regular meeting of each newly elected Board of Directors shall be held immediately
after, and at the same place as, the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Thereafter regular meetings of
the Board of Directors shall be held at such times as the Board of Directors may from time to time
establish. Regular meetings shall be held at such place as may be fixed from time to time by the
Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting. Regular meetings of the Board of
Directors will be held without other notice than this bylaw. Any such regular meeting other than
the first regular meeting may be cancelled by the person or persons authorized to call special
meetings of the Board of Directors. Any such cancellation shall be accomplished by giving notice in
accordance with Section 3.11 of these bylaws.

SECTION 3.9. SPECIAL MEETINGS 

Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by or at the request of the
Chairman of the Board of Directors or any two directors. The person or persons authorized to call
special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place of any meeting called by such person
or persons.

SECTION 3.10. MINIMUM SCHEDULE OF MEETINGS 

During each calendar quarter, the Board of Directors shall conduct at least one meeting.
Each regular meeting and each special meeting shall be regarded as one meeting. For the purposes of
this Section 3.10, action without meeting pursuant to Section 3.15 of these bylaws shall not be
regarded as a meeting.

SECTION 3.11. NOTICE 

Notice of any special meeting or the cancellation of any regular meeting shall be given to
each director by letter delivered at least two days before the meeting, or by telegram delivered at
least one day before the meeting, or by such shorter telephone or other notice as the person or
persons calling or canceling the meeting may deem appropriate in the circumstances. If mailed, such
notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail in a sealed
envelope with postage thereon prepaid. If notice be given by telegram, such notice shall be deemed
to be delivered when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company. Neither the business to be
transacted at nor the purpose of any special meeting need be specified in the notice thereof.

BYLAWS OF 

WOODWARD
GOVERNOR COMPANY 

Page 4 of 12 

SECTION 3.12. PRESIDING OFFICER 

Meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the
Chairman of the Board of Directors, or if he is not present, by the Vice Chairman of the Board of
Directors, or if he is not present, by the President, or if he is not present, by a Vice President,
or if neither the Chairman of the Board of Directors, nor the Vice Chairman of the Board of
Directors, nor the President, nor a Vice President is present, then by a presiding officer to be
chosen by a majority of the directors present.

SECTION 3.13. QUORUM 

A majority of the directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and
the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be
the act of the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by statute. If
at any meeting of the board there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of these present
may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum is obtained, and no further notice thereof
need be given other than by announcement at the meeting which shall be so adjourned.

SECTION 3.14. COMPENSATION 

The Board of Directors shall have authority to fix the compensation of all directors and
directors emeritus. By resolution of the Board of Directors expenses of attendance, if any, may be
allowed for attendance by each director and director emeritus at each regular or special meeting of
the Board of Directors. Nothing herein shall be construed to preclude any director or director
emeritus from serving the corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.

SECTION 3.15. ACTION WITHOUT MEETING 

Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, may
be taken without a meeting if all members of the board consent thereto in writing, and the writing
or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the board.

SECTION 3.16. MEETINGS BY CONFERENCE TELEPHONE 

Members of the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting of such board by means of
conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons
participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in such meetings shall
constitute presence in person at such meeting.

ARTICLE IV 
Committees of the Board of Directors 

SECTION 4.1. COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

The Board of Directors shall designate an Executive Committee, an Audit Committee, a
Compensation Committee, a Nominating and Governance Committee, and a Management Operations
Committee, each of which shall have and may exercise the powers and authority of the Board of
Directors to the extent hereinafter provided. The Board of Directors may designate one or more
additional committees of the Board of Directors with such powers and authority and shall be
specified in the resolution of the Board of Directors. Each committee shall consist of such number
of directors as shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. The
Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be ex-officio a member of all committees of the Board of
Directors other than the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee, and he shall be chairman
of the Executive Committee. All actions of the Board of Directors designating committees, or
electing or removing members of such committees, shall be taken by a resolution passed by a
majority of the whole Board of Directors. Each committee shall keep a written record of all action
taken by it. All action taken by a committee shall be reported to the Board of Directors at its
meeting next succeeding such action and shall be subject to approval and revision by the Board of
Directors, provided that no legal rights of third parties, including the rights of any participant
under an award pursuant to an employee benefit plan, can be impaired by any such failure to approve
or shall be affected by any such revisions, and in no event shall the Board of Directors take any
action with respect to the Compensation Committee which would cause the Woodward Governor Company
2006 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the   2006 Omnibus Incentive Plan  ) to fail to comply with Rule 16b-3
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the   Exchange Act  ) or cause the members of the
Compensation Committee not to qualify as   non-employee directors   under said Rule 16b-3.

BYLAWS OF 

WOODWARD
GOVERNOR COMPANY 

Page 5 of 12 

SECTION 4.2. ELECTION OF COMMITTEE MEMBERS 

The members of each committee shall be elected by the Board of Directors and shall serve until the
first meeting of the Board of Directors after the annual meeting of stockholders and until their
successors are elected and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. The Board of
Directors may designate the chairman of each committee other than the Executive Committee and may
designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee who may replace any absent or
disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member
and all alternate members who may serve in the place and stead of such member, the member or
members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member
or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to
act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.

SECTION 4.3. COMMITTEE RULES AND PROCEDURES 

The Chairman of the Board of Directors, the chairman of any committee, or a majority of the
members of any committee, may call a meeting of that committee. Unless the Board of Directors
otherwise provides, each committee may make, alter and repeal rules and procedures for the conduct
of its business. In the absence of such rules and procedures, each committee shall conduct its
business in the same manner as the Board of Directors conducts its business pursuant to Article III
of these bylaws, except that a quorum of the Management Operations Committee for the transaction of
business shall consist of one member so long as such committee consists of two members.

SECTION 4.4. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 

During the intervals between meetings of the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee
shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the
management of the business and affairs of the corporation upon any matter which in the opinion of
the Chairman of the Board of Directors should not be postponed until the next previously scheduled
meeting of the Board of Directors. The Executive Committee shall have the power and authority to
declare cash dividends. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as provided by law the Executive Committee
shall not have power or authority in reference to amending the Certificate of Incorporation,
adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease
or exchange of all or substantially all of the corporation s property and assets, recommending to
the stockholders a dissolution of the corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or amending
these bylaws.

SECTION 4.5. AUDIT COMMITTEE 

The Audit Committee shall have the power to recommend to the Board of Directors the
selection and engagement of independent accountants to audit the books and accounts of the
corporation and the discharge of the independent accountants. The Audit Committee shall review the
scope and approach of the annual audit as recommended by the independent accountants, the scope and
approach of internal audits of the corporation, the system of internal accounting controls of the
corporation, and shall review the reports to the Audit Committee of the independent accountants and
the internal auditors.

SECTION 4.6. COMPENSATION COMMITTEE 

The Compensation Committee shall have the power to recommend to the Board of Directors the
compensation of the officers and key personnel of the corporation, to administer the Corporation s
2006 Omnibus Incentive Plan in accordance with the terms of the 2006 Omnibus Incentive Plan, and to
make all determinations and to take all such actions in connection therewith or in relation thereto
as it deems necessary or advisable, including the granting of all incentives to eligible worker
members in accordance with the terms of the 2006 Omnibus Incentive Plan.

SECTION 4.7. NOMINATING AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE 

The Nominating and Governance Committee shall have the power to recommend to the Board of
Directors candidates for election to the Board of Directors.

SECTION 4.8. MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS COMMITTEE 

The Management Operations Committee shall have the power to authorize and approve such
routine matters arising in the ordinary course of business of the corporation as the Board of
Directors shall establish from time to time by resolution. The Management Operations Committee
shall have no power or authority to declare cash dividends and shall have no power denied to the
Executive Committee in Section 4.4 hereof.

BYLAWS OF 

WOODWARD
GOVERNOR COMPANY 

Page 6
of 12 

ARTICLE V 
Officers 

SECTION 5.1. OFFICERS 

The officers of the corporation shall be a President, one or more Vice Presidents (the
number thereof to be determined by the Board of Directors), a Treasurer and a Secretary, all of
whom shall be elected by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may elect the Chairman of
the Board of Directors as an officer of the corporation, provided that the Chairman shall not be
regarded as an officer of the corporation unless the Board of Directors so determines at the time
of election in accordance with Section 5.6 of these bylaws. In addition, the Board of Directors
may elect one or more Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries, and may elect a Vice Chairman
of the Board of Directors.

SECTION 5.2. OTHER OFFICERS AND AGENTS 

The Board of Directors may appoint such other officers and agents as it may deem advisable,
who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties
as shall be determined from time to time by the Board.

SECTION 5.3. QUALIFICATIONS 

Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, each officer of the corporation shall
be under the age of 65 at the time of election. None of the officers of the corporation, except the
Chairman of the Board of Directors, if also an officer of the corporation, and the Vice Chairman of
the Board of Directors, need be a Director.

SECTION 5.4. ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE 

The officers of the corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the
first meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of shareholders. If the
election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon
thereafter as conveniently may be. Vacancies may be filled or new offices created and filled at any
meeting of the Board of Directors. Each officer shall hold office until his successor shall have
been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his death or until he shall resign or shall
have been removed in the manner hereinafter provided.

SECTION 5.5. REMOVAL 

Any officer or agent elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed by the
Board of Directors whenever in its judgment the best interests of the corporation would be served
thereby, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person
so removed.

SECTION 5.6. CHAIRMAN 

The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be elected from among the members of the Board of
Directors. At the time of such election, the Board shall determine whether the Chairman shall also
be elected an officer of the corporation. He shall have such duties and powers as shall be
assigned to him by the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside at
all meetings of the stockholders and all meetings of the Board of Directors and shall advise and
consult with the President and Chief Executive Officer concerning the management of the business
and affairs of the corporation.

SECTION 5.7. VICE CHAIRMAN 

The Board of Directors may from time to time elect a Vice Chairman of the Board of
Directors. Such Vice Chairman shall be a director and shall serve as Vice Chairman until his term
of office as director concludes, or until his successor as Vice Chairman shall have been elected
and qualified, whichever event shall first occur. The Vice Chairman shall perform the duties and
exercise all the powers of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, when, and for so long as the
Chairman of the Board of Directors so directs in writing. The Vice Chairman shall perform such
other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him by the Board of Directors.

BYLAWS OF 

WOODWARD
GOVERNOR COMPANY 

Page 7 of 12 

SECTION 5.8. PRESIDENT 

The President shall be the chief executive officer of the corporation and shall have general
supervision of the business affairs and property of the corporation and over its several officers,
subject, however, to the control of the Board of Directors. He shall, subject to the direction and
control of the Board of Directors, be its representative and medium of communication; he shall, to
the best of his ability, see that the acts of the officers conform to the policies of the
corporation as determined by the Board of Directors, and shall perform such duties as may from time
to time be assigned to him by the Board of Directors.

SECTION 5.9. VICE PRESIDENTS 

Each Vice President shall have such duties and powers as shall be assigned to him or her by
the President or by the Board of Directors.

SECTION 5.10. TREASURER 

If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give a bond for the faithful
discharge of his duties in such sum and with such surety or sureties as the Board of Directors
shall determine. He shall: (a) have charge and custody of and be responsible for all funds and
securities of the corporation; receive and give receipts for monies due and payable to the
corporation from any source whatsoever, and deposit all such monies in the name of the corporation
in such banks, trust companies, or other depositories as shall be selected by the Board of
Directors; and (b) in general perform all the duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such
other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the President or by the Board of
Directors.

SECTION 5.11. SECRETARY 

The Secretary shall: (a) keep the minutes of the meetings of the stockholders and of the
Board of Directors in one or more books provided for the purpose; (b) see that all notices are duly
given in accordance with the provisions of these bylaws or as required by law; (c) be custodian of
the corporate records and of the seal of the corporation and see that the seal of the corporation
is affixed to all certificates for shares prior to the issue thereof and to all documents, the
execution of which on behalf of the corporation under its seal is duly authorized in accordance
with the provisions of these bylaws; (d) keep a register of the post office address of each
stockholder which shall be furnished to the secretary by such stockholder; (e) sign with the
Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, or a Vice President,
certificates for shares of the corporation, the issue of which shall have been authorized by
resolution of the Board of Directors; (f) have general charge of the stock transfer books of the
corporation; (g) in general perform all duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other
duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the President or by the Board of Directors.

SECTION 5.12. ASSISTANT TREASURERS AND ASSISTANT SECRETARIES 

The Assistant Treasurers shall respectively, if required by the Board of Directors, give
bonds for the faithful discharge of their duties in such sums and with such sureties as the Board
of Directors shall determine. The Assistant Secretaries, as thereunto authorized by the Board of
Directors, may sign with the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President or
a Vice President certificates for shares of the corporation, the issue of which shall have been
authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors. The Assistant Treasurers and Assistant
Secretaries, in general, shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the Treasurer or
the Secretary respectively, or by the President or the Board of Directors.

SECTION 5.13. SALARIES 

The salaries of the officers shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors and
no officer shall be prevented from receiving such salary by reason of the fact that he is also a
director of the corporation.

BYLAWS OF 

WOODWARD
GOVERNOR COMPANY 

Page 8
of 12 

ARTICLE VI 
Stock 

SECTION 6.1. CERTIFICATES OF STOCK 

Every holder of stock in the corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by,
or in the name of the corporation, by the Chairman or the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,
or the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the
Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by
him in the corporation. Any of or all the signatures on the certificate and the seal of the
corporation if one be used may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent, or registrar
who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to
be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued
by the corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at
the date of issue.

SECTION 6.2. TRANSFER OF STOCK 

Transfer of shares of the corporation shall be made only on the books of the corporation by
the registered holder thereof, by his attorney thereunto authorized, by power of attorney duly
executed and filed with the Secretary of the corporation, and on surrender for cancellation of the
certificate for such shares properly endorsed and with all taxes thereon paid. The person in whose
name shares stand on the books of the corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all
purposes as regards the corporation. However, if any transfer of shares is made only for the
purpose of furnishing collateral security and such fact is made known to the Secretary of the
corporation, or to the corporation s transfer clerk or transfer agent, the entry of the transfer
shall record such fact.

SECTION 6.3. TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR 

The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents and registrars, and
thereafter it may require all stock certificates to bear the signature of a transfer agent and a
registrar or a facsimile thereof.

SECTION 6.4. RULES OF TRANSFER 

The Board of Directors shall have the power and authority to make all such rules and
regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of
certificates for the shares of the corporation.

SECTION 6.5. LOST CERTIFICATE 

Any person claiming a certificate for shares of the corporation to have been lost, stolen,
or destroyed shall make an affidavit of the fact and lodge such affidavit with the Secretary of the
corporation, accompanied by a signed application for a new certificate. Any such person shall give
the corporation a bond of indemnity with one or more sureties satisfactory to the Board of
Directors and in an amount which in its judgment, shall be sufficient to save the corporation from
loss, and thereupon, the proper officers may cause to be issued a new certificate of like tenor
with the one alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed, but the Board of Directors may refuse
the issuance of such new certificate.

SECTION 6.6. DIVIDENDS 

Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may,
out of funds legally available therefor, at any regular or special meeting, declare dividends upon
the capital stock of the corporation as and when it deems expedient. Before declaring any dividend
there may be set apart out of any funds of the corporation available for dividends, such sum or
sums as the directors from time to time in their discretion deem proper for working capital or as a
reserve fund to meet contingencies or for equalizing dividends or for such other purposes as the
directors shall deem conducive to the interests of the corporation.

BYLAWS OF 

WOODWARD
GOVERNOR COMPANY 

Page 9 of 12 

ARTICLE VII 
Indemnification 

SECTION 7.1. 

(a)  The corporation shall indemnify, subject to the requirements of subsection (d) of
this Section, any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any
threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal,
administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the corporation), by
reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee, or agent of the corporation, or
is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee, fiduciary or
agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other
enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys  fees), judgments, fines, penalties, taxes and
amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action,
suit or proceeding if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not
opposed to the best interests of the corporation and, with respect to any criminal action or
proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. The termination of any
action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction or upon a plea of nolo
contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not
act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best
interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had
reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.

(b)  The corporation shall indemnify, subject to the requirements of subsection (d) of this
Section, any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened,
pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the corporation to procure a judgment in
its favor by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the
corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer,
employee, fiduciary or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee
benefit plan or other enterprise against expenses (including attorneys  fees) actually and
reasonably incurred by him in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if
he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best
interests of the corporation and except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any
claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the
corporation unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or
the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite
the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is
fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Court of Chancery of the
State of Delaware or such other court shall deem proper.

(c)  To the extent that a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation, or a
director, officer, employee, fiduciary or agent of any other enterprise serving at the request of
the corporation, has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or
proceeding referred to in subsections (a) and (b) of this Section, or in defense of any claim,
issue or matter therein, the corporation shall indemnify him against expenses (including attorneys 
fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith.

(d)  Any indemnification under subsections (a) and (b) of this Section (unless ordered by a
court) shall be made by the corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a
determination that indemnification of the director, officer, employee, fiduciary or agent is proper
in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in subsections
(a) and (b) of this Section. Such determination shall be made (1) by the Board of Directors by a
majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to such action, suit or
proceeding, or (2) if such a quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable a quorum of
disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (3) by
the stockholders.

(e)  Expenses (including attorney s fees) incurred by a director, officer, employee, fiduciary
or agent in defending any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or
proceeding may be paid by the corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit
or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the director, officer, employee,
fiduciary or agent to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he is not
entitled to be indemnified by the corporation as authorized in this Section.

(f)  The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to the
other subsections of this Section shall not limit the corporation from providing any other
indemnification permitted by law nor shall it be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which
those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any bylaw,
agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his
official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office.

BYLAWS OF 

WOODWARD
GOVERNOR COMPANY 

Page 10 of 12 

(g)  The provisions of this Section shall be applicable to all actions, suits or proceedings
pending at the time or commenced after the adoption of this Section, whether arising from acts or
omissions to act occurring, or based on claims asserted, before or after the adoption of this
Section. A finding that any provision of this Section is invalid or of limited application shall
not affect any other provision of this Section nor shall a finding that any portion of any
provision of this Section is invalid or of limited application affect the balance of such
provision. The adoption of this Section shall not impair the rights any person may have had under
Article XII of the bylaws of Woodward Governor Company, an Illinois corporation, so that if such
person is not entitled to the benefit of the provisions of this Section with respect to any action,
suit or proceeding, he shall continue to be entitled to the benefit of the provisions of Article
XII of the bylaws of Woodward Governor Company, an Illinois corporation, with respect to such
action, suit or proceeding.

(h)  The corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was
a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of
the corporation as a director, officer, employee, fiduciary or agent of another corporation,
partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against any liability
asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as
such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability
under the provisions of this Section.

(i)  For the purposes of this Section, references to  the corporation  shall include, in
addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a
constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued,
would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, and employees or agents,
so that any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent
corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director,
officer, employee, fiduciary or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust,
employee benefit plan or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of
this Section with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as he would have with respect
to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.

(j)  The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this
Section shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent
and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.

ARTICLE VIII 
Contracts, Loans, Checks, and Deposits 

SECTION 8.1. CONTRACTS 

The Board of Directors may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents, to enter into
any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the corporation,
and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.

SECTION 8.2. LOANS 

No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the corporation and no evidence of indebtedness
shall be issued in its name unless authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors. Such
authority may be general or confined to specific instances.

SECTION 8.3. CHECKS 

All checks, drafts, or other orders for payment of money, notes, or other evidences of
indebtedness issued in the name of the corporation, shall be signed by such officer or officers,
agent or agents of the corporation and in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by
resolution of the Board of Directors.

SECTION 8.4. DEPOSITS 

All funds of the corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to
the credit of the corporation in such banks, trust companies, or other depositories as the Board of
Directors may select.

BYLAWS OF 

WOODWARD
GOVERNOR COMPANY 

Page 11 of 12 

ARTICLE IX 
General Provisions 

SECTION 9.1. SEAL 

The corporate seal of the corporation shall be circular in form and shall contain the name
of the corporation and the words:  Rockford, Illinois. Incorporated June 1902.  Said seal may be
used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed, affixed, or reproduced.

SECTION 9.2. FISCAL YEAR 

The fiscal year of the corporation shall commence on the first day of October and shall end
of the thirtieth day of September in each year.

SECTION 9.3. RESIGNATIONS 

Any director or officer may resign at any time. Such resignation shall be made in writing
and shall take effect at the time specified therein, and if no time be specified, at the time of
its receipt by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,
the President, or the Secretary. The acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it
effective.

SECTION 9.4. WAIVER OF NOTICE 

Whenever any notice is required to be given under the provisions of the statutes or of the
Certificate of Incorporation or of these bylaws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person or
persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed
equivalent thereto. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such
meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the
beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully
called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or
special meeting of the stockholders, directors or members of a committee of directors need be
specified in any written waiver of notice.

ARTICLE X 
Amendments 

SECTION 10.1. BYLAW AMENDMENTS 

The Board of Directors shall have concurrent power with the stockholders to adopt, amend or
repeal these bylaws; provided, however, that (i) these bylaws shall not be adopted, amended or
repealed by the stockholders except by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the
outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation, and (ii) no bylaw may be adopted by the
stockholders which shall impair or impede the power of the Board of Directors under paragraph A of
Article SEVENTH of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation.

</EX-3.(II)>

<EX-10.11>
 3
 c10357exv10w11.htm
 FORM OF TRANSITIONAL COMPENSATION AGREEMENT

exv10w11 

Exhibit 10.11 
Woodward Governor Company 
Form of Transitional Compensation Agreement

TRANSITIONAL COMPENSATION AGREEMENT 

THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into as of August 22, 2005 by and between Woodward Governor
Company, a Delaware corporation, (hereinafter called the  Corporation ) and Robert F. Weber, Jr.
(hereinafter called the  Executive ).

WITNESSETH THAT:

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board ) has determined that it is in
the best interests of the Corporation and its shareholders to assure that the Corporation will have
the continued dedication of the Executive, despite the possibility, threat or occurrence of a
Change in Control (as defined below) of the Corporation; and

WHEREAS, the Board believes that it is imperative to diminish the inevitable distraction of
the Executive which would result from the personal uncertainties and risks created by a threatened
or pending Change in Control and to encourage the Executive s full attention and dedication to the
business of the Corporation currently and in the event of any threatened or pending Change in
Control and to provide the Executive with appropriate compensation and benefit protection upon a
Change in Control;

NOW, THEREFORE, the Corporation and the Executive, each intending to be legally bound, hereby
mutually covenant and agree as follows:

1.  Term . This Agreement shall become effective upon the occurrence of a Change in
Control (as defined in Paragraph 4(d), below) (hereinafter called the  Effective Date ) and shall
remain in effect for a term continuing until the end of the twenty-fourth (24th) calendar month
following the month in which the Effective Date occurs; provided, however, that, anything in this
Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, if a Change in Control occurs and if the Executive s
employment with the Corporation was terminated prior to the date on which the Change in Control
occurs, and if it is reasonably demonstrated by the Executive that such termination of employment
(a) was at the request of a third party who was taking steps reasonably calculated to effect a
Change in Control or (b) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of a Change in Control,
then

for all purposes of this Agreement the  Effective Date  shall mean the date immediately prior
to the date of such termination of employment.

2.  Employment . After the Effective Date, the Corporation shall employ the Executive
to, and the Executive shall, exercise such authority and perform such executive duties as are
commensurate with the authority being exercised and performed by the Executive during the
ninety-day period immediately prior to the Effective Date, which services shall be performed at the
location where the Executive was employed immediately prior to the Effective Date. The Executive
shall also continue to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, if serving
as such as of the Effective Date. The Executive shall devote substantially his entire time during
reasonable business hours (reasonable sick leave and vacations excepted) and reasonable best
efforts to fulfill faithfully and responsibly his duties hereunder. During the period of
employment after the Effective Date, it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the
Executive to serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, or be involved in civic,
charitable or educational endeavors, or manage personal investments, so long as such activities do
not significantly interfere with the performance of Executive s responsibilities as an employee of
the Corporation hereunder. It is expressly agreed and understood that to the extent any such
activities were conducted by the Executive prior to the Effective Date, the continued conduct of
such or similar activities subsequent to the Effective Date shall not thereafter be deemed to
interfere with the performance of the Executive s responsibilities to the Corporation.

3.  Compensation and Benefits . For the Executive s employment with the Corporation
after the Effective Date, the Executive shall be compensated as follows:

(a) The Executive shall receive an annual base salary at a rate not less than the highest
aggregate annual base salary and seniority-based vacation plan amount paid or payable to the
Executive by the Corporation during the 24 month period immediately prior to the Effective Date, to
be paid in accordance the Corporation s regular payroll practices. Such amount, or such greater
annual base salary rate which may be paid or payable to the Executive after the Effective Date, is
hereinafter referred to as the  Annual Base Salary. 

2 

(b) The Executive shall be eligible to participate on a reasonable basis in the Corporation s
bonus and incentive compensation plans and programs which provide opportunities to receive
compensation which are not less than opportunities provided by the Corporation for executives with
comparable annual base salary.

(c) The Executive shall be entitled to receive executive and employee benefits and perquisites
which are not less than the executive and employee benefits and perquisites provided by the
Corporation to executives with comparable duties or annual base salary.

4.  Termination . Unless earlier terminated in accordance with the following provisions
of this Paragraph 4, the Corporation shall continue to employ the Executive and the Executive shall
remain employed by the Corporation from the Effective Date through the end of the term of this
Agreement as set forth in Paragraph 1, above. Paragraph 6 hereof sets forth certain obligations of
the Corporation in the event that the Executive s employment hereunder is terminated prior to the
expiration of such term. Certain capitalized terms used in this Paragraph 4 and in Paragraphs 5
and 6 hereof are defined in Paragraph 4(d), below.

(a)  Death or Disability . The Executive s employment shall terminate immediately as of
the Date of Termination in the event of the Executive s death or in the event that the Executive
becomes disabled. The Executive will be deemed to be disabled upon the earlier of (i) the end of a
six (6)-consecutive month period during which, by reason of physical or mental injury or disease,
the Executive has been unable to perform substantially all of his usual and customary duties under
this Agreement or (ii) the date that a reputable physician selected by the Board, and as to whom
the Executive has no reasonable objection, determines in writing that the Executive will, by reason
of physical or mental injury or disease, be unable to perform substantially all of the Executive s
usual and customary duties under this Agreement for a period of at least six (6) consecutive
months. If any question arises as to whether the Executive is disabled, upon reasonable request
therefor by the Board, the Executive shall submit to reasonable medical examination for the purpose
of determining the existence, nature and extent of any such disability. The Board

  3 

shall promptly give the Executive written notice of any such determination of the Executive s
disability and of any decision of the Board to terminate the Executive s employment by reason
thereof. Until the Date of Termination for disability, the base salary payable to the Executive
shall be reduced dollar-for-dollar by the amount of any disability benefits paid to the Executive
in accordance with any disability policy or program of the Corporation.

(b)  Discharge for Cause . In accordance with the procedures hereinafter set forth, the
Board may discharge the Executive from his employment hereunder for Cause. Any discharge of the
Executive for Cause shall be communicated by a Notice of Termination to the Executive given in
accordance with Paragraph 14 of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, a  Notice of
Termination  means a written notice which (i) indicates the specific termination provision in this
Agreement relied upon, (ii) sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to
provide a basis for termination of the Executive s employment under the provision so indicated and
(iii) specifies the termination date, which may be as early as the date of the giving of such
notice. No purported termination of the Executive s employment for Cause shall be effective
without a Notice of Termination.

(c)  Termination for Other Reasons . The Corporation may discharge the Executive
without Cause by giving written notice to the Executive in accordance with Paragraph 14 at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the Date of Termination. The Executive may resign from his employment,
without liability to the Corporation, by giving written notice to the Corporation in accordance
with Paragraph 14 at least fifteen (15) days prior to the Date of Termination.

(d)  Definitions . For purposes of this Agreement, the following capitalized terms
shall have the meanings set forth below:

(i)  Accrued Obligations  shall mean, as of the Date of Termination, the sum of (A) the
Executive s base salary through the Date of Termination to the extent not theretofore paid, (B) the
amount of any bonus, incentive compensation, deferred compensation and other cash compensation
accrued by the Executive as of the Date of Termination to the extent not theretofore paid and (C)
any vacation pay, expense

4 

reimbursements and other cash entitlements accrued by the Executive as of the Date of Termination
to the extent not theretofore paid. For the purpose of this Paragraph 4(d)(i), amounts shall be
deemed to accrue ratably over the period during which they are earned, but no discretionary
compensation shall be deemed earned or accrued until it is specifically approved by the Board or
the Compensation Committee in accordance with the applicable plan, program or policy.

(ii)  Cause  shall mean: (A) the Executive s commission of an act materially and demonstrably
detrimental to the financial condition and/or goodwill of the Corporation or any of its
subsidiaries, which act constitutes gross negligence or willful misconduct by the Executive in the
performance of his material duties to the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, or (B) the
Executive s commission of any material act of dishonesty or breach of trust resulting or intended
to result in material personal gain or enrichment of the Executive at the expense of the
Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, or (C) the Executive s conviction of a felony involving
moral turpitude, but specifically excluding any conviction based entirely on vicarious liability.
No act or failure to act will be considered  willful  unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by
the Executive in bad faith or without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best
interests of the Corporation. In addition, no act or omission will constitute Cause unless (A) a
resolution finding that Cause exists has been approved by a majority of all of the members of the
Board at a meeting at which the Executive is allowed to appear with his legal counsel and (B) the
Corporation has given detailed written notice thereof to the Executive and, where remedial action
is feasible, he then fails to remedy the act or omission within a reasonable time after receiving
such notice.

5 

(iii) A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if:

(A) Any  person  (as defined in Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )), excluding for this purpose the Corporation or any
subsidiary of the Corporation, or any employee benefit plan of the Corporation or any subsidiary of
the Corporation, or any person or entity organized, appointed or established by the Corporation for
or pursuant to the terms of such plan which acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of
the Corporation, is or becomes the  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange
Act) directly or indirectly of securities of the Corporation representing fifteen percent (15%) or
more of the combined voting power of the Corporation s then outstanding securities; provided,
however, that no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred (1) as the result of an
acquisition of securities of the Corporation by the Corporation which, by reducing the number of
voting securities outstanding, increases the direct or indirect beneficial ownership interest of
any person to fifteen percent (15%) or more of the combined voting power of the Corporation s then
outstanding securities, but any subsequent increase in the direct or indirect beneficial ownership
interest of such a person in the Corporation shall be deemed a Change in Control, or (2) as a
result of the acquisition directly from the Corporation of securities of the Corporation
representing less than 50% of the voting power of the Corporation, or (3) if the Board of Directors
of the Corporation determines in good faith that a person who has become the beneficial owner
directly or indirectly of securities of the Corporation representing fifteen percent (15%) or more
of the combined voting power of the Corporation s then outstanding securities has inadvertently
reached that level of ownership interest, and if such person divests as promptly as practicable a
sufficient amount of securities of the Corporation so that the person no longer has a direct or
indirect beneficial ownership interest in fifteen percent (15%) or more of the combined voting
power of the Corporation s then outstanding securities; or

(B) During any period of two (2) consecutive years (not including any period prior to the
Effective Date of this Agreement), individuals who at the beginning of such two-year period
constitute the Board of

6 

Directors of the Corporation and any new director or directors (except for any director designated
by a person who has entered into an agreement with the Corporation to effect a transaction
described in subparagraph (A), above, or subparagraph (C), below) whose election by the Board or
nomination for election by the Corporation s shareholders was approved by a vote of at least
two-thirds of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the
period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any
reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board (such individuals and any such new directors
being referred to as the  Incumbent Board  or

(C) Consummation of (1) an agreement for the sale or disposition of the Corporation or all or
substantially all of the Corporation s assets, (2) a plan of merger or consolidation of the
Corporation with any other corporation, or (3) a similar transaction or series of transactions
involving the Corporation (any transaction described in parts (1) through (3) of this subparagraph
(C) being referred to as a  Business Combination ), in each case unless after such a Business
Combination (x) the shareholders of the Corporation immediately prior to the Business Combination
continue to own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty-one percent (51%) of the combined voting
power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of
directors of the new (or continued) entity (including, but not by way of limitation, an entity
which as a result of such transaction owns the Corporation or all or substantially all of the
Corporation s former assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) immediately after
such Business Combination, in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the
Corporation immediately prior to such Business Combination, and (y) at least a majority of the
members of the board of directors of the entity resulting from such Business Combination were
members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the
action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or

(D) Approval by the shareholders of the Corporation of a complete liquidation or dissolution
of the Corporation.

(iv)  Date of Termination  shall mean (A) in the event of a discharge of the Executive by the
Board for Cause,

7 

the date specified in such Notice of Termination, (B) in the event of a discharge of the Executive
without Cause or a resignation by the Executive, the date specified in the written notice to the
Executive (in the case of discharge) or the Corporation (in the case of resignation), which date
shall be no less than fifteen (15) days from the date of such written notice, (C) in the event of
the Executive s death, the date of the Executive s death, and (D) in the event of termination of
the Executive s employment by reason of disability pursuant to Paragraph 4(a), the date the
Executive receives written notice of such termination.

(v)  Good Reason  shall mean any of the following without the written consent of the
Executive: (A)(1) assignment of duties inconsistent with the Executive s position, authority,
duties or responsibilities referred to in Paragraph 2, or any action by the Corporation which
results in a substantial diminution of such position, authority, duties or responsibilities, other
than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied
by the Corporation promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive, or (2) if
applicable, removal or other failure to continue Executive as a member of the Board as required by
Paragraph 2, (B) any reduction in Executive s Annual Base Salary, or bonus or incentive
opportunities from those referred to in Paragraph 3(a) or 3(b), other than an isolated,
insubstantial and inadvertent reduction not made in bad faith and which is remedied by the
Corporation promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive, or (C) a relocation of
Executive to an office location more than 30 miles from the location referred to in Paragraph 2, or
(D) failure by the Corporation to provide Executive with the executive or employee benefits and
perquisities referred to in Paragraph 3(c), other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent
reduction not made in bad faith and which is remedied by the Corporation promptly after receipt of
notice thereof given by the Executive, or (E) failure by any successor to enter into the assumption
of and agreement to perform this Agreement referred to in Paragraph 13. For purposes of this
Paragraph 4(d)(v), any good faith determination by the Executive that one of the foregoing events
has occurred shall be conclusive. In addition, resignation for any reason by the Executive, which
resignation is to be effective at any time during the 30 day period beginning twelve (12) months
after the Effective Date shall constitute a resignation for Good Reason; provided, further, that if
the

8 

Executive dies after the execution of a definitive agreement for a transaction which will
constitute a Change in Control but before the expiration of such 30-day period, then the Executive
shall be deemed to have terminated employment for Good Reason on the later of (1) the effective
date of the Change in Control or (2) the date of the Executive s death or termination of employment
due to disability.

(vi)  Qualifying Termination  shall mean termination of the Executive s employment after the
Effective Date and during the term of this Agreement as described in Paragraph 1, above, (A) by
reason of the discharge of the Executive by the Corporation other than for Cause or disability or
(B) by reason of the resignation of the Executive for Good Reason within six (6) months after an
event constituting Good Reason or (C) in accordance with the last sentence of the definition of
Good Reason in subparagraph (v), above.

5.  Vesting of Equity Awards Upon a Change in Control . Immediately upon a Change in
Control, all stock options, restricted stock and other equity awards to the Executive which are not
otherwise vested shall vest in full, and all options shall remain exercisable for the period
provided for in the applicable plan or award agreement.

6.  Obligations of the Corporation Upon Termination . The following provisions describe
certain obligations of the Corporation to the Executive under this Agreement upon termination of
his employment. However, except as explicitly provided in this Agreement, nothing in this
Agreement shall limit or otherwise adversely affect any rights which the Executive may have under
applicable law, under any other agreement with the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, or under
any compensation or benefit plan, program, policy or practice of the Corporation or any of its
subsidiaries.

(a)  Death, Disability, Discharge for Cause, or Resignation Without Good Reason . In
the event the Executive s employment terminates by reason of the death or disability of the
Executive (other than in circumstances which constitute a Qualifying Terminiation under Paragraph
4(d)(vi)(C)), or by reason of the discharge of the Executive by the Corporation for Cause, or by
reason of the resignation of the Executive other than for Good Reason, the Corporation shall pay to
the Executive, or his designated beneficiaries, heirs or estate, in

  9 

the event of the Executive s death, all Accrued Obligations in a lump sum within thirty (30) days
after the Date of Termination; provided, however, that any portion of the Accrued Obligations which
consists of bonus, deferred compensation, or incentive compensation shall be determined and paid in
accordance with the terms of the relevant plan as applicable to the Executive. In addition, if the
Executive s employment is terminated by death, disability or retirement under a retirement plan of
the Corporation or by resignation of the Executive other than for Good Reason, the Executive may,
in the discretion of the Compensation Committee, be awarded a pro rata cash bonus for the year in
which the Date of Termination occurs.

(b)  Qualifying Termination . In the event of a Qualifying Termination, the Executive
shall receive the following benefits:

(i) Payment of all Accrued Obligations in a lump sum on the Date of Termination; provided,
however, that any portion of the Accrued Obligations which consists of bonus, deferred compensation
or incentive compensation shall be determined and paid in accordance with the terms of the relevant
plan as applicable to the Executive,

(ii) A pro rata cash bonus for the year in which the Date of Termination occurs, determined
and paid in accordance with the terms of the then current annual bonus plan applicable to the
Executive,

(iii) Payment in a lump sum on the Date of Termination of a salary replacement amount equal to
three hundred percent (300%) of the annual base salary required to be paid to Executive pursuant to
Paragraph 3(a) above, or if greater, the rate of annual salary as in effect immediately prior to
the Date of Termination,

(iv) Payment in a lump sum on the Date of Termination of a bonus replacement amount equal to
three hundred percent (300%) of the highest of the annual bonus paid or payable to the Executive
for the three (3) years preceding the year in which the Date of Termination occurs or, if greater,
the Executive s target bonus for year in which the Date of Termination occurs,

10 

(v) Payment in a lump sum on the Date of Termination of a retirement replacement amount equal
to 300% of the sum of the Member Investment and Stock Ownership Plan, Retirement Income Plan and
Unfunded Deferred Compensation Plan contributions made or credited by the Corporation for the
benefit of the Executive for the plan year of each such plan during which the Date of Termination
occurs or, if greater, for the plan year of each such plan (or any successor or replacement plan)
immediately preceding the plan year in which the Effective Date occurs,

(vi) Continuation, for a period of three (3) years after the Date of Termination, of the
following employee benefits on terms at least as favorable to the Executive as those which would
have been provided if the Executive s employment had continued for that time pursuant to this
Agreement, with the cost of such benefits to be paid by the Corporation: medical and dental
benefits, life and disability insurance, and executive physical examinations. To the extent the
Corporation is unable to provide comparable insurance for reasons other than cost, the Corporation
may provide a lesser level or no coverage and compensate the Executive for the difference in
coverage through a cash lump sum payment grossed up for taxes. This payment will be tied to the
cost of an individual insurance policy if it were assumed to be available. Upon the expiration of
the coverage provided under this paragraph (vi), the Executive and Executive s dependents will be
entitled to elect COBRA continuation coverage on the same basis as would be extended with respect
to an employee whose employment terminated at the time of such expiration.

(vii) Outplacement services, at the expense of the Corporation, from a provider reasonably
selected by the Executive, and

(viii) Tax preparation services for the Executive s taxable year in which the Date of
Termination occurs, provided at the expense of the Corporation, on the same basis as provided to
Executive immediately prior to the Effective Date.

7.  Certain Additional Payments by the Corporation . The Corporation agrees that:

11 

(a) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event it shall be
determined that any payment or distribution by the Corporation to or for the benefit of the
Executive (whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement or otherwise, but determined without regard to any additional payments required under
this Paragraph 7) (a  Payment ) would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (the  Code ) or if any interest or penalties are
incurred by the Executive with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such
interest and penalties, being hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Excise Tax ), then the
Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a  Gross-Up Payment ) in an amount
such that, after payment by the Executive of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed
with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income taxes (and any interest and
penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the
Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the
Payment.

(b) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c), below, all determinations required to be made
under this Paragraph 7, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of
such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall
be made by the accounting firm which is then serving as the auditors for the Corporation (the
 Accounting Firm ), which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Corporation
and the Executive within fifteen (15) business days of the receipt of notice from the Executive
that there has been a Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the Corporation. In the
event that the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or
group effecting the Change in Control, the Executive shall appoint another nationally recognized
accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then be
referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder). All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall
be borne solely by the Corporation. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to this Paragraph
7, shall be paid by the Corporation to the Executive within five (5) days of the receipt of the
Accounting Firm s determination. If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable
by the Executive, it shall furnish the

  12 

Executive with a written opinion that failure to report the Excise Tax on the Executive s
applicable federal income tax return would not result in the imposition of a negligence or similar
penalty. Any good faith determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Corporation
and the Executive. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code
at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that
Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by the Corporation should have been made
( Underpayment ), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event
that the Corporation exhausts its remedies pursuant to paragraph (c), below, and the Executive
thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the
amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by
the Corporation to or for the benefit of the Executive.

(c) The Executive shall notify the Corporation in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue
Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Corporation of a Gross-Up Payment.
Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable but no later than fifteen (15) business
days after the Executive is informed in writing of such claim and shall apprise the Corporation of
the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. The Executive
shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the thirty (30)-day period following the date
on which Executive gives such notice to the Corporation (or such shorter period ending on the date
that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Corporation notifies the
Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim,
the Executive shall:

(i) Give the Corporation any information reasonably requested by the Corporation relating to
such claim,

(ii) Take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Corporation shall
reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting legal
representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Corporation,

(iii) Cooperate with the Corporation in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim,
and

13 

(iv) Permit the Corporation to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim;

provided, however, that the Corporation shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses
(including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall
indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for all taxes (including interest
and penalties with respect thereto), including without limitation any Excise Tax and income tax
(including interest and penalties with respect thereto), imposed as a result of such representation
and payment of costs and expenses. Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this paragraph
(c), the Corporation shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest and, at
its sole option, may pursue or forego any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and
conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole option, either
direct the Executive to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any
permissible manner; and the Executive agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before
any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate
courts, as the Corporation shall determine; provided, however, that if the Corporation directs the
Executive to pay such claim and sue for a refund, the Corporation shall advance the amount of such
payment to the Executive on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify and hold the Executive
harmless, on an after-tax basis, for all taxes (including interest and penalties with respect
thereto), including without limitation any Excise Tax and income tax (including interest or
penalties with respect thereto), imposed with respect to such advance or with respect to any
imputed income with respect to such advance; and further provided that any extension of the statute
of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Executive with respect to
which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount.
Furthermore, the Corporation s control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to
which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and the Executive shall be entitled to settle
or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other
taxing authority.

(d) If, after the receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Corporation pursuant
to paragraph (c),

14 

above, the Executive becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to such claim, the
Executive shall (subject to the Corporation s complying with the requirements of said paragraph
(c)) promptly pay to the Corporation the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or
credited thereon, after taxes applicable thereto). If, after the receipt by the Executive of an
amount advanced by the Corporation pursuant to said paragraph (c), a determination is made that the
Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Corporation does
not notify the Executive in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the
expiration of thirty (30) days after such determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and
shall not be required to be repaid; and the amount of such advance shall offset, to the extent
thereof, the amount of the Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.

8.  Deferral; Grantor Trust . The Corporation shall provide Executive the opportunity
to defer the receipt of any amounts payable under Paragraph 6(b)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v)
hereunder and under the Unfunded Deferred Compensation Plan to such dates or dates as are
reasonably chosen by the Executive, such deferred amounts to appreciate at an annual rate
equivalent to 120% of the Moody s Long Term Corporate Bond Yield Average for the twelve month
period ending on September 30 of the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which such rate
shall be used. The election to so defer shall be made by Executive no later than one year prior to
the date such payments would otherwise due or such shorter period as the Corporation and the
Executive shall reasonably agree upon. The amounts deferred shall be distributed as elected by the
Executivbe from distributions options simialar to those available under the Unfunded Deferred
Compensation Plan as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date of this Agreement. In the
event the Executive shall make an election to defer receipt of amounts described in this Paragraph
8, the Corporation shall deposit into a grantor trust that meets the requirements of Rev. Proc.
92-64, 1992-2 C.B. 422, solely for the benefit of Executive, on terms reasonably acceptable to the
Executive, an amount equal to 110% of the amount so deferred. Such deposit shall be made on the
date such deferred amount would otherwise have been paid to Executive. On each anniversary of the
Date of Termination, the Corporation shall deposit into the trust an amount sufficient so that, as
of such anniversary, the value of the assets of the

15 

trust are not less than the obligations of the Corporation to the Executive under this Agreement.

9.  No Set-Off or Mitigation . The Corporation s obligation to make the payments
provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be
affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which
the Corporation may have against the Executive or others. In no event shall the Executive be
obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts
payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement, and such amounts shall not
be reduced whether or not the Executive obtains other employment.

10.  Payment of Certain Expenses . The Corporation shall pay the reasonable legal fees
and expenses incurred by the Executive in connection with the negotiation and preparation of this
Agreement. In addition, the Corporation shall pay promptly as incurred, to the fullest extent
permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses which the Executive may reasonably incur as a result
of any contest by the Corporation, the Executive or others of the validity or enforceability of, or
liability under, any provision of this Agreement (including as a result of any contest initiated by
the Executive about the amount of any payment due pursuant to this Agreement), plus in each case
interest on any delayed payment at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section
7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code, plus an additional amount such that after payment by the Executive of
all taxes imposed on such additional amount, the Executive shall retain an amount equal to the
total taxes imposed on the Executive due to the payment by the Corporation, to or for the
Executive, of legal fees and expenses with respect to any such contest; provided, however, that the
Corporation shall not be obligated to make such payment with respect to any contest in which the
Corporation prevails over the Executive.

11.  Indemnification . To the full extent permitted by law, the Corporation shall, both
during and after the term of the Executive s employment, indemnify the Executive (including the
advancement of expenses) for any judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement and reasonable
expenses, including attorneys  fees, incurred by the Executive in connection with the defense of
any lawsuit or other claim to which he is made a party by reason of being (or having been) an
officer, director or

16 

employee of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries. In addition, the Executive shall be
covered, both during and after the term of the Executive s employment, by director and officer
liability insurance to the maximum extent that such insurance covers any officer or director (or
former officer or director) of the Corporation.

12.  Confidentiality . During and after the period of employment with the Corporation,
the Executive shall not, without prior written consent from the Chief Executive Officer or the
General Counsel of the Corporation, directly or indirectly disclose to any individual, corporation
or other entity, other than to the Corporation or any subsidiary or affiliate thereof or their
officers, directors or employees entitled to such information or any other person or entity to whom
such information is disclosed in the normal course of the business of the Corporation) or use for
the Executive s own benefit or for the benefit of any such individual, corporation or other entity,
any Confidential Information of the Corporation. For purposes of this Agreement,  Confidential
Information  is information relating to the business of the Corporation or its subsidiaries or
affiliates (a) which is not generally known to the public or in the industry, (b) which has been
treated by the Corporation and its subsidiaries and affiliates as confidential or proprietary, (c)
which provides the Corporation or its subsidiaries or affiliates with a competitive advantage, and
(d) in the confidentiality of which the Corporation has a legally protectable interest.
Confidential Information which becomes generally known to the public or in the industry, or in the
confidentiality of which the Corporation and its subsidiaries and affiliates cease to have a
legally protectable interest, shall cease to be subject to the restrictions of this Paragraph 12.

13.  Binding Effect . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of
the heirs and representatives of the Executive and the successors and assigns of the Corporation.
Amounts payable under this Agreement upon the Executive s death shall be paid to his beneficiaries,
if any, designated in writing and filed with the Corporate Secretary, and in the absence of such
designation, shall be paid to his heirs by will or laws of descent and distribution. The
Corporation shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger,
reorganization, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, liquidation, or otherwise) to all
or a substantial

17 

portion of its assets, by agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Executive,
expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent
that the Corporation would be required to perform this Agreement if no such succession had taken
place. Regardless of whether such an agreement is executed, this Agreement shall be binding upon
any successor of the Corporation in accordance with the operation of law, and such successor shall
be deemed the  Corporation  for purposes of this Agreement.

14.  Notices . All notices, requests, demands and other communications hereunder shall
be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered by hand or by recognized
commercial delivery service or on the third business day after being mailed within the continental
United States by first class certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed
as follows:

(a) If to the Board or the Corporation, to:

Woodward Governor Company 
5001 North Second Street 
P.O. Box 7001 
Rockford, Illinois 61125 
Attn: Corporate Secretary

(b) If to the Executive, to:

Robert F. Weber, Jr. 
6477 Apache Drive 
Indian Head Park, IL 60525

Such addresses may be changed by written notice sent to the other party at the last recorded
address of that party.

15.  Tax Withholding . The Corporation shall provide for the withholding of any taxes
required to be withheld by federal, state, or local law with respect to any payment in cash, shares
of stock and/or other property made by or on behalf of the Corporation to or for the benefit of the
Executive under this Agreement or otherwise. The Corporation may, at its option: (a) withhold such
taxes from any cash payments owing from the Corporation to the Executive, (b) require the Executive
to pay to the Corporation in cash such amount as may be required to

18 

satisfy such withholding obligations and/or (c) make other satisfactory arrangements with the
Executive to satisfy such withholding obligations.

16.  Arbitration . Any dispute or controversy between the Corporation and the Executive
arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the breach of this Agreement shall be settled by
arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association ( AAA ) in accordance with its
Commercial Arbitration Rules then in effect, and judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator
may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. Any arbitration shall be held before a
single arbitrator who shall be selected by the mutual agreement of the Corporation and the
Executive, unless the parties are unable to agree to an arbitrator, in which case the arbitrator
will be selected under the procedures of the AAA. The arbitrator shall have the authority to award
any remedy or relief that a court of competent jurisdiction could order or grant, including,
without limitation, the issuance of an injunction. However, either party may, without
inconsistency with this arbitration provision, apply to any court otherwise having jurisdiction
over such dispute or controversy and seek interim provisional, injunctive or other equitable relief
until the arbitration award is rendered or the controversy is otherwise resolved. Except as
necessary in court proceedings to enforce this arbitration provision or an award rendered
hereunder, or to obtain interim relief, neither a party nor an arbitrator may disclose the
existence, content or results of any arbitration hereunder without the prior written consent of the
Corporation and the Executive. The Corporation and the Executive acknowledge that this Agreement
evidences a transaction involving interstate commerce. Notwithstanding any choice of law provision
included in this Agreement, the United States Federal Arbitration Act shall govern the
interpretation and enforcement of this arbitration provision. The arbitration proceeding shall be
conducted in Rockford, Illinois or such other location to which the parties may agree. The
Corporation shall pay the costs of any arbitrator appointed hereunder.

17.  No Assignment . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, this Agreement is
not assignable by any party and no payment to be made hereunder shall be subject to anticipation,
alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or other charge.

19 

18.  Execution in Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed by the parties hereto
in two (2) or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such
counterparts shall constitute one and the same instrument, and all signatures need not appear on
any one counterpart.

19.  Jurisdiction and Governing Law . This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted
in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Illinois, other than the conflict of
laws provisions of such laws.

20.  Severability . If any provision of this Agreement shall be adjudged by any court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, such judgment shall not
affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of this Agreement. Furthermore, if the scope of any
restriction or requirement contained in this Agreement is too broad to permit enforcement of such
restriction or requirement to its full extent, then such restriction or requirement shall be
enforced to the maximum extent permitted by law, and the Executive consents and agrees that any
court of competent jurisdiction may so modify such scope in any proceeding brought to enforce such
restriction or requirement.

21.  Prior Understandings . This Agreement embodies the entire understanding
of the parties hereto and supersedes all other oral or written agreements or
understandings between them regarding the subject matter hereof. No change, alteration
or modification hereof may be made except in a writing, signed by each of the parties
hereto. The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall
not be construed as part of this Agreement or to limit or otherwise affect the meaning
hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Agreement as of the
day and year first above written.

Attest:

WOODWARD GOVERNOR COMPANY 

By: 

Title: President and CEO 

EXECUTIVE  

20 

</EX-10.11>

<EX-21>
 4
 c10357exv21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES

exv21 

Exhibit 21 
Woodward Governor Company 
Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Baker Electrical Products, Inc. 
Delaware, USA

Woodward FST, Inc. 
Delaware, USA

Woodward Controls, Inc. 
Delaware, USA

Woodward International, Inc. 
Delaware, USA

Woodward (Tianjin) Controls Company Limited 
Tianjin, China

Woodward Governor de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 
Mexico City, Mexico

Woodward Governor France S.A.R.L. 
Venissieux, France

Woodward Governor Germany GmbH 
Aken, Germany

Woodward Governor GmbH 
Lucerne, Switzerland

Woodward Governor India LTD. 
New Delhi, India

Woodward Governor Nederland B.V. 
Hoofddorp, The Netherlands

Woodward Governor (Japan) Ltd. 
Tomisato, Japan

Woodward Governor Poland Sp.Zo.o 
Krakow, Poland

Woodward Governor (Quebec) Inc. 
Quebec, Canada

Woodward Governor (Reguladores) Limitada 
Sao Paulo, Brazil

Woodward Governor Company Leonhard-Reglerbau GmbH 
Stuttgart, Germany

Woodward Controls (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 
Suzhou, China

Woodward Controls International Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 
Shanghai, China

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 c10357exv23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23 

Exhibit 23 
Woodward Governor Company 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We hereby consent to incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Numbers
333-10409, 333-66422, 333-82302, 333-112521, and 333-133640) of Woodward Governor Company of our
report dated November 29, 2006 relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedule,
management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chicago, Illinois 
November 30, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.(I)>
 6
 c10357exv31wxiy.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF THOMAS A. GENDRON

exv31wxiy 

Exhibit 31(i) 
Woodward Governor Company 
Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) certification

CERTIFICATION

I, Thomas A. Gendron, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K for the year
ended September 30, 2006, of Woodward Governor Company; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))for the registrant and we have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be
designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over
financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls
and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have
disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: November 30, 2006

/s/ THOMAS A. GENDRON

Thomas A. Gendron 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

A signed original of this written statement required by Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form
within the electronic version of this written statement required by Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), has
been provided to Woodward and will be retained by Woodward and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-31.(I)>

<EX-31.(II)>
 7
 c10357exv31wxiiy.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF ROBERT F. WEBER

exv31wxiiy 

Exhibit 31(ii) 
Woodward Governor Company 
Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) certification

CERTIFICATION

I, Robert F. Weber, Jr., certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K for the year
ended September 30, 2006, of Woodward Governor Company; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))for the registrant and we have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be
designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over
financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls
and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have
disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: November 30, 2006

/s/ Robert F. Weber Jr.

Robert F. Weber Jr. 

Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 

A signed original of this written statement required by Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form
within the electronic version of this written statement required by Rule 13a-14(a) /15d-14(a), has
been provided to Woodward and will be retained by Woodward and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-31.(II)>

<EX-32.(I)>
 8
 c10357exv32wxiy.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS

exv32wxiy 

Exhibit 32(i) 
Woodward Governor Company 
Section 1350 certifications

We hereby certify that the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006, of
Woodward Governor Company, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in the annual report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Woodward
Governor Company.

Date:

November 30, 2006

November 30, 2006 

/s/ Thomas A. Gendron

Thomas A. Gendron

/s/ Robert F. Weber, Jr.

Robert F. Weber, Jr.

President and Chief Executive Officer

Chief Financial
Officer and Treasurer 

A signed original of this written statement required by 18 U.S.C. 1350, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form
within the electronic version of this written statement required by 18 U.S.C. 1350, has been
provided to Woodward and will be retained by Woodward and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.(I)>

