<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061115_10-K_edgar_data_355356_0001193125-06-235910_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>674517</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>170261</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>410147</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>35</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>2</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-06-235910.hdr.sgml : 20061115
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061115124926
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-06-235910
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		3
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060731
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061115
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061115

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			IMPERIAL PETROLEUM INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000355356
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS [1381]
		IRS NUMBER:				953386019
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NV
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0731

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-09923
		FILM NUMBER:		061218931

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 N.W. 2ND. STREET
		STREET 2:		SUITE 312
		CITY:			EVANSVILLE
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			47708-1242
		BUSINESS PHONE:		812-867-1433

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 N.W. 2ND. STREET
		STREET 2:		SUITE 312
		CITY:			EVANSVILLE
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			47708-1242

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 KSu6ALrxBBXP5wAbsnJu5DxWrzfNZWGgu7XSgyOyOgsdmgDcb1zJR3q4nTzEwXvp
 HIk1lXI3l4ywxg7ApkW7og==

 0001193125-06-235910.txt : 20061115

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

     SECURITIES EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington D.C. 20549             FORM 10-K             (Mark One)    
     For the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006        
     For the transition period from                 to
                      Commission file number 000-09923             IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.
       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)             

Nevada   
     
   95-3386019    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of       incorporation or organization)    
     
     (IRS Employer       identification No.)     
     329 Main Street, Suite 801        Evansville, IN 47708        (Zip Code)        Registrant s telephone number, including area code (812) 867-1433             Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(b) of the Act: None.        Securities registered pursuant to Section 13(g) of the Act: Common Stock. $0.006 par
value per share        (Title of class)            Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act.    Yes           No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes           No           Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes         No             Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of the Regulation K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained to the best of the Registrant s knowledge in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.      .
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See
definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.      Large accelerated
filer           Accelerated filer           Non-Accelerated filer           Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.):    Yes           No           On July 31, 2006, there were 11,241,126 shares of
the Registrant s common stock issued and outstanding. The aggregate market value of the Registrant s voting stock held by non-affiliates is $6,009,378. See Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Stock and Related Stockholder
Matters.      Documents Incorporated by Reference: NONE        

Table of Contents  

IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.      FORM 10-K      FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 2006      TABLE OF CONTENTS       

Page    

PART I     

2   

ITEM 1.   

Business.    
      
  2   

Definitions    
      
  2   

The Company    
      
  3   

Historical Background    
      
  3   

Change of Control    
      
  4   

Business Strategy    
      
  7   

ITEM 1A.   

Risk Factors.   
      
  10   

ITEM 2.   

Description of Properties   
      
  16   

Oil and Natural Gas Development, Major Properties    
      
  16   

Principal Exploration and Development Projects: Mining Ventures    
      
  18   

United States Mines    
      
  18   

Competition    
      
  19   

Government Contracts    
      
  19   

Regulation    
      
  20   

Title to Properties    
      
  20   

Operational Hazards and Insurance    
      
  20   

Employees    
      
  21   

ITEM 3.   

Legal Proceedings.   
      
  21   

ITEM 4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.   
      
  21   

PART II    
      
  22   

ITEM 5.   

Market For Registrant s Common Stock; and Related Stockholder Matters.   
      
  22   

ITEM 6.   

Selected Financial Data.   
      
  22   

ITEM 7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of the Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   
      
  22   

Results of Operations    
      
  22   

Capital Resources and Liquidity    
      
  24   

Seasonality    
      
  26   

Inflation and Prices    
      
  26   

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements    
      
  26   

Contractual Obligations    
      
  26   

Long-Term Debt    
      
  26   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk.   
      
  27   

Commodity Risk    
      
  27   

Interest Rate Risk    
      
  27   

ITEM 8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   
      
  27   

ITEM 9.   

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.   
      
  27   

ITEM 9A.   

Controls and Procedures.   
      
  27   

Changes in Internal Controls    
      
  28   

ITEM 9B.   

Other Information.   
      
  28   

PART III    
      
  28   

ITEM 10.   

Directors and Executive Officers of Registrant.   
      
  28   

Directors and Executive Officers    
      
  28   

Biographical Information    
      
  28   

Section 16(a) Reporting Deficiencies    
      
  29   

ITEM 11.   

Executive Compensation.   
      
  29   

ITEM 12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.   
      
  30   

ITEM 13.   

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.   
      
  31   

ITEM 14.   

Principal Accountant Fees and Services.   
      
  31   

PART IV    
      
  32   

ITEM 15.   

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.    
      
  32   

SIGNATURES    
      
  34   

Table of Contents  

    CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS       In the interest of providing the Company s stockholders and potential investors with certain information regarding the Company s future plans
and operations, certain statements set forth in this Form 10-K relate to management s future plans and objectives. Such statements are  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933,
as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended. Although any forward looking statements contained in this Form 10-K or otherwise expressed on behalf of the Company are, to the knowledge and in the judgment of the officers
and directors of the Company, expected to prove to come true and to come to pass, management is not able to predict the future with absolute certainty. Forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties which may cause the
Company s actual performance and financial results in future periods to differ materially from any projection, estimate or forecasted result. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of commodity prices, changes in
interest rates and capital market conditions, competition, risks inherent in the Company s operations, the inexact nature of interpretation of seismic and other geological, geophysical, petro-physical and geo-chemical data, the imprecise nature
of estimating reserves, events that deprive the Company of the services of its Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and largest shareholder, and such other risks and uncertainties as described from time to time in the Company s
periodic reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly stockholders and potential investors are cautioned that certain events or circumstances could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected,
estimated or predicted. The Company does not intend to update forward-looking statements. You should refer to and carefully review the information in future documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.         
   1   

Table of Contents  

PART I        
  ITEM 1.    Business.           
  Definitions       As used in this Form 10-K, the following terms shall have the following meanings.        Base Metals   refers to a family of metallic elements, including copper, lead and zinc.        Bbl   means barrel.        Bcf   means billion cubic feet.        Bcfe   means billion cubic feet equivalent.        BOE   means equivalent barrels of oil.        Company ,  unless the context requires otherwise, means Imperial Petroleum, Inc., a Nevada corporation ( Imperial ) and its consolidated subsidiaries. Ridgepointe Mining Company, a Delaware
corporation ( Ridgepointe ), I.B. Energy, Inc., an Oklahoma corporation ( I.B. Energy ), Premier Operating Company, a Texas corporation ( Premier ), LaTex Resources International, a Delaware corporation
( LRI ), Phoenix Metals, Inc., a Texas corporation ( Phoenix ). LRI and Phoenix were acquired effective April 30, 1997. The operations of LRI ceased in 1997 with the expiration of its remaining foreign activities. Phoenix
has conducted limited activities since 1997 as Imperial Environmental Company, although it has not officially changed its name. Eighty-percent control of SilaQuartz was acquired effective November 23, 1998 as an investment. The Company acquired
90% control of Oil City Petroleum, Inc. ( Oil City ), an Oklahoma corporation effective August 31, 1998 as an investment and sold its interest effective November 28, 2000. The Company owns approximately 7.6 % of the common
stock of Warrior Resources, Inc., ( Warrior ) an Oklahoma corporation, and carries its ownership under as an asset acquisition.        Grade   refers to the metal or mineral content of rock, ore or drill or other samples. With respect to precious metals, grade is generally expressed as troy ounces per ton of rock.        Gross   refers to the total leasehold acres or wells in which the Company has a working interest.        MBbls   means thousand barrels.        MBOE   means thousands equivalent barrels of oil.        Mcf   means thousand cubic feet.   
    Mcfe   means thousand cubic feet equivalent.        Mineable   refers to that portion of a mineral deposit from which it is economically feasible to extract ore.        MMBbls   means million barrels.        MMcf   means million cubic feet.
       Mmcfe   means million cubic feet equivalent.        Net   refers to gross leasehold acres or wells multiplied by the percentage working interest owned by the Company.         
   2   

Table of Contents  

     Net production   means production that is owned by the Company less royalties and
production due others.        Net Smelter Royalty   is a royalty based on the actual sale price received for the subject metal
less the cost of smelting and/or refining the material at an offsite refinery or smelter along with off-site transportation costs.        Oil   includes crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.        Patented Mining Claim   is a
mining claim, usually comprising about 20 acres, to which the US Government has conveyed title to the owner.        Proved developed
reserves   are those reserves which are expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.        Proved reserves   are estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known
reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.        Proved undeveloped reserves   are those reserves which are
expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.        Unpatented Mining Claim   is a mining claim which has been staked or marked out in accordance with federal and state mining laws to acquire the exclusive rights to explore for and exploit the minerals
which may occur on such lands. The title to the property has not been conveyed to the holder of an unpatented mining claim.      Unless
otherwise indicated herein, natural gas volumes are stated at the legal pressure base of the state or area in which the reserves are located and at 60 degrees Fahrenheit. Natural gas equivalents are determined using the ratio of six Mcf of natural
gas to one Bbl of crude oil       
  The Company       Imperial Petroleum, Inc., a Nevada corporation ( the Company ), is a diversified energy,
and mineral mining company headquartered in Evansville, Indiana. The Company has historically been engaged in the production and exploration of crude oil and natural gas in Oklahoma and Texas and had diversified its business activities to include
mineral mining, with a particular emphasis on gold mining. The Company re-focused its efforts in the oil and natural gas business with the acquisitions of assets from Warrior and Hillside Oil   Gas LLC ( Hillside ) in 2004 and is
seeking to sell or develop through partnerships or joint ventures, its mining assets.      At July 31, 2006, the Company operated 173 oil
and gas wells in Texas, New Mexico, Louisiana and Mississippi and owned an interest in an additional approximately 280 wells operated by others. Net daily production from the Company s oil and gas properties was approximately 55 Bopd and 540
Mcfpd in July 2006. The Company s estimated net proven oil and gas reserves as of July 31, 2006 were 1,004 MBO and 16,733 MMCFG. (The Company was under agreement at year-end to sell a substantial portion of its proved reserves, which would
result in remaining reserves after the sale of 378 MBO and 2,756 MMCF.) Under its agreement with ATLCC, Inc. ( ATLCC ), the Company is a non-operating owner in the Duke Gold Mine in Utah, although no significant operations occurred during
the fiscal year.       
  Historical Background       The Company was incorporated on January 16, 1981 and is the surviving member of a
merger between itself, Imperial Petroleum, Inc., a Utah corporation incorporated on June 4, 1979 ( Imperial-Utah ), and Calico Exploration Corp., a Utah corporation incorporated on September 27, 1979 ( Calico ). The
Company was reorganized under a Reorganization Agreement and Plan and Article of Merger dated August 31, 1981 resulting in the Company being domiciled in Nevada.         
   3   

Table of Contents  

   On August 11, 1982, Petro Minerals Technology, Inc. ( Petro ), a 94% -owned subsidiary of
Commercial Technology Inc. ( Comtec ) acquired 58% of the Company s common stock. Petro assigned to the Company its interests in two producing oil and gas properties in consideration for 5,000,000 shares of previously authorized but
unissued shares of common stock of the Company and for a $500,000 line of credit to develop these properties. Petro has since undergone a corporate reorganization and is now known as Petro Imperial Corporation. On August 1, 1988 in an
assumption of assets and liabilities agreement, 58% of the Company s common stock was acquired from Petro by Glauber Management Co., a Texas corporation, ( Glauber Management ), a 100% owned subsidiary of Glauber Valve Co., Inc., a
Nebraska corporation ( Glauber Valve ).       
  Change of Control       Pursuant to an Agreement to Exchange Stock and Plan of Reorganization dated August 27,
1993 (the  Stock Exchange Agreement ), as amended by that certain First Amendment to Agreement to Exchange Stock and Plan of Reorganization dated as of August 27, 1993, (the  First Amendment ), between the Company, Glauber
Management, Glauber Valve, Jeffrey T. Wilson ( Wilson ), James G. Borem ( Borem ) and those persons listed on Exhibit A attached to the Stock Exchange Agreement and First Amendment (the  Ridgepointe Stockholders ). The
Ridgepointe Stockholders agreed to exchange (the  Ridgepointe Exchange Transaction ) a total of 12,560,730 shares of the common stock of Ridgepointe, representing 100% of the issued and outstanding common stock of Ridgepointe, for a total
of 12,560,730 newly issued shares of the Company s common stock, representing 59.59% of the Company s resulting issued and outstanding common stock. Under the terms of the Stock Exchange Agreement, (i) Wilson exchanged 5,200,000
shares of Ridgepointe common stock for 5,200,000 shares of the Company s common stock representing 24.67% of the Company s issued and outstanding common stock, (ii) Borem exchanged 1,500,000 shares of Ridgepointe common stock for
1,500,000 shares of the Company s common stock representing 7.12% of the Company s issued and outstanding common stock, and (iii) the remaining Ridgepointe Stockholders in the aggregate exchanged 5,860,730 shares of Ridgepointe common
stock for 5,860,730 of the Company s issued and outstanding common stock, representing, in the aggregate, 27.81% of the Company s issued and outstanding common stock. The one-for-one ratio of the number of shares of the Company s
common stock exchanged for each share of Ridgepointe common stock was determined through arms length negotiations between the Company, Wilson and Borem.      The Ridgepointe Exchange Transaction was closed on August 27, 1993. As a result, Ridgepointe is now a wholly, owned subsidiary of the Company. At the time of acquisition, Ridgepointe was engaged in the
development of a copper ore mining operation in Yavapai County, Arizona and, through its wholly owned subsidiary, I.B. Energy, in the exploration for and production of oil and gas in the Mid-continent and Gulf Coast regions of the United States.
     In connection with the closing of the Ridgepointe Exchange Transaction, each member of the Board of Directors of the Company resigned and
Wilson, Borem and Dewitt C. Shreve ( Shreve ) were elected Directors of the Company. In addition, each officer of the Company resigned and the Company s new Board of Directors elected Wilson as Chairman of the Board, President and
Chief Executive Officer, Borem as Vice President and Cynthia A. Helms as Secretary of the Company. Ms. Helms subsequently resigned and Kathryn H. Shepherd was elected Secretary. Mr. Borem, Mr. Shreve and Ms. Shepherd subsequently
resigned and Mr. Malcolm W. Henley and Mrs. Stacey D. Smethers were elected to the Board. The Board of Directors further authorized the move of the Company s principal executive offices from Dallas, Texas to its current
offices in Evansville, Indiana.      As a condition to closing the Ridgepointe Exchange Transaction, the Company received and canceled
7,232,500 shares of the Company s common stock from the Company s former partner, Glauber Management, and 100,000 shares of the common stock of Tech-Electro Technologies, Inc from an affiliate of Glauber Management and Glauber Valve. In
addition, pursuant to the terms of the First Amendment, Glauber Management or Glauber Valve, or their affiliates, were to transfer to the Company 75,000 shares of common stock of Wexford Technology, Inc. (formerly Chelsea Street Financial Holding
Corp.) no later than October 31, 1993, which such transfer subsequently occurred.      On August 15, 2001, Mr. Malcolm W.
Henley and Mrs. Stacey D. Smethers resigned their positions as directors of the Company to pursue other interests. Their vacancies have been filled with Mrs. Annalee C. Wilson and Mr. Aaron M. Wilson, both family
members of the Company s President and Chairman, until new directors are elected at the next shareholder s meeting.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

   The Company entered into and closed the acquisition of 29,484,572 shares of the common stock of Warrior
Resources, Inc. (formerly Comanche Energy, Inc.), representing approximately 30.8% of the issued and outstanding shares of Warrior on February 13, 2002 in connection with an Exchange Agreement (see  Exchange Agreement  included
herein) between the Company and the management of Warrior, Messers. Luther Henderson and John Bailey. In connection with the Exchange Agreement, the Company issued 2,266,457 shares of its restricted common stock to Mr. Henderson, representing
12.9 % of the issued and outstanding shares of Registrant in exchange for 22,664,572 shares of the common stock of Warrior and 682,000 shares of its restricted common stock to Mr. John Bailey, representing 3.9 % of the issued and
outstanding shares of the Company in exchange for 6,820,000 shares of the common stock of Warrior. Mr. Bailey and Mr. Henderson resigned as officers and directors of Warrior and Mr. Jeffrey Wilson, president of the Company, was
appointed president and sole director of Warrior. Simultaneously with the closing of the Exchange Agreement with Messrs. Henderson and Bailey and the change of control of Warrior, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, subject to
certain conditions, to offer to acquire the remaining issued and outstanding capital stock of Warrior through a subsequent offering to be registered with the Securities   Exchange Commission. The terms of the proposed exchange of shares
with the remaining shareholders of Warrior was on the basis of one share of Imperial common stock in exchange for ten shares of Warrior common stock. Completion of the Agreement and Plan of Merger was subject to a number of conditions, including the
completion of audited financials for Warrior, approval of the Warrior stockholders, the filing and effectiveness of a registration statement by Registrant for the shares to be offered, the satisfactory completion of due diligence and other customary
closing conditions. Due to breaches of the agreements by the former management of Warrior, the Company terminated the proposed merger in August 2002. As a result of the termination of the merger agreement, the Company had the right to receive
$200,000 or an equivalent value in shares of Warrior valued at $0.02 per share.      On July 15, 2003, the Company and Warrior signed an
Agreement wherein the Company would acquire the assets and certain liabilities of Warrior and its subsidiaries in exchange for payment or assumption of the Warrior senior bank debt in the approximate amount of $3.65 million; (2) extinguishment
of the note payable from Warrior to the Company in the amount of $1.7 million; (3) assumption of certain trade vendor liabilities in the approximate amount of $0.58 million and the issuance to Warrior of 2 million shares of the
Company s common stock. Closing of the transaction was subject to, among other things, approval of Warrior s shareholders, which was received on August 29, 2003. The Company closed the Warrior asset acquisition in January 2004. (See
Form 8-K filed January 29, 2004.)      In April 2003, the Company agreed to acquire certain oil and natural gas interests owned by
Renovared Resources, Inc. ( Renovared ) located in Kentucky for $30,000. The properties comprise interests in approximately 44 wells and a pipeline and gathering system located in the New Albany Shale Gas play. The Company completed the
Renovared acquisition in December 2004.      In May 2003, the Company acquired approximately 54% control of the stock of Powder River in an
Exchange Agreement with the former management and control shareholders of Powder River. (See Form 8-K dated May 2003.) The Company issued a total of 2.65 million shares of its restricted common stock and a note payable in the amount of $200,000
in the transaction. As a result of the Exchange Transaction, Powder River became a consolidated subsidiary of the Company. Powder River owns some 7,000 net acres of leases in the Powder River Basin coalbed methane gas play in Wyoming. In October
2003, the Company entered into a letter of understanding and a subsequent stock sale agreement to sell 23,885,000 shares of the common stock of Powder River of the 25,385,000 shares it presently owns. Under the terms of the sale, the Company
received $175,000 in cash (less broker s fees of 10%); a secured note in the amount of $47,884.47; and a 12.5% carried working interest in the development of the leases owned by Powder River. The purchaser is required to purchase the
convertible notes of Powder River in the approximate amount of $315,000 and to commit a minimum of $750,000 to the development of the leases owned by Powder River. The Powder River sale was closed December 17, 2003. (See Form 8-K filed
December 29, 2003 and amended Form 8-K filed February 23, 2004 with financial information.)      On July 7, 2003 the Company
agreed to acquire the assets of Hillside. The transaction was closed on January 16, 2004. Under the terms of the agreement and amendments thereto, the Company acquired the oil and gas         
   5   

Table of Contents  

   properties of Hillside for (1) the payment of its senior debt of approximately $4.6 million; (2) the assumption
of an equipment note payable of $0.3 million; (3) the payment of certain obligations of Hillside at closing of $168,000; (4) the assumption of approximately $348,000 in accounts payable of Hillside and (5) issuance of a note payable
to Hillside in the amount of $324,000 and secured by 1 million shares of the Company s common stock. Hillside operated some 113 wells in Texas, New Mexico and Louisiana and as a result of the transaction, operations were assumed by the
Company. (See Form 8-K filed January 29, 2004.)      In October 2003 the Company sold 2,000,000 shares of restricted common stock to RAB
Special Situations LP for $200,000 and a common stock purchase warrant in the amount of 2,000,000 shares exercisable at $0.12 per share. Demand rights were granted in connection with the issuance. The term of the warrant was one year. The warrant
was subsequently exercised in October 2004. The proceeds of the sale were used to fund the ongoing expense of the acquisition effort of the Company and for working capital purposes.      In October 2003 the Company retired the note payable of $200,000 which had resulted from the acquisition of Powder River with the issuance of 2,000,000
shares of restricted common stock and a common stock purchase warrant in the amount of 2,000,000 shares at an exercise price of $0.14 per share. Demand rights were granted with the issuance. The term of the warrant was one year and expired without
being exercised.      On January 16, 2004 the Company completed the above-mentioned acquisitions of the assets of Hillside and Warrior for
a total consideration of approximately $12.6 million including broker and financing fees. As a result of the closing, the Company incurred long term debt in the amount of approximately $11.0 million, including approximately $0.25 million in working
capital and $0.6 million in capital available for workovers. The total debt facility is an $18.0 million revolving loan and is based upon a periodic evaluation of the Company s reserves by the lender. (See Form 8-K dated January 29, 2004.)
(Refer to Capital Resources and Liquidity below for more details about the terms of the debt financing.)      The Company completed the
acquisition of a 16% non-operated working interest in the Coquille Bay Field of south Louisiana in May 2004 from Royal-T Oil Company ( Royal-T ) for $800,000 which was funded out of additional borrowings from the Company s revolving
line of credit. The properties are located in Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana. Subsequent to year end July 31, 2004, the Company acquired the remaining interests owned by Royal-T and became the operator of the project. The Company s interest
in the project increased to a 22% working interest, however as a result of certain non-consenting partners, the Company presently carries 50% of the capital investment. Natural gas production from the project began on one well in February 2005. The
Company established a total of six producing completions prior to damage caused by hurricane Katrina. Production rates were approximately 75 Bopd and 800 mcfpd immediately prior to the storm. Coquille Bay was shut in after hurricane Katrina awaiting
repairs to the Company s platform and facilities as well as the platform operated by Martin Marks which delivers the Company s gas to market. As of July 31, 2006, the Company was finalizing the repairs and the tie-in of an additional
5 completions and expects production to average approximately 200 Bopd and 1,500 Mcfpd when production resumes after rental compressor repairs are completed. Additional workover operations will be conducted after the field production is stabilized.
     The Company completed the purchase of the rights to 31 wells and associated leases in Guadalupe County, Texas for the development of
proved behind pipe reserves of approximately 300,000 bbls from Caltex Operating Company and Apache Energy in June 2004. The proposed formation is the Pecan Gap at 1900 feet and has been logged and cored in most of the wells on the leases. The
Company issued a total of 1.375 million shares of its restricted common stock in connection with the acquisition and closing fees. The Company has not completed any workovers on the wells to date.      On October 14, 2004 the Company signed a Merger Agreement with United Heritage Corporation ( UHCP ) wherein the Company would merge with
and become a wholly-owned subsidiary of UHPC on the basis of 1 share of UHCP common stock for each 3 shares of IPTM common stock. The Company and UHPC extended the original time to complete the merger through May 2005. The Merger Agreement was
subsequently terminated by the Company in August 2005.      In November 2004, the Company completed the change of control of Warrior to
Universal Wireline Equipment LLC, a company based in Tulsa, OK. The Company retained 5 million shares of its previously owned         
   6   

Table of Contents  

   Warrior common stock in connection with the change of control and received 720,000 shares of Imperial common stock which
was previously held by Warrior. With the change of control, the Company sold certain rights to its Duke Gold Mine and received an additional 5 million shares of Warrior common stock and retained a 5% net smelter royalty in any proceeds from
mining and processing of the Duke Mine claims in the future. Subsequent to closing, Warrior advised the Company that it would be unable to fulfill the obligations relating to the Duke Mine acquisition and the Company received a re-assignment of the
mining claims and retained the shares of Warrior stock as liquidated damages. The result of the failed transaction was that the Company reduced its ownership of Warrior to 7.6% of its common stock. The Company subsequently completed a new joint
venture arrangement of its Duke Gold Mine in April 2006 with ATLCC, wherein the company acquired a 5% equity interest in ATLCC and retained a 5% net smelter royalty. No operations have been conducted by ATLCC through July 31, 2006.   
  The Company engaged Macquarie Securities in November 2005 to assist the Company in completing a sale of assets or otherwise to re-structure its senior
debt. In connection with that effort, the Company signed a definitive agreement with Whittier Energy Company ( Whittier ) and Premier Natural Resources, LLC ( Premier Natural ) to sell certain oil and gas assets comprising of 69%
of the Company s total assets for $15.4 million. The sale was subject to normal and customary due diligence and title verification by Whittier and Premier Natural and also subject to the approval of the Company s shareholders, which was
obtained on August 1, 2006 at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Phase I closing of the sale was completed on August 9, 2006 and as a result the Company retired approximately $11.3 million in senior debt and paid an additional $0.7
million in payables from the proceeds. Phase II closing of the sale was completed on November 9, 2006, and as a result retired approximately $1.7 million in senior debt with an additional $0.15 million in proceeds used to pay trade payables.
The Phase II closing remains subject to normal and customary due diligence or title verification.      The Company signed a Forbearance
Agreement (and several amendments thereto) with its senior lender in connection with its plan to re-structure its senior debt. The Company incurred additional fees as a result of these amendments in the amount of $750,000 due to its senior lender as
a result of these agreements. The Company continues to operate under the terms of its Forbearance Agreement and amendments thereto.       
  Business Strategy       The Company s management has focused its efforts entirely on the acquisition and
exploitation of oil and gas assets. With over 30 years experience in evaluating, acquiring and exploiting oil and gas reserves, the Company s senior management believes that quality acquisition and exploitation opportunities continue to exist
today. The Company has begun acquiring a significant leasehold position in and around its pipeline and gathering system in the New Albany shale play in Kentucky to begin a development program in that area to further its belief that natural gas
prices and reserves will continue to remain in high demand.          Oil and Natural Gas Reserves          The following table is a summary, as of July 31, 2006, of the proved reserves of oil and natural gas net to the Company s interest based upon
estimates prepared by the Company. These estimates are based on assumptions the Company believes are reasonable regarding production costs, future production rates and declines. These estimates are based upon constant prices and costs as of
July 31, 2006, of $71.25/Bbl and $7.25/Mmbtu adjusted for differentials. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in the preparation of estimates of reserves, including many factors beyond the Company s control. The accuracy of any such
estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. It can be expected as the Company conducts additional evaluation, drilling and testing with respect to its properties that these
estimates will be adjusted and could be revised. Estimates have been filed with the Energy Information Agency as part of its annual survey of oil and gas operators for 2005 based on the Company s reserves as of July 31, 2005 in addition to
reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). The Company has no reserves outside the United States.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

   As of July 31, 2006       

    Note: Included in the reserve estimates are 8 MBO and 45 MMCF net to the Company s interest for approximately
280 properties included in various states. Projections for these properties are based on net revenues received on a monthly basis and allocated to oil and gas sales and reserves. As a result, actual volumes of oil and gas produced in the future may
vary significantly for these properties.          Reserves by State          The following table illustrates the Company s reserve summaries by State as of July 31, 2006:      As of July 31, 2006       
    Note: Other reserves included in this table reflect estimated reserves attributable to approximately 280
properties as noted above.       Acreage  - The following table shows the developed and undeveloped leasehold acreage held by the Company
as of July 31, 2006:       
     Productive Wells  - The following table summarizes the productive oil and gas wells in which
the Company had an interest at July 31, 2006:       
       
   8   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  A  gross acre  or a  gross well  is an acre or well in which a working interest is owned by the Company and the number of gross acres or gross wells is the total
number of acres or wells in which a working interest is owned by the Company.     

(2)  
  A  net acre  or a  net well  exists when the sum of the Company s fractional ownership interests in gross acres or gross wells equals one. The number of net
acres or net wells is the sum of the fractional interests owned in gross acres or gross wells, and does not include any royalty, overriding royalty or reversionary interests.         Production, Price and Cost Data  - The following table summarizes certain information relating to the production, price and cost data for the
Company for the fiscal years ended, July 31, 2006, 2005, 2004.      Year Ended July 31, 2006       

(1)  
  Includes expense workovers.     

(2)  
  Gas production is converted to barrel equivalents at the rate of six Mcf per barrel representing the estimated relative energy content of natural gas to oil.

(3)  
  Historical costs and expenses differ from projections included in the reserve estimates presented above as a result of remedial costs associated with repairs of the Hillside
acquisition properties and repairs to the Coquille Bay platform included in historical costs and considered to be non-recurring expenses. To the extent that continued remedial costs are incurred in the future, the economic limit of the producing
properties will be affected and will reduce our reserve estimates substantially.            Drilling Activity   
      The following table illustrates the results of the drilling activity during each of the three most recent fiscal years:       
       
   9   

Table of Contents  

       Mining          The availability of a market for the Company s mineral and metal production will be influenced by the proximity of the Company s operations to
refiners and smelting plants. In general the Company will sell its mined product to local refineries and smelters. The price received for such products will be dependent upon the Company s ability to provide primary separation to ensure
fineness or quality. The price of gold has been relatively stable in recent years reflecting a period of relatively low inflation. Copper prices have generally been more volatile, in part due to increased demand of developing economies for
electrical wire and other copper related products.      Changes in the price of gold and copper will significantly affect the Company s
future cash flows and the value of its mineral properties. The Company is unable to predict whether prices for these commodities will increase, decrease or remain constant in future periods.      The Company does not currently classify any of its mineral properties as having reserves as that term is defined by the SEC.       
  ITEM 1A.      Risk Factors   .          In addition to the other information set
forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors when evaluating the Company. An investment in the Company is subject to risks inherent in our business. The trading price of the shares of the Company is affected
by the performance of our business relative to, among other things, competition, market conditions and general economic and industry conditions. The value of an investment in the Company may decrease, resulting in a loss. The risk factors listed
below are not all inclusive.         We have a history of losses and currently operate under the terms of a Forbearance Agreement with our senior
lender.        We have had a history of net losses for at least the past three years and we currently operate under the terms of a
Forbearance Agreement and amendments thereto with our senior lender. If we are not successful in re-structuring our senior debt, our senior lender may foreclose on our properties.        Natural gas and oil prices fluctuate widely, and low prices would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and growth.        Our revenues, profitability and future growth will depend significantly on natural gas and crude oil prices. Prices received also will affect the amount
of future cash flow available for capital expenditures and repayment of indebtedness and will affect our ability to raise additional capital. Lower prices may also affect the amount of natural gas and oil that we can economically produce. Factors
that can cause price fluctuations include:       

The domestic and foreign supply of natural gas and oil.         

Overall economic conditions.         

The level of consumer product demand.         

Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters.         

The price and availability of competitive fuels such as heating oil and coal.         

Political conditions in the Middle East and other natural gas and oil producing regions.         

The level of LNG imports.         

Domestic and foreign governmental regulations.           
   10   

Table of Contents  

Potential price controls and special taxes.          We depend on the
services of our chairman, chief executive officer and chief financial officer, and implementation of our business plan could be seriously harmed if we lost his services.        We depend heavily on the services of Jeffrey T. Wilson, our chairman, chief executive officer, and chief financial officer. We do not have an employment
agreement with Mr. Wilson, and we do not presently have a  key person  life insurance policy on Mr. Wilson to offset our losses in the event of Mr. Wilson s death.        Our ability to successfully execute our business plan is dependent on our ability to obtain adequate financing.        Our business plan, which includes participation in 3-D seismic shoots, lease acquisitions, the drilling of exploration prospects and producing property
acquisitions, has required and will require substantial capital expenditures. We may require additional financing to fund our planned growth. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on the results of our operations and the status of
various capital and industry markets at the time we seek such capital. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In particular, our credit facility imposes limits on our
ability to borrow under the facility based on adjustments to the value of our hydrocarbon reserves, and our credit facility limits our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the event additional capital resources are unavailable, we may be
required to curtail our exploration and development activities or be forced to sell some of our assets in an untimely fashion or on less than favorable terms.        Natural gas and oil reserves are depleting assets and the failure to replace our reserves would adversely affect our production and cash flows.        Our future natural gas and oil production depends on our success in finding or acquiring new reserves. If we fail to replace reserves, our level of production and cash flows would be adversely impacted. Production
from natural gas and oil properties decline as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our total proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced unless we conduct other successful exploration and
development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. Further, the majority of our reserves are proved developed producing. Accordingly, we do not have significant opportunities to increase our production from our
existing proved reserves. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of natural gas and oil reserves would be impaired to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital
become limited or unavailable. We may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves. If we are not successful, our future production and revenues will be adversely affected.        Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions
could materially affect the quantities and present values of our reserves.        The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves
is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the
estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report.      In order to prepare these estimates, our independent third party
petroleum engineer must project production rates and timing of development expenditures as well as analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process
also requires economic assumptions relating to matters such as natural gas and oil prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of natural gas and oil reserves are inherently
imprecise.      Actual future production, natural gas and oil prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and
quantities of recoverable natural gas and oil reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any         
   11   

Table of Contents  

   significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and pre-tax net present value of reserves shown in
this report. In addition, estimates of our proved reserves may be adjusted to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing natural gas and oil prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Some of
the producing wells included in our reserve report have produced for a relatively short period of time. Because some of our reserve estimates are not based on a lengthy production history and are calculated using volumetric analysis, these estimates
are less reliable than estimates based on a more lengthy production history.      You should not assume that the pre-tax net present value of
our proved reserves prepared in accordance with SEC guidelines referred to in this report is the current market value of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves. We base the pre-tax net present value of future net cash flows from our proved
reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices, costs, taxes and the volume of produced reserves may differ materially from those used in the pre-tax net present value estimate.        Exploration is a high risk activity, and our participation in drilling activities may not be successful.        Our future success will largely depend on the success of our exploration drilling program. Participation in exploration drilling activities involves
numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs will be discovered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or
canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including:       

Unexpected drilling conditions.         

Blowouts, fires or explosions with resultant injury, death or environmental damage.         

Pressure or irregularities in formations.         

Equipment failures or accidents.         

Tropical storms, hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions.         

Compliance with governmental requirements and laws, present and future.         

Shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment.        Even when properly used and interpreted, 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the
interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or economically producible. Poor results from our drilling activities would materially and adversely affect our future cash flows and results of operations.      In addition, as a  successful efforts  company, we choose to account for unsuccessful exploration efforts (the drilling of  dry
holes ) and seismic costs as a current expense of operations, which immediately impacts our earnings. Significant expensed exploration charges in any period would materially adversely affect our earnings for that period and cause our earnings
to be volatile from period to period.        The natural gas and oil business involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses.
       The natural gas and oil business involves a variety of operating risks, including:       

Blowouts, fires and explosions.         

Surface cratering.         

Uncontrollable flows of underground natural gas, oil or formation water.           
   12   

Table of Contents  

Natural disasters.         

Pipe and cement failures.         

Casing collapses.         

Stuck drilling and service tools.         

Abnormal pressure formations.         

Environmental hazards such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures or discharges of toxic gases.        If any of these events occur, we could incur substantial losses as a result of:       

Injury or loss of life.         

Severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources or equipment.         

Pollution and other environmental damage.         

Clean-up responsibilities.         

Regulatory investigations and penalties.         

Suspension of our operations or repairs necessary to resume operations.        Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks peculiar to the marine environment, such as capsizing and collisions. In addition, offshore operations, and in some instances, operations along the Gulf
Coast, are subject to damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce the
funds available for exploration, development or leasehold acquisitions, or result in loss of properties.      If we were to experience any of
these problems, it could affect well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities, any one of which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance
against some, but not all, of these risks. Losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable,
and particular types of coverage may not be available. An event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.        Not hedging our production may result in losses.        Due to the significant volatility in natural gas prices and the potential risk of significant hedging losses if NYMEX natural gas prices spike on the date options settle, our production is not currently hedged. By not hedging our
production, we may be more adversely affected by declines in natural gas and oil prices than our competitors who engage in hedging arrangements.        Our
ability to market our natural gas and oil may be impaired by capacity constraints on the gathering systems and pipelines that transport our natural gas and oil.        All of our natural gas and oil is transported through gathering systems and pipelines, which we do not own. Transportation capacity on gathering systems and pipelines is occasionally limited and at times unavailable
due to repairs or improvements being made to these facilities or due to capacity being utilized by other natural gas or oil         
   13   

Table of Contents  

   shippers that may have priority transportation agreements. If the gathering systems or our transportation capacity is
materially restricted or is unavailable in the future, our ability to market our natural gas or oil could be impaired and cash flow from the affected properties could be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
and results of operations.        We have no assurance of title to our leased interests.        Our practice in acquiring exploration leases or undivided interests in natural gas and oil leases is to not incur the expense of retaining title lawyers
to examine the title to the mineral interest prior to executing the lease. Instead, we rely upon the judgment of third party landmen to perform the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental, county or parish clerk s office
before leasing a specific mineral interest. This practice is widely followed in the industry. Prior to the drilling of an exploration well the operator of the well will typically obtain a preliminary title review of the drillsite lease and/or
spacing unit within which the proposed well is to be drilled to identify any obvious deficiencies in title to the well and, if there are deficiencies, to identify measures necessary to cure those defects to the extent reasonably possible. We have no
assurance, however, that any such deficiencies have been cured by the operator of any such wells. It does happen, from time to time, that the examination made by title lawyers reveals that the lease or leases are invalid, having been purchased in
error from a person who is not the rightful owner of the mineral interest desired. In these circumstances, we may not be able to proceed with our exploration and development of the lease site or may incur costs to remedy a defect. It may also
happen, from time to time, that the operator may elect to proceed with a well despite defects to the title identified in the preliminary title opinion.        Competition in the natural gas and oil industry is intense, and we are smaller and have a more limited operating history than most of our competitors.        We compete with a broad range of natural gas and oil companies in our exploration and property acquisition activities. We also compete for the equipment
and labor required to operate and to develop these properties. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources than we do. These competitors may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive natural gas and oil
properties. Further, they may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than we can. Our ability to explore for natural gas and oil and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend on our
ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. In addition, most of our competitors have been operating for a much longer time than we have and have substantially larger
staffs. We may not be able to compete effectively with these companies or in such a highly competitive environment.        We are subject to complex laws
and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.        Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the operation and maintenance of our facilities and the discharge of materials into the environment. Failure to comply with such rules and regulations could result in
substantial penalties and have an adverse effect on us. These laws and regulations may:       

Require that we obtain permits before commencing drilling.         

Restrict the substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities.         

Limit or prohibit drilling activities on protected areas, such as wetlands or wilderness areas.         

Require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells.        Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for personal injury and clean-up costs and other environmental and property damages, as well as
administrative, civil and criminal penalties. We maintain only         
   14   

Table of Contents  

   limited insurance coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages. Accordingly, we may be subject to liability,
or we may be required to cease production from properties in the event of environmental damages. These laws and regulations have been changed frequently in the past. In general, these changes have imposed more stringent requirements that increase
operating costs or require capital expenditures in order to remain in compliance. It is also possible that unanticipated factual developments could cause us to make environmental expenditures that are significantly different from those we currently
expect. Existing laws and regulations could be changed and any such changes could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.        We cannot control the activities on properties we do not operate.        Other companies currently operate properties in
which we have an interest. As a result, we have a limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties or their associated costs. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our
limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could materially adversely affect the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of our drilling and development
activities on properties operated by others therefore depend upon a number of factors that are outside of our control, including:       

Timing and amount of capital expenditures.         

The operator s expertise and financial resources.         

Approval of other participants in drilling wells.         

Selection of technology.          Acquisition prospects are difficult to
assess and may pose additional risks to our operations.        We expect to evaluate and, where appropriate, pursue acquisition
opportunities on terms our management considers favorable. In particular, we expect to pursue acquisitions that have the potential to increase our domestic natural gas and oil reserves. The successful acquisition of natural gas and oil properties
requires an assessment of:       

Recoverable reserves.         

Exploration potential.         

Future natural gas and oil prices.         

Operating costs.         

Potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors.         

Permitting and other environmental authorizations required for our operations.        In connection with such an assessment, we would expect to perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Nonetheless, the resulting conclusions are
necessarily inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain, and such an assessment may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their
merits and deficiencies. Inspections may not always be performed on every platform or well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken.      Future acquisitions could pose additional risks to our operations and financial results, including:       

Problems integrating the purchased operations, personnel or technologies.           
   15   

Table of Contents  

Unanticipated costs.         

Diversion of resources and management attention from our exploration business.         

Entry into regions or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience.         

Potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations.          We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock.        We have never declared or
paid a dividend on our common stock and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. Our current plan is to retain any future earnings for funding growth, and, therefore, holders of our common stock will not be able to receive a return on their
investment unless they sell their shares.        Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Nevada law could adversely effect
a potential acquisition by third parties that may ultimately be in the financial interests of our stockholders.        Our certificate of
incorporation, bylaws and the Nevada General Corporation Law contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals. These provisions could have the effect of inhibiting fluctuations in the market price of our common stock that could
result from actual or rumored takeover attempts, preventing changes in our management or limiting the price that investors may be willing to pay for shares of common stock. These provisions, among other things, authorize the board of directors to:

Designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock.         

Limit the personal liability of directors.         

Limit the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders.         

Prohibit stockholder action by written consent.         

Establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election of the board of directors and for proposing matters to be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings.

Require us to indemnify directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.         

Impose restrictions on business combinations with some interested parties.          Our common stock is thinly traded.        Imperial has approximately 11 million shares of common stock outstanding,
held by approximately 606 holders of record. Directors and officers own or have voting control over approximately 2.2 million shares. Since our common stock is thinly traded, the purchase or sale of relatively small common stock positions may
result in disproportionately large increases or decreases in the price of our common stock.       
  ITEM 2.      Description of Properties             
  Oil and Natural Gas Development, Major Properties         Bovina Field        The Bovina field covers some 1,600 acres of leasehold in Warren County, Mississippi. The Company operates three wells. The Cauthen 6-15#1 well produces
intermittently but loads up with salt and water. A workover is planned to rework the well higher. The Bovina Unit 7-2#1 well is producing approximately 15 Bopd on         
   16   

Table of Contents  

   hydraulic pump with associated gas at about 100 mcfpd. The Bovina Unit 7-2#2 is shut in capable of producing 20 Bopd and
200 Bwpd from the Rodessa sand, however, it will require a pumping unit and saltwater disposal facilities to produce economically. The Bovina field has upside potential through uphole recompletions into the Hosston and other shallower formations and
in the drilling of undeveloped locations. The Cauthen well will be worked over to isolate the Cotton Valley  D  sand, additionally perforate the  B  zone and perform a small acid stimulation job. The Company expects a rate of
about 250 mcfpd. The well has a tendency to plug off with salt from time to time and requires cleanout. Several additional zones are available uphole. Subsequent to year-end the Company sold its interest in this field.        Bethany/Carthage Fields        The
Bethany and Carthage fields produce from the Hosston, Travis Peak and Pettit formations at depths ranging from 11,000 feet to 7,000 feet. The Company operates 6 producing wells and two wells awaiting the installation of additional facilities before
production will commence. Current production is approximately 0.5 Mcfpd. These wells have additional behind pipe reserves as well as proven undeveloped locations to reduce the current spacing pattern within this area. Recently the Company completed
a farmout of the Moss Unit acreage and seven new Cotton Valley wells have been drilled and completed, each producing approximately 1 MMcfpd. The Company has also completed a farmout of its Mittie Horton and Bell acreage and the three new wells were
successfully drilled on the farmout acreage. The Company completed a workover of the Stroud #1 which produces at rates of 30 Mcfpd and 5 Bopd. The Company ran rods and a downhole pump on the Mittie Horton however the well continues to have problems
producing. Additional behind pipe potential exists in the well. The Company will be installing a separator on the Burnett #1 ahead of a frac job that is planned and expects pre-frac production of 100 Mcfpd. Most of the wells have additional behind
pipe zones available for future recompletions. In addition with the recent activity in the area and given the Company s significant acreage position, several additional locations have been included as proved undeveloped locations, although the
Company believes that a significantly greater number of drilling locations are available than included in the reserve reports as the spacing of the Cotton Valley fields in this area is further reduced to 40 acres. Subsequent to year-end the Company
sold its interest in this field, except for the Ned Dean #1 unit and certain farmout operations being conducted by Chesapeake.        Coquille Bay Field        The Company assumed operations of the Coquille Bay field in January 2005 from Royal-T. The field
is located in Plaqumines Parish, Louisiana in approximately 4-6 feet of water. Seventeen wells produce oil and natural gas at depths ranging from 8,000 ft. to 11,000 feet. The Company manages the field under an Operating Agreement with the State of
Louisiana and owns a 22% working interest and a 21.4% net revenue interest. Prior to hurricane Katrina, the Company had the field producing at approximately 75 Bopd and 800 mcfpd from six completions, however production has been plagued by
continuous repair and maintenance problems and over-sized equipment at the central facility and by the lack of sufficient gas for gas lifting of the oil wells. The Company had completed work on two additional wells that had sufficient gas flow rates
to supply the necessary gas lift gas immediately prior to shutting down for the hurricane. While the Company s facility did not sustain any major damage, the gas sales line is tied to a platform operated by others that was heavily damaged in
the storm and as a result the Company experienced considerable delays awaiting repairs to the other operator s platform before it began repairing its platform facilities and began production at its facility. Subsequent to year-end, the Company
began producing oil and gas from the Coquille Bay field and expects to continually increase the level of production to approximately 200 Bopd and 1,500 mcfpd. Coquille Bay field has numerous workover opportunities available to increase production
and reserves.        New Mexico        The Company acquired approximately 20 shallow wells producing in the Atoka-Glorietta-Yeso Pool in Chaves County, New Mexico at depths of approximately 3,500 feet. Most of the wells have experienced sand fill and had
either rod parts or tubing leaks due to neglect. The Company returned these wells to production and is producing approximately 90 Bopd and 430 Mcfpd. The Company is evaluating the area for infill drilling to further reduce well spacing. Subsequent
to year-end the Company sold its interest in this field.         
   17   

Table of Contents  

     Howard Glascock Field        Most of the Texas production acquired from Hillside is from the Howard Glascock field in the vicinity of Midland, Texas. The properties with the greatest
upside potential are the Dora Roberts Lease which had previously begun water flood operations that were discontinued during a period of low oil prices. The Company is evaluating a renewed waterflood effort on the property. The Company is actively
returning the wells in this field to production. Most of the wells produce at depths of 3,000 feet or less from the San Andres and Glorietta formations. Subsequent to year-end the Company sold its interest in this field.        Kentucky Properties        The
Kentucky properties are located in two fields in western Kentucky, the Shrewsbury field, in Grayson County and the Claymour field, in Todd County. Both properties required new leases be obtained, and that effort has been underway by the Company. At
present the Company has acquired a total of approximately 3,500 acres in the Claymour area. The Claymour field has approximately 29 wells tied into the 15 mile pipeline and gathering system that was purchased with the properties. The leases had
lapsed and the Company has obtained approximately 3,500 acres of new leases. The primary producing zone is the New Albany Shale zone at 1,600 feet. The Company plans rework the existing vertical wells for production and to drill new horizontal wells
to determine the benefit that may be gained in production rates by horizontal drilling. We believe that significant economic benefit can be obtained by horizontal drilling in the New Albany Shale in this area. In the Shrewsbury field, the Company
has not completed any new leasing yet. No proved reserves are included in the reserve report for these properties at this time.       
  Principal Exploration and Development Projects: Mining Ventures       The Company considers its mining activities
to be in the exploration stage at this time.       
  United States Mines         UFO Mine        Until the formation of the Joint Venture, subsequent to year-end 1998, the Company owned the UFO Mine and Rumico Millsite located in Yavapai County,
Arizona comprising some 400 acres of unpatented mining claims. The principal resource discovered to date is copper. Working capital limitations had limited the Company s exploration of the mining property, in favor of other projects. As a
result, the Company entered into a Mining Joint Venture in November 1997. The property, was subject to an acquisition note with the former owners requiring the payment of $1,000,000. The note had been extended several times by the holder and the
mining claims served as collateral for the note. The Company negotiated a Mining Joint Venture with Mr. Zane Pasma in November 1997 that retired the note payable and secured the return of 1,000,000 shares of the Company s common stock
(pre-split) for the assignment of the Company s interest in the Lone Star claims and a contribution of the Company s interest in the Congress Mill Site facility. The Company retained a 5% carried interest in the Mining Joint Venture
through the initial $6.0 million spent by the Joint Venture to develop the property. Mr. Pasma manages the Mining Joint Venture and began initial exploration activities in 1998. The results of initial recovery tests for platinum group metals
were disappointing and the Joint Venture Manager suspended exploration activities to seek an industry partner or other financing for the development of the copper and gold. The Company does not expect any activity during the current fiscal year.
       Duke Mine        The
focus of the Company s exploration activity related to the Duke Mine during fiscal 2004 has been to seek a partner to finance or joint venture the operations on the Duke Mine located in San Juan County, Utah. The property comprises some 2,240
acres of unpatented mining claims in the Dry Valley Gold Claim area. Access to the property is excellent via blacktop roads adjacent to the claims. The property is located some 20 miles south of Moab, Utah. The primary mineralization at the Duke
Mine occurs as microscopic gold located in very fine grain placer material. Sieve analysis of the sand indicates that about 71% of the material are larger than 200 mesh.         
   18   

Table of Contents  

   Recovery tests have been conducted on a grid sampling pattern throughout the claim area utilizing the Cosmos
Concentrator. Because of the nature of the placer material and in particular its size, mining and process recovery activities will be significantly simplified, thereby reducing costs. The Company has conducted additional recovery tests utilizing
other equipment in addition to the Cosmos Concentrator. Water is readily available, however, drilling is required.      The Company constructed
a pilot plant in 1998 at the Duke Mine and moved portable Cosmos Concentrator on site. The Company spent approximately $185,000 to conduct pilot recovery tests under a small miner s permit exemption. Pilot plant results were encouraging despite
mechanical start-up problems. Upon completion of its pilot tests, the Company suspended any further exploration until construction of a full-scale modular facility can be completed. Subject to capital availability, permitting and construction
schedules, the cost to construct a full scale facility is approximately $8.0 million to achieve a capacity of 10,000 tons per day. Presently there are 5 other companies active in the development of claims in the vicinity of the Duke Mine. The
Company entered into discussions with a mining company to provide the capital and manage the development of the mine and completed an agreement in connection with the change of control of Warrior in which the Company would retain a 5% net smelter
royalty. The mining company was unable to complete its capital efforts in relation to the Duke Mine and as a result the Company re-assumed control of the claims and the mine. Subsequently the Company entered into a new agreement with ATLCC in which
it retained a 5% net smelter royalty and a 5% equity stake.       
  Competition       There are many companies and individuals engaged in the oil and gas business. Some are very large
and well established with substantial capabilities and long earnings records. The Company is at a competitive disadvantage with some other firms and individuals in acquiring and disposing of oil and gas properties, since they have greater financial
resources and larger technical staffs than the Company. In addition, in recent years a number of new small companies have been formed which have objectives similar to those of the Company and which present substantial competition to the Company.
     A number of factors, beyond the Company s control and the effect of which cannot be accurately predicted, affect the production and
marketing of oil and gas and the profitability of the Company. These factors include crude oil imports, actions by foreign oil producing nations, the availability of adequate pipeline and other transportation facilities, the marketing of competitive
fuels and other matters affecting the availability of ready market, such as fluctuating supply and demand.      The Company currently sells a
substantial portion of its oil and gas production on  spot  market or short term contracts. During the year ended July 31, 2006, the Company sold approximately 16.3%, 20.6% and 24.2% of its oil and gas to Plains Marketing, Duke Energy
and Navajo Refining, respectively. The Company does not believe that the loss of any of these purchasers would significantly impair its operation.      The acquisition of mining claims prospective for precious metals or other minerals or oil and natural gas leases is subject to intense competition from a large number of companies and individuals. The ability of the Company to acquire
additional leases or additional mining claims could be curtailed severely as a result of this competition.      The principal methods of
competition in the industry for the acquisition of mineral leases is the payment of bonus payments at the time of acquisition of leases, delay rentals, advance royalties, the use of differential royalty rates, the amount of annual rental payments
and stipulations requiring exploration and production commitments by the lessee. Companies with far greater financial resources, existing staff and labor forces, equipment for exploration and mining, and vast experience will be in a better position
than the Company to compete for such leases.       
  Government Contracts       No portion of the Company s business is subject to re-negotiation of profits or
termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the Government. The Company has assumed operations of the Coquille Bay facility which is subject to an Operating Agreement negotiated by the Company s predecessor with the State of
Louisiana.         
   19   

Table of Contents  

Regulation       Federal, state and local authorities extensively regulate the oil and natural gas and mining
industry. Legislation affecting these industries is under constant review for amendment or expansion. Numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, have issued rules and regulations binding on the oil and natural gas and mining industry
and their individual members some of which carry substantial penalties for the failure to comply. The regulatory burden on these industries increases their cost of doing business and consequently, affects their profitability. Inasmuch as such laws
and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted, the Company is unable to predict the future cost or impact of complying with such regulations.      The Company s operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the
environment. Permits are required for various of the Company operations, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal by issuing authorities. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with their
regulations and violations are subject to fines, injunctions or both. It is possible that increasingly strict requirements will be imposed by environmental laws and enforcement policies hereunder. The Company is also subject to laws and regulations
concerning occupational safety and health. It is not anticipated that the Company will be required in the near future to expend amounts that are material in the aggregate to the Company s overall operations by reason of environmental or
occupational safety and health laws and regulations but inasmuch as such laws and regulations are frequently changed, the Company is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance.       
  Title to Properties         Oil and Natural Gas        In general, limited or only old title opinions exist on the leases, however, title surveys have been conducted by landmen and title lawyers in the normal
course of the Company s acquisition and financing efforts. The Company has reviewed the validity and recording of the leases at the county courthouses in which the properties are located and believes that it holds valid title to its properties.
       Mining        The
Company does not have title opinions on its mining claims or leases and, therefore, has not identified potential adverse claimants nor has it quantified the risk that any adverse claims may successfully contest all or a portion of its title to the
claims. Furthermore, the validity of all unpatented mining claims is dependent upon inherent uncertainties such as the sufficiency of the discovery of minerals, proper posting and marking of boundaries, and possible conflicts with other claims not
determinable from descriptions of record. In the absence of a discovery of valuable minerals, a mining claim is open to location by others unless the claimant is in actual possession of and diligently working the claim (pedis possessio) No assurance
can be given with respect to unpatented mining claims in the exploratory stage that a discovery of a valuable mineral deposit will be made.      To maintain ownership of the possessory title created by an unpatented mining claim against subsequent locators, the locator or his successor in interest must pay an annual fee of $200 per claim.       
  Operational Hazards and Insurance       The operations of the Company are subject to all risks inherent in the
exploration for and operation of oil and natural gas properties, wells and facilities and mines and mining equipment, including such natural hazards as blowouts, cratering and fires, which could result in damage or injury to, or destruction of,
drilling rigs and equipment, mines, producing facilities or other property or could result in personal injury, loss of life or pollution of the environment. In addition, weather related hazards, such as tornados and hurricanes may pose a threat to
certain of the Company s wells and facilities from time-to-time. Any such event could result in substantial expense to the Company which could have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition of the Company to the extent it is not
fully insured against such risk. The Company carries insurance against certain of these risks but, in accordance with standard industry practices, the Company is not fully insured for all risks either because such insurance is         
   20   

Table of Contents  

   unavailable or because the Company elects not to obtain insurance coverage because of cost, although such operational
risks and hazards may to some extent be minimized. No combination of experience, knowledge and scientific evaluation can eliminate the risk of investment or assure a profit to any company engaged in oil and gas or mining operations.       
  Employees       The Company employs one person in its Evansville, Indiana office whose functions are associated
with management, operations and accounting. The Company uses independent contractors to assist in its land and accounting functions and to supervise its oil, gas and mining business.       
  ITEM 3.      Legal Proceedings   .          Imperial Petroleum, Inc. versus Ravello
Capital LLC       The Company filed suit in Federal District Court in Tulsa County, Oklahoma against Ravello Capital LLC
( Ravello ) on November 20, 2000. The suit alleged breach of contract and sought to have the contract declared partially performed in the amount of $74,800 and sought relief in the amount of $488,390 for the unpaid consideration and
punitive damages and attorneys fees. The Company received a judgment award against Ravello in the amount of $488,390 and subsequently collected and credited the judgment in the amount of $85,638.02 as a result of the re-issuance of certain of its
shares in Warrior, held by Ravello in escrow and not released. The Company does not believe it will be successful in collecting the balance of the judgment against Ravello.      The Company, through its predecessor in interest, was named a defendant in a class action lawsuit seeking damages by the plaintiffs for inadequate
development of the Moss Unit located in Panola County, Texas. The plaintiffs sought unspecified damages. The lawsuit was settled subsequent to year-end through the execution of a farmout agreement with a company nominated by the plaintiffs to drill
additional wells in the Unit. The Company retained an over-riding royalty interest in the farmout wells to be drilled and all rights to its existing proration unit surrounding the Moss well, as well as $132,500 as consideration for executing the
farmout. Seven additional wells have subsequently been drilled in the Unit and are producing.      The Company, through its predecessor in
interest, was named with others in a breach of its duties to act as a reasonably prudent operator in the development of the Crump Gas Unit in Panola County, Texas. The Crump Unit encompasses the Company s Mittie Horton well. The Plaintiff is
seeking a cancellation of the lease for failure to produce hydrocarbons in paying quantities or alternatively to establish a lien against the leasehold to secure payment of plaintiff s damages resulting from the Company s failure to
develop the property. The Company executed a farmout agreement with Burke Royalty ( Burke ), a co-defendant in the suit, regarding the acreage in question. Burke negotiated a settlement under which the Plaintiffs would arrange to drill
additional wells. The Company has a 12.5% carried working interest in the first well drilled in the unit and the right to participate for a 12.5% working interest in subsequent wells.      The Company received a letter from an attorney representing Powder River in reference to certain claims PRVB believes it has against the Company and its
management in reference to the sale of PRVB and the warranties and representations provided by the Company. No lawsuit was filed and the Company successfully completed a mutual release of claims with PRVB and settled the issues.       
  ITEM 4.      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   .         The
Company, subsequent to year end, on August 1, 2006 held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders. At that meeting, the shareholders approved the following corporate actions: (1) approved the election of five Board members, including Jeffrey T.
Wilson, Annalee C. Wilson, Aaron M. Wilson, Malcolm W. Henley and James M. Clements; (2) approved the appointment of Briscoe Burke   Grigsby LP as the Company s auditors for 2006; (3) approved a four for one (4 for 1) reverse
split of the Company s common stock; (4) approved an increase in capitalization of the Company s common stock from 50,000,000 shares to 150,000,000 shares; and (5) approved the sale of 151 wells to Whittier and Premier Natural.
(See Proxy dated July 11, 2006.)         
   21   

Table of Contents  

PART II        
  ITEM 5.      Market For Registrant s Common Stock; and Related Stockholder Matters   .         The Company s common stock is traded in the over-the-counter market. From 1984 to 1997 trading had been so limited and sporadic that it was not possible to obtain a continuing quarterly history of high and low
bid quotations. Stock information is received from registered securities dealers and reflects inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. The Company was advised that
trading in its shares resumed in September 1997 and the Company s stock was quoted at approximately $0.25 per share in sporadic trading. At July 31, 2006, the approximate bid price for the Company s common stock was $0. 08 per
share and the approximate asked price was $0.17 per share.      No dividends have ever been paid by the Company on its common stock and it is
not anticipated that dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future.      There are approximately 610 holders of record of the Company s
common stock.       
  ITEM 6.      Selected Financial Data     .        
     
  ITEM 7.      Management s Discussion and Analysis of the Financial Condition and Results of Operations     .        
  Results of Operations       The factors which most significantly affect the Company s results of operations
are (i) the sale prices of crude oil and natural gas, (ii) the level of oil and gas sales, (iii) the level of lease operating expenses, and (iv) the level of and interest rates on borrowings. The Company will need to rely on the
initiation operations on its mining ventures and its oil and natural gas operations to generate cash flow and future profits. The same factors listed above will apply to the sale of minerals and metals mined by the Company as well as oil and natural
gas produced by the Company. As the Company initiates production on its mining properties, results of operations will be affected by: (i) commodity prices for copper and gold, (ii) the quantity and quality of the ores recovered and
processed, and (iii) the level of operating expenses associated with the mining operations.      Crude oil and natural gas prices
increased significantly during fiscal 2006 with New York Mercantile Exchange ( NYMEX ) prices quoted at approximately $71.25/Bbl for oil and $7.50 per Mmbtu for natural gas at July 31, 2006. Since that time prices have continued to
remain high. At fiscal year-end 2006, the forward  strip  price for oil and natural gas as posted by the NYMEX representing the average of the next 24 months was approximately $64.95/Bbl and $8.35/Mmbtu. The impact of continued high prices
will be positive on cash flow and the exploitation of existing properties owned by the Company, however, continued high prices will reduce the availability of quality acquisitions and could change the Company s future growth strategy. At the
present time the Company believes it has a substantial inventory of quality development opportunities to sustain its growth strategy without additional acquisitions. The Company expects oil and gas prices to continue to fluctuate and to be
influenced by Asian economies and potential disruptions in supplies, in particular events in the Middle East and North Korea.         
   22   

Table of Contents  

   Prices for gold had remained relatively stable during the past several years and had generally reflected
the relatively low inflation rates predominate in the economies of the industrialized nations. Recently, gold prices began a significant upward price adjustment, which may reflect a shift from the traditional dependence upon gold as a financial
hedge against inflation. Current spot prices for gold are $578.00 per ounce and are expected to continue to remain at or near those levels. The Company does not expect to realize any substantial increase in the price of gold in the future.
     Copper prices have fluctuated dramatically since the Company s acquisition of its copper property with prices ranging from a low of
about $0.65 per pound in August 1993 to a high of $3.40 per pound today. Wide variations in copper prices have resulted from the increased demand for electrical wire and copper related products as a result of the continued high growth rate of the
economies of the industrialized nations and as a result of periodic reductions in the availability of scrap copper for recycling. Continued fluctuations in the spot price for copper are expected to result from variations in the availability of scrap
copper and the continued strong demand from emerging nations.        Year ended July 31, 2006 compared to year ended July 31,
2005        Total revenues for the Company for the year ended July 31, 2006 were $3,435,006 compared to $2,963,651 for the prior year
and represent a 16% increase. The increase in revenues is a result of increased commodity prices during the year. Production volumes decreased by 10% primarily due to losses associated with hurricanes Rita and Katrina in Louisiana. As a result of
the sale of assets, the Company expects its oil and gas revenues to decrease significantly during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 but should rebound as production is increased at Coquille Bay and North Louisiana in the late first quarter.
     Total operating expenses for the year ended July 31, 2006 were $3,062,128 compared to $2,889,868 for the year earlier. Operating
expenses increased due to increased activity at Coquille Bay. General and administrative costs ( G A ) for the year ended July 31, 2006 were $989,514 compared to $577,651 for the year ended July 31, 2005 and reflect
additional expenses associated with the engagement of Macquarie Securities as the Company s investment banker in the sale of assets. G A costs will continue to increase in the first quarter due to costs associated with the Proxy
solicitation related to the Company s August 1, 2006 Annual meeting of the Shareholders and the resulting sale of assets. Interest costs increased to $2,792,962 for the year ended July 31, 2006 compared to $2,163,120 for the prior
year as a result of the increase in rates associated with the Company credit facility and increased borrowings. Interest costs will decrease with the repayment of approximately $13.0 million in debt as a result of the asset sale.      The Company incurred an after tax loss of $3,426,724 ($0.31 per share) for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006 compared to a loss of $1,450,822
($0.26 per share) for the prior year. The largest component of the net loss is interest expense, representing 82%. Depreciation, depletion and amortization costs increased from a total of $1,495,074 last year to $1,788,350 in the current year as a
result of additional fees associated with the Company s Forbearance Agreement and amendments thereto. The Company expects to continue to incur losses until its operations in Coquille Bay are producing.        Year ended July 31, 2005 compared to year ended July 31, 2004        Total revenues for the Company for the year ended July 31, 2005 were $2,963,651 compared to $1,931,593 for the year ended July 31, 2004 and
represent a 53% increase. The increase in revenues reflects a full year of revenue from the acquisition of the Warrior and Hillside properties that closed in January 2004. Despite increases in prices, production volumes were not consistent
throughout the year due to downtime associated with wells acquired from Hillside and the history of poor maintenance operations. The Company finally completed the necessary repairs the Hillside wells, particularly in New Mexico and has been
experiencing more consistent production rates. The Coquille Bay field began producing modestly in February 2005 and was plagued by mechanical and weather related problems during the remainder of the fiscal year. Immediately prior to hurricane
Katrina the Company had completed well work that would alleviate the chronic lack of gas volumes necessary for gas lift. Although the field facilities operated by the Company suffered limited damage from the hurricane, the gas sales point operated
by Martin Marks was damaged extensively and as a result the production will likely remain shut in until mid-November 2005. Once the Coquille Bay field is back on production, revenues should increase dramatically.         
   23   

Table of Contents  

   Total operating expenses (excluding depreciation, depletion and amortization) for the year ended
July 31, 2005 increased to $2,889,868 compared to $1,707,915 for the prior year. Direct oil and gas lease operating expenses were $1,429,587 compared to $791,741 for the prior year and reflect the operation of the properties for a full year in
2005 and increases associated with the Coquille Bay operations located on water. General and administrative expenses included in the above totals were $400,498 for the year ended July 31, 2004 compared to $577,651 for the year ended
July 31, 2005 and reflect the operations of the Company after the completion of the sale of Powder River and the completion of the financing of the acquisitions in January 2004. The Company expects its general and administrative costs to remain
at about the same levels as 2005 and reflect the normal operating levels of the Company s operations.      The Company incurred an after
tax loss of $2,695,812 ($0.26 per share) for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2005 compared to a loss of $1,450,822 ($0.16 per share) for the prior year. Interest expenses for the most recent fiscal year were $2,163,180 compared to $1,106,151 for
the prior year end and reflect a full year of interest associated with the acquisitions. Depreciation, depletion and amortization costs increased from a total of $513,753 last year to $882,630 in the current year. The Company expects to continue to
incur losses during the early development of its oil and gas business.       
  Capital Resources and Liquidity       Because of the closing of the Hillside and Warrior asset acquisitions, the
Company s capital requirements relate primarily to the remedial efforts to return the Hillside wells to production and to workover operations on various Warrior wells to increase production. The Company has a great deal of flexibility in the
timing and amount of these expenditures. Capital expenditures for the most recent year totaled $2,360,327 which was funded from borrowings under the Company s credit facility and out of cash flow generated by the properties.      As a result of the inability of the Company to raise capital for its mining operations, Management decided to terminate all of the Company s mining
lease commitments except the Duke Gold Mine in Utah during fiscal 2000. As a result, the Company is active in only one mine that will require significant capital expenditures. The Company has a wide degree of discretion in the level of capital
expenditures it must devote to the mining project on an annual basis and the timing of its development. The Company has primarily been engaged, in its recent past, in the acquisition and testing of mineral properties to be inventoried for future
development. Because of the relative magnitude of the capital expenditures that may ultimately be required for any single mining venture as operations are achieved, management has pursued a strategy of acquiring properties with significant mineral
potential in an effort to create a mineral property base sufficient to allow the Company to access capital from external sources, either through debt or equity placements. Management decided to seek a partner for the Duke Mine during 2005 and focus
its management resources and limited capital on the oil and natural gas properties acquired from Hillside and Warrior and to focus on additional acquisitions in the oil and gas sector. The Company completed a joint venture arrangement with ATLCC
during the year that, if fulfilled by ATLCC, will eliminate any capital investments from the Company while providing for development of the mine.      As a result of the Hillside and Warrior acquisitions, the Company completed the Revolving Loan, an $18 million revolving financing of which approximately $11 million was required at closing, including approximately $0.25 million in working
capital and $0.6 million in development capital for workovers. The availability under the Revolving Loan is subject to semi-annual evaluations of the Company s oil and gas reserve base as determined by the Lender and is reduced monthly based
upon re-determinations by the Company after taking into effect price changes and net production. As of the closing date of January 16, 2004, the Company had available borrowing capacity of approximately $12 million based upon the current oil
and gas properties acquired from Warrior and Hillside. Under monthly calculations of the Borrowing Base, adjusted for production and prices, the calculated Borrowing Base as of July 31, 2006 was approximately $20.0 million. The Revolving Loan
has a term of 3 years (January 15, 2007) and an interest rate of Prime Rate plus 8% (Interest Rate for July 2006 was 14.25%). The Revolving Loan is subject to the normal and customary financial covenants and is secured by a first mortgage and lien
right to all of the Company s operations and assets. The Company has been operating under a Forbearance Agreement and a Waiver Agreement as amendments to its credit facility since November 2005 as a result of its failure to complete a planned
merger with United Heritage Corporation and its failure to raise at least $5 million in equity. The agreements signed by the Company provided that the Company would complete the sale of certain assets and reduce its debt. The Company signed a
Definitive Purchase and Sales Agreement with Whittier and         
   24   

Table of Contents  

   Premier Natural that was closed subsequent to year-end on August 9, 2006. The proceeds of this initial closing (also
referred to as Phase I) of approximately $12.0 million were used to reduce senior debt by $11.3 million and to pay vendor payables. As of July 31, 2006 the Company was not in compliance with the covenants of the agreements executed by the
Company and its lender in connection with the sale of certain assets by the Company. The Company signed Amendment #4 at the closing of the asset sale to Whittier and Premier Natural subsequent to year end. The Company is in discussions with a new
lender in connection with re-financing of its remaining debt facility and has received a proposed term sheet. A second post closing (also referred to as Phase II) of the asset sale to Whittier and Premier Natural occurred on November 9, 2006,
resulted in approximately $1.85 million in additional proceeds to the Company to be used to further retire its senior debt ($1.7 million) and to reduce vendor payables ($0.15 million). At the request of its senior lender, the Company has postponed
signing the new term sheet until final post closing of Phase II so that a final determination of the Company s debt, including any additional fees incurred, can be provided to the new lender. The Company believes that it will not remain in
compliance with the financial covenants provided under its Amendment #4 to its credit facility signed as a result of closing of the asset sale and will again need to request additional time from its senior lender to complete the final re-structuring
of its credit facility. Failure to receive an extension or failure to complete a re-structuring of its senior debt will result in the Company continuing in default on its Revolving Loan and subject to the remedies provided therein. In connection
with the Revolving Loan, the Company also completed a subordinated financing of approximately $650,000 with a Bank of Oklahoma. The terms of the Subordinated Financing are a term of 4 years from the closing date (January 15, 2004) and an interest
rate of 4% per annum paid in kind and accrued to the loan balance due at maturity. The Company can retire the Subordinated debt only after payment of the Revolving Loan with a discount of 10% of the principal amount if paid on or before
June 30, 2004 and a discount of 5% of the principal amount if paid on or before December 31, 2004.      The timing of expenditures
for the Company s oil and natural gas and mining activities are generally distributed over several months, and as such, the Company anticipates its current working capital will be sufficient to meet its capital expenditures. The Company has no
immediate plans to spend any capital on the Duke Mine during the present fiscal year. If ATLC is unable to perform, the Company believes it will be required to access outside capital either through debt or equity placements or through joint venture
operations with other mining companies to develop the Duke Mine. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in its efforts to locate outside capital and as a result the level of the Company s mining activities may need to be
curtailed, deferred or abandoned entirely.      The level of the Company s capital expenditures will vary in the future depending on
commodity market conditions and upon the level of oil and gas activity achieved by the Company and the success of its remedial workover operations. The Company anticipates that its cash flow will be insufficient to fund its operations at their
current levels and that additional funds or borrowings will be required. Because the timing of acquisitions of additional oil and gas properties is uncertain, additional borrowings will be required to fund new acquisitions and the timing of those
borrowings is uncertain. A potential breach of the conditions of the extension agreement with its senior lender, it will be necessary for the Company to raise equity, either through the issuance of additional shares to new investors or the sale of
certain of its oil and gas properties. The Company is pursuing both alternatives at the present time. The Company has obtained certain unsecured loans from its Chairman and President, Jeffrey T. Wilson, which total in principal approximately
$620,530 as of July 31, 2006. These funds have been used to initiate the Company s oil and gas and mining activities and fund its overhead requirements. Management believes that the Company will not need to borrow additional funds from
these sources in the future, but will need additional credit facilities to fund the Company s ongoing needs.      At July 31, 2006,
the Company had current assets of $671,245 and current liabilities of $23,227,590, which resulted in negative working capital of $22,577,590. The negative working capital position is comprised of the Company s senior and subordinated debt
facility of $21,906,345; trade accounts payable of $2,153,531, of accrued expenses payable of $323,612 consisting primarily of interest and accrued salaries payable to the Company s President, notes payable to the Company s President of
$620,530, and third party notes payable of $157,202. As of July 31, 2006 the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $0.        Oil
and Gas Hedging        The Company s production is currently not hedged.         
   25   

Table of Contents  

Seasonality       The results of operations of the Company are seasonal due to seasonal fluctuations in the market
prices for crude oil and natural gas. Due to these seasonal fluctuations, results of operations for individual quarterly periods may not be indicative of results, which may be realized on an annual basis.       
  Inflation and Prices       The Company s revenues and the value of its oil and natural gas and mining
properties have been and will be affected by changes in the prices for crude oil, natural gas and gold prices. The Company s ability to obtain additional capital on attractive terms is also substantially dependent on the price of these
commodities. Prices for these commodities are subject to significant fluctuations that are beyond the Company s ability to control or predict.       
  Off Balance Sheet Arrangements       None.       
  Contractual Obligations       See above, Capital Resources and Liquidity.       
  Long-Term Debt       (See above, Capital Resources and Liquidity.) The Company has two credit facilities in place
in connection with its oil and gas operations: (a.) an $18,000,000 Revolving Loan with D. B. Zwirn that expires on January 17, 2007 and (b.) a $650,000 subordinated note payable to Bank of Oklahoma that expires on January 15, 2008.
       Revolving Loan        The Company completed the Revolving Loan, an $18 million revolving financing of which approximately $11 million was required at closing, including approximately $0.25 million in working capital and $0.6 million in development capital for
workovers. The availability under the Revolving Loan is subject to semi-annual evaluations of the Company s oil and gas reserve base as determined by the Lender and is reduced monthly based upon re-determinations by the Company after taking
into effect price changes and net production. As of the closing date of January 16, 2004, the Company had available borrowing capacity of approximately $12 million based upon the current oil and gas properties acquired from Warrior and
Hillside. Under monthly calculations of the Borrowing Base, adjusted for production and prices, the calculated Borrowing Base as of July 31, 2006 was approximately $20.0 million. The Revolving Loan has a term of 3 years (January 15, 2007) and
an interest rate of Prime Rate plus 8% (Interest Rate for July 2006 was 14.25%). The Revolving Loan is subject to the normal and customary financial covenants and is secured by a first mortgage and lien right to all of the Company s operations
and assets. The Company has been operating under a Forbearance Agreement and a Waiver Agreement as amendments to its credit facility since November 2005 as a result of its failure to complete a planned merger with United Heritage Corporation and its
failure to raise at least $5 million in equity. The Forbearance Agreement and amendments thereto provided that the Company would, among other things, sell certain assets to reduce its senior debt. The Company completed the sale of assets, subsequent
to year end, with the initial closing on August 8, 2006 and a subsequent post closing on November 9, 2006. The Company currently operates under amendment #4 to its credit facility. As of July 31, 2006, the total amount outstanding
under the Revolving Loan was $19.2 million, including outstanding fees. All of the amount due under the Revolving Loan are classified as current in the Company s financial presentations. As a result of the closing and the post closing of the
sale of assets, the Company s remaining debt under the line of credit is approximately $7.3 million.        Subordinated Debt  
     In connection with the Revolving Loan and the closing of the acquisitions from Hillside and Warrior, the Company completed a subordinated
financing of approximately $650,000 with a Bank of Oklahoma. The terms of         
   26   

Table of Contents  

   the Subordinated Financing are a term of 4 years from the closing date (January 15, 2004) and an interest rate of
4% per annum paid in kind and accrued to the loan balance due at maturity. The Company had the right to retire the Subordinated debt only after payment of the Revolving Loan with a discount of 10% of the principal amount if paid on or before
June 30, 2004 and a discount of 5% of the principal amount if paid on or before December 31, 2004. The current amount outstanding as of July 31, 2006, including accrued interest under the subordinated debt is $710,811.       
  ITEM 7A.      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk     .        
  Commodity Risk       Our major commodity price risk exposure is to the prices received for our natural gas and oil
production. Realized prices for our production are the spot prices applicable to natural gas and crude oil. Prices received for natural gas and oil are volatile and unpredictable and are beyond our control.       
  Interest Rate Risk       We have long-term debt subject to risk of loss associated with movements in interest
rates.       
  ITEM 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   .       Our consolidated financial
statements are included in this report beginning of page F-1.       
  ITEM 9.      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   .         The Company changed auditors from Briscoe Burke   Grigsby, LLP ( Briscoe ) to Weaver   Martin, LLC ( Weaver ) on September 20, 2006. There were no disagreements with the
prior auditors that resulted in the change. Briscoe notified the Company that it had resigned as auditor effective as of September 19, 2006  due to the difficulty and expense in obtaining acceptable liability insurance.  (For
additional information, see Form 8-K filed on October 4, 2006.) Briscoe audited the Company s financial records for the year ended July 31, 2005 and issued an unqualified opinion in connection with the audit. The opinion issued by
Briscoe has not been qualified or modified as to audit certainty, audit scope or accounting principles nor has it included any disclaimer of opinion. The Company s Board of Directors approved the engagement of Weaver as the Company s
auditors for the year ending July 31, 2006.       
  ITEM 9A.      Controls and Procedures   .         In connection with the preparation
of this annual report on Form 10-K/A, our President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of July 31, 2006, pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ). Based upon that evaluation, our President and Chief Executive Officer concluded that as of July 31, 2006, as a result of the changes made by the Company in response to prior
discussions with our auditors regarding our internal control over financial reporting, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or
submit under the Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Security and Exchange Commission s rules and forms; and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the
reports that we file under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including our certifying officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.      Briscoe, the Company s auditors for the year ended July 31, 2005, notified the Audit Committee that a material weakness existed in the
Company s internal controls such that in its belief the accounting personnel of the Company did not possess the necessary skills to achieve accurate financial reporting in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principals nor the
requirements of the Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14. Furthermore, Briscoe advised the Audit Committee that a reportable condition was also noted in the Company s internal controls in regards to segregation of duties and that the Company
should take steps to segregate duties in the         
   27   

Table of Contents  

   accounting function to assist in alleviating these control deficiencies. So as to rectify these material weaknesses, the
Company determined that, as a matter of its regular business practice, it would engage third party accountants to assist the Company in compiling its financial information for all subsequent years until such time as the Company may retain additional
internal accounting staff. The Company immediately engaged a third party accounting firm, Davis, Kinard   Co, P.C., to assist and review its accounting functions and as a result, the prior material weaknesses did not have a significant
impact on the material weakness for the year 2006 period being reported on this Form 10-K.      The Company s Certifying Officers
believe that the engagement of additional accounting expertise to assist in book keeping and the compilation of its financial information will ensure that its accounting processes will be more streamlined and effective. As of the end of the period
covered by this report, the Company s Certifying Officers believe that the steps taken by the Company have remediated any and all material weaknesses in internal controls and in disclosure controls and weaknesses. As of the date of this report
the Company s Certifying Officers believe that the steps taken by the Company have remediated any and all material weaknesses in internal controls and disclosure controls and weaknesses and conclude that in going forward, the disclosure
controls and procedures will be effective.       
  Changes in Internal Controls       The Company changed its system of internal controls in 2005 to include the
review and compilation of its financial information by independent accountants in cooperation with the Company s own internal staff. No additional changes in internal controls were made during 2006. The Company s Certifying Officers
believe that these previous changes to the Company s system of internal control over financial reporting has materially affected, and is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s system of controls over financial reporting in
the future.       
  ITEM 9B.      Other Information   .         None.       
  PART III        
  ITEM 10.      Directors and Executive Officers of Registrant   .          
  Directors and Executive Officers       The following table sets forth certain information regarding the directors,
executive officers and key employees of the Company.       

Name    
      
   Age   
      
     Position     
 
  Jeffrey T. Wilson  
      
  53  
      
    Director, Chairman of the Board,     President and Chief
Executive Officer    
 
  Annalee C. Wilson  
      
  50  
      
  Director   
 
  Aaron M. Wilson  
      
  27  
      
  Director   
 
  Malcolm W. Henley  
      
  54  
      
  Director   
 
  James M. Clements  
      
  44  
      
  Director   
     
  Biographical Information        Jeffrey T. Wilson  has been Director, Chairman of the Board, President and
Chief Executive Officer of the Company since August 1993. Mr. Wilson was a Director, Chairman and President of LaTex Resources, Inc., an         
   28   

Table of Contents  

   affiliate of the Company, and was the founder of its principal operating subsidiary, LaTex Petroleum Corporation. Prior
to his efforts with LaTex, Mr. Wilson was Director and Executive Vice President of Vintage Petroleum, Inc. and was employed by Vintage in various engineering and acquisition assignments from 1983 to 1991. From August 1980 to May 1983
Mr. Wilson was employed by Netherland, Sewell   Associates Inc., a petroleum consulting firm. Mr. Wilson began his career in the oil and gas business in June 1975 with Exxon Company USA in various assignments in the Louisiana and
South Texas areas. Mr. Wilson holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Mechanical Engineering from Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology.       Annalee C. Wilson  has been a Director of the Company since August 2001. Mrs. Wilson is the President of HN Corporation, an affiliate of the Company engaged in the operation of retail franchise outlets in malls selling motivation
and inspiration material developed by Successories, Inc. and others and in the operation of a Christian restaurant and gift shop. Mrs. Wilson has an Associate Degree in Nursing from the University of Evansville.       Aaron M. Wilson  has been a Director of the Company since August 2001. Mr. Wilson is a Vice president of HN Corporation and is the Manager of
the Successories franchise store located at Castleton Square Mall owned by HN Corporation. Mr. Wilson received a dual degree in Business Economics and Political Science from the University of Kentucky in 2002.       Malcolm W. Henley  has been a Director of the Company since August, 2006. Mr. Henley was a former officer of the Company and previously served
as a Director from 1996 through 1999. Mr. Henley has over 25 years of experience in the petroleum industry and has been involved in many varied aspects of the industry. He holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Business Administration from Oklahoma
State University and an Associate Degree in Petroleum Land Technology from Tulsa Junior College.       James M. Clements  has been a
Director of the Company since August, 2006. Mr. Clements has extensive experience in financial planning and securities. He is certified as a financial planner and previously held a broker-dealer license issued by the NASD from 1995-2003. He
holds a Bachelor of Science degree in financial services from San Diego State University.       
  Section 16(a) Reporting Deficiencies       Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires the Company s
directors and officers and persons who own more than 10% of a registered class of the Company s equity securities, to file initial reports of ownership on Form 3 and reports of changes in ownership on Forms 4 and 5 with the SEC and the National
Association of Securities Dealers ( NASD ). Such persons are required by SEC regulation to furnish the company with copies of all Section 16(a) forms they file.      Based upon a review of From 3, 4 and 5 filings made by the Company s officers and directors during the past fiscal year ended July 31, 2006
under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, the Company believes that all requisite filings have been made timely.       
  ITEM 11.      Executive Compensation   .         The table below sets forth, in
summary form, (1) compensation paid to Jeffrey T. Wilson, the Company s Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and (2) other compensation paid to officers and directors of the Company. Except as provided in the
table below, during the three fiscal years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (i) no restricted stock awards were granted, (ii) no stock appreciation or stock options were granted, (iii) no options, stock appreciation rights or
restricted stock awards were exercised, and (iv) except as provided below, no awards under any long term incentive plan were made to any officer or director of the Company.      The Company began accruing salary due to Jeffrey T. Wilson in January 1994. Mr. Wilson agreed to accept 1.0 million warrants exercisable at
$0.25 per share in exchange for the retirement of $808,508 in accrued salaries. Mr. Wilson began receiving payment of his monthly salary in January 2004. As of July 31, 2006 the Company has accrued and unpaid salaries to Mr. Wilson in
the amount of $35,389.10.         
   29   

Table of Contents  

    SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE        
    None of the executive officers listed received prerequisites or other personal benefits that
exceeded the lesser of $50,000 or 10% of the salary and bonus for such officers. Directors are currently not paid for their service to the Company.       
  ITEM 12.      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management   .         As of July 31, 2006, the Company has 11,241,126 issued and outstanding shares of common stock. The following table sets forth, as of July 31, 2006, the number and percentage of shares of common stock of the Company owned
beneficially by (i) each director of the Company, (ii) each executive officer of the Company, (iii) all directors and officers as a group, and (iv) each person known to the Company to own of record or beneficially own more than
5% of the Company s common stock. Except as otherwise listed, the stockholders listed in the table have sole voting and investment power with respect to the shares listed. As of July 31,2006, the Company had approximately 606 holders of
common stock of record.       

30   

Table of Contents  

(4)  
  The mailing address of HN Corporation is 3117 N First Ave., Evansville, IN 47710. Mrs. Annalee Wilson is the President of HN Corporation, Jeffrey T. Wilson is the Vice
President of HN Corporation and Aaron M. Wilson is a Vice President of HN Corporation.     

(6)  
  The address of Taghmen Ventures Ltd. is EFG House, St Julian s Avenue, St Peter Port Guernsey.     

(7)  
  The mailing address of RAB Special Situations LP is C/O Morgan Stanley 25 Cabot Square, 3rd Floor, Canary Wharf, London, E144QA.         
  ITEM 13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   .         Jeffrey T.
Wilson, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company has made unsecured loans to the Company which total $620,530 in principal as of July 31, 2006. Accrued salaries owed to Mr. Wilson total $35,389.10 as of July 31,
2006.      HN Corporation, a private retail company owned by Mr. Wilson and his wife, has made unsecured loans to the Company from
time-to-time which total $0 in principal as of July 31, 2006. Annalee Wilson serves as the President of HN Corporation and owns 66.7% of its common stock, Jeffrey T. Wilson serves as the Vice President and Secretary of HN Corporation and owns
33.3% of its stock and Aaron M. Wilson serves as a Vice President of HN Corporation.       
  ITEM 14.      Principal Accountant Fees and Services   .         The following table
presents the fees for professional audit services rendered by Weaver for the audit of the Company s annual consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006 and for Briscoe, our previous auditors, for the fiscal
year ended July 31, 2005, and fees for other services rendered by each during those periods:       
    Audit fees include fees related to the services rendered in connection with the annual audit of
the Company s consolidated financial statements, the quarterly reviews of the Company s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and the reviews of and other services related to registration statements and other offering memoranda. The audit
fees in 2006 were comparable to those incurred in 2005.      Audit-related fees are for assurance and related services by the principal
accountants that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of the Company s financial statements.      Tax Fees
include (i) tax compliance, (ii) tax advice, (iii) tax planning, and (iv) tax reporting.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

   All Other Fees includes fees for all other services provided by the principal accountants not covered in
the other categories such as litigation support, etc.      All of the services for 2006 and 2005 were performed by the full-time, permanent
employees of Weaver and Briscoe, respectively.      All of the 2006 services described above were approved by the Audit Committee pursuant to
the SEC rule that requires audit committee pre-approval of audit and non-audit services provided by the Company s independent auditors to the extent that rule was applicable during fiscal year 2006. The Audit Committee has considered whether
the provisions of such services, including non-audit services, by Briscoe was compatible with maintaining Briscoe s independence and has concluded that it is. Weaver has not provided any services un-related to the audit during 2006.   
   
  PART IV        
  ITEM 15.      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K   .          

(a)   
   Financial Statements and Schedules         Financial
Statements of Imperial Petroleum, Inc.      Reports of Independent Public Accountants;      Consolidated Balance Sheets as of July 31, 2006 and 2005;      Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004;      Consolidated
Statements of Stockholder Equity for the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004;      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
years ended July 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004;      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      Supplemental Financial Information      Schedule
II - Amounts Receivable from Related Parties. Other Schedules are omitted as they are not required.       

(b)   
   Reports on Form 8-K         The following reports were
filed with the SEC on the dates shown and are included herein by reference:      8/15/05 8-K: Change of Auditors to Briscoe, Burke  
Grigsby LLP      8/31/05 8-K: Termination of Merger Agreement with United Heritage Corporation.      12/7/05 8-K: Amendment #3 to Credit Facility and Forbearance Agreement.      2/24/06 8-K: Waiver Agreement with Senior Lender      5/9/06 8-K: Purchase and Sale Agreement with Whittier
Energy Company and Premier Natural Resources LLC      7/6/06 DEF 14A: Definitive Proxy         
   32   

Table of Contents  

   8/4/06: 8-K: Notice of results of Annual Meeting      8/22/068-K: Closing of sale of assets to Whittier   Premier      10/16/06 Change of auditors to Weaver   Martin LLC.       

(c)   
   Exhibits          

Exhibit       Number    
     
     Description     
 
  3.1  
     
  Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant incorporated herein by reference to exhibit B of the Form 10.   

3.2  
     
  Bylaws of the Registrant incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit B of the Form 10.   

16.1  
     
  Letter re: change in certifying accountant. Included by reference to exhibit of Form 8-K, as filed with the SEC on August 16, 2006.   

31.1  
     
  Certification of Chief Executive Officers as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed herewith.   

32.1  
     
  Certification of president and Chief Financial Officer as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed herewith.   

99  
     
  Additional Exhibits: Not applicable.   
       
   33   

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. Imperial Petroleum, Inc.       

IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.    

Date: November 15, 2006  
     
    /s/ Jeffrey T. Wilson    

Jeffrey T. Wilson, President     and Chief Executive
Officer    
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:       

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     
 
    /s/ Jeffrey T. Wilson   
      
  President and Chief Executive Officer  
     
  November 15, 2006   
 
  Jeffrey T. Wilson  
      
  (Principal Executive Officer) and Director  

34   

Table of Contents  

IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Index to Consolidated Financial Statements       Audited Financial Statements of Imperial Petroleum, Inc.      (See Item 15: Exhibits, Financial Statements and Reports on Form 8-K)       

Page    

Independent Auditors  Reports    
      
  F-1   

Consolidated Financial Statements:  

Consolidated Balance Sheet    
      
  F-3   

Consolidated Statement of Operations    
      
  F-5   

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity    
      
  F-6   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
      
  F-7   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     
      
  F-8   
       
   35   

Table of Contents  

IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORTS        REPORTS OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       Board of Directors      Imperial Petroleum, Inc. and Subsidiaries      Evansville, Indiana      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Imperial Petroleum, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of July 31,
2006, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  deficit, and cash flows for the year then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Imperial Petroleum, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of July 31, 2006, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended, in
conformity with U. S. generally accepted accounting principles.      The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that the
Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company has suffered recurring losses from operations and is dependent upon obtaining debt financing for funds to meet its cash requirements. These
factors raise substantial doubt about the Company s ability to continue as a going concern. Management s plans with regard to these matters are also described in Note 2. The financial statements do no include any adjustments that might
result from the outcome of this uncertainty.      /s/ Weaver   Martin, LLC      Kansas City Missouri      October 27, 2006         
   F-1   

Table of Contents  

    IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORTS        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM       Board of Directors      Imperial Petroleum, Inc. and Subsidiaries      Evansville, Indiana      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Imperial Petroleum, Inc. and
Subsidiaries as of July 31, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for the year then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall consolidated financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Imperial Petroleum, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of July 31, 2005, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity with U. S. generally accepted accounting principles.      /s/ BRISCOE,
BURKE   GRIGSBY LLP      Certified Public Accountants      Tulsa, Oklahoma      November 11, 2005         
   F-2   

Table of Contents  

IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Consolidated Balance Sheet        July 31, 2006 and 2005        
       
   F-3   

Table of Contents  

    IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Consolidated Balance Sheet        July 31, 2006 and 2005        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   
     
   F-4   

Table of Contents  

IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Consolidated Statements of Operations        For the Years Ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   
     
   F-5   

Table of Contents  

IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity        For the Years Ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   
     
   F-6   

Table of Contents  

IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        For the Years Ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   
     
   F-7   

Table of Contents  

IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements        For the Years Ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004        1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES         Organization        Imperial Petroleum, Inc. (the  Company ), a publicly held corporation, was organized under the laws of the state of Nevada.      The Company s principal business consists of oil and gas exploration and production in the United States. The Company, through its wholly owned
subsidiary, Ridgepointe Mining Company is attempting to obtain capital, continue testing, defining and developing mineral reserves on mining claims it owns or operates in the southwestern and western United States. At fiscal year end 2006, the
Company had not begun mining activities.        Reverse Split        On August 1, 2006 stockholders approved a 1 for 4 reverse stock split. All share numbers in these financial statements and footnotes have been retroactively adjusted to account for the reverse split.   
    Basis of Presentation        The consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Ridgepointe Mining Company, Premier Operating Company, I. B. Energy, Inc., LaTex Resources International, Inc., Imperial Environmental Company (formerly
Phoenix Metals, Inc.) and Hoosier Biodiesel Company (formerly Global-Imperial Joint Venture, Inc.). All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.        Use of Estimates        The presentation of
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted U.S. accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.        Cash and Cash Equivalents        For purposes of the statement of cash flows, the Company considers
all highly liquid debt instruments purchased with a maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.        Accounts Receivable     
  Bad debts on receivables are evaluated periodically and charged to expense in the year the receivable is determined uncollectible, therefore, no
allowance for doubtful accounts is included in the financial statements. During 2006, 2005 and 2004 the Company charged off $0, $0, and $0 respectively.        Fair Value of Financial Instruments        Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, investments and short-term debt
approximate their carrying values due to the short period of time to maturity. Fair values of long-term debt are based on quoted market prices or pricing models using current market rates, which approximate carrying values.         
   F-8   

Table of Contents  

    IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)         Management Fees
       The Company received management fees from Warrior Resources, Inc. during 2004. Warrior Resources, Inc. was under common control of
the Company until November 2005. On January 16, 2004 the Company acquired all of the assets and certain liabilities of Warrior Resources, Inc. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company earned $0, $0 and $74,000 respectively in management fees as
reflected in other income. The payment of management fees terminated with the closing of the acquisition.        Concentrations of Credit Risk
       Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash
and accounts receivable.      The Company s cash is deposited in two financial institutions. Cash and certificates of deposit at banks are
insured by the FDIC up to $100,000. At times, the balances in these accounts may be in excess of federally insured limits. The Company currently operates in the oil and gas industry. The concentration of credit risk in a single industry affects the
Company s overall exposure to credit risk because customers may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. The Company s major purchasers of its oil and gas during 2006 were Plains Marketing, Duke Energy and Navajo
Refining accounting for 16.6%, 21.9% and 24.7 % revenues respectively. The Company s major purchasers of its oil and gas during 2005 were Plains Marketing, Duke Energy and Navajo Refining accounting for 18.9%, 19.0% and 19.4% revenues,
respectively. The Company s major purchasers of its oil and gas during 2004 were Plains Marketing, Duke Energy and Navajo Refining accounting for 17.1%, 18.1% and 12.5% revenues, respectively.        Revenue Recognition        The Company s
consolidated financial statements are prepared using the accrual method of accounting. The Company recognizes revenues based on actual volumes of oil and gas sold based on the month of production.        Oil and Gas Properties        The Company follows
the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Accordingly, all costs associated with acquisition, exploration, and development of oil and gas reserves, including directly related overhead costs, are capitalized. All capitalized
costs of oil and gas properties, including the estimated future costs to develop proved reserves, are amortized on the unit-of-production method using estimates of proved reserves. Investments in unproved properties and major development projects
are not amortized until proved reserves associated with the projects can be determined or until impairment occurs. If the results of an assessment indicate that the properties are impaired, the amount of the impairment is added to the capitalized
costs to be amortized.      In addition, the capitalized costs are subject to a  ceiling test,  which basically limits such costs to
the aggregate of the  estimated present value,  discounted at a 10-percent interest rate of future net revenues from proved reserves, based on current economic and operating conditions, plus the lower of cost or fair market value of
unproved properties.      Sales of proved and unproved properties are accounted for as adjustments of capitalized costs with no gain or loss
recognized, unless such adjustments would significantly alter the relationship between capitalized costs and proved reserves of oil and gas, in which case the gain or loss is recognized in income.        Other Property and Equipment        Property and
equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is computed by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of assets. Expenditures which significantly increase values or extend useful lives are capitalized. Expenditures for maintenance and
repairs are charged to expenses as incurred. Upon sale or retirement of property and equipment, the cost and related accumulated depreciation and depletion are eliminated from the respective accounts and the resulting gain or loss is included in
current earnings.         
   F-9   

Table of Contents  

    IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)       Mining exploration
costs are expensed as incurred. Development costs are capitalized. Depletion of capitalized mining costs will be calculated on the units of production method based upon current production and reserve estimates when placed in service.        Long-Lived Assets        Long-lived assets to be
held and used or disposed of other than by sale are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When required, impairment losses on assets to be held and used or
disposed of other than by sale are recognized based on the fair value of the asset. Long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale are reported at the lower of its carrying amount of fair value less cost to sell.        Amortization of Financing Fees        Deferred
financing fees are amortized ratably over the term of the related debt. Amortization expense for 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $ 1,006,730, $ 612,444 and $234,241 respectively.        Income Taxes        Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the
year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.        Loss Per Common Share        Loss per common share
is computed based upon the weighted average common shares outstanding. Outstanding warrants are excluded from the weighted average shares outstanding since their effect on the earnings per share calculation is anti-dilutive.        Reclassification        Certain amounts in the 2005
consolidated financial statements were reclassified in 2006.        Recent Accounting Pronouncements         SFAS 123R       On December 16, 2004,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment which is a revision of FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. Statement 123(R) supercedes APB
opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to employees, and amends FASB Statement No. 95, Statement of Cash Flows. Generally, the approach in Statement 123(R) is similar to the approach described in Statement 123. However, Statement
123(R) requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative. The provisions of this
statement became effective for our year-ended July 31, 2005. The Company did not issue any stock-based compensation to its employees during 2006 and as a result had no impact on the Company s financial statements for the year ended
July 31, 2006 and 2005.         
   F-10   

Table of Contents  

    IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        2. GOING CONCERN         Financial Condition        The Company s
financial statements for the year ended July 31, 2006 have been prepared on a going concern basis which contemplates the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities in the normal course of business. The Company incurred net losses
of $3,426,724, $2,695,812 and $1,450,822 for the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and as of July 31, 2006 has an accumulated deficit of $14,965,775.        Management Plans to Continue as a Going Concern        The Company completed a portion of the sale
of certain oil and gas properties in August 2006 and paid down its senior debt by $11.3 million and an additional $1.7 million in November 2006. The Company engaged an investment banking firm to assist in raising equity or re-structuring its debt
facility to provide capital for growth and more favorable interest rate terms. The Company has received an offer of financing as a result of that effort and is reviewing the terms. With the start-up of its facilities damaged by hurricanes in
Louisiana, the Company expects its remaining properties to provide sufficient cash flow to service any new facility that is put in place. Because the company continues to operate under the terms of its Forbearance Agreement and amendments thereto,
with its current lender, there can be no assurance that its current lender will afford the Company sufficient time to complete an alternative financing.       3. PROPERTY, PLANT and EQUIPMENT       The Company s property, plant and equipment consist of the following:       
    The Company has not completed or updated the necessary reserve studies of its mining claims to
determine the metal content of the reserves and the related future production costs which affect the recoverability of the capitalized costs. In addition, the Company s going concern issues in the past, lack of capital for mining and other
factors led management to recognize an impairment reserve to reduce the carrying value to management s estimate of the amount recoverable upon ultimate disposition. Since ATLCC, Inc. has not, as of year-end, conducted any mining activities,
management continues to recognize the impairment reserve. The Company intends to continue to hold and use the impaired mining assets.      The
Company accounts for its oil and gas properties under the full cost method. The Company s capitalized costs for oil and gas properties result from its acquisitions of an interest in the Bovina field in Warren County, Mississippi and its 2004
acquisitions of the Warrior Resources, Inc., Hillside Oil   Gas LLC, Caltex/ Apache and Coquille Bay acquisitions.         
   F-11   

Table of Contents  

    IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        4. INCOME TAXES       Provisions for income taxes are as follows:       
    Income taxes differed from the amounts computed by applying the U.S. federal tax rate as a result
of the following:       
    While the Company has not filed its tax returns for the most recent fiscal year, following are the
estimated tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and liabilities:       
    A valuation allowance is required when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the
deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of the deferred tax assets is dependent upon future profitability. Accordingly, a valuation allowance has been established to reduce the deferred tax assets to a level which, more
likely than not, will be realized.      The Company has net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards to offset its earnings of approximately
$10,150,000. If not utilized, the net operating losses will expire in varying amounts from 2017 to 2026. Due to recurring losses and a lack of funding the Company has not been filing its tax returns. Provisions for current and deferred taxes are
estimated using known facts. The Company believes its net operating losses are sufficient to offset any potential income tax liability.         
   F-12   

Table of Contents  

    IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        5. NOTES PAYABLE AND LINE OF CREDIT
       
    Current maturities of notes payable are as follows:       
      Notes Payable   Related Party         
     LINE OF CREDIT       The Company maintains a revolving line of credit agreement with a lending institution totaling $18 million. The Company had $19,247,014 and $15,440,811 in outstanding advances and accrued interest as of July 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively. The line of credit provides for interest at the rate of the prime rate plus 8% due January 15, 2007, secured by the oil and gas properties and certain assets of the Company. Subsequent to year-end the Company
reduced its debt with the proceeds of its property sales by approximately $11.3 million in August 2006 and an additional $1.7 million in November 2006.      The Company has been operating under a Forbearance Agreement with its Senior Lender since November 2005. The Forbearance Agreement and amendments thereto provided for, among other things, that the Company would retain
an investment advisor in the connection with the sale of certain assets to reduce its debt and would complete the sale of assets subject to certain schedules provided therein. The Company hired Macquarie Securities as its financial advisor in
connection with the sale of assets to Whittier Energy Company and Premier Natural Resources. The asset sale was closed subsequent to year-end and the Company signed Amendment #4 to its credit agreement which modified certain financial covenants and
provided for approval of the sale of the assets.         
   F-13   

Table of Contents  

    IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        6. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
      The Company has entered into transactions with its chief executive officer, Jeffrey T. Wilson and a Company owned and controlled by
Mr. Wilson, H.N. Corporation. For 2006 and 2005 the Company has accrued an annual salary of $125,000 and $125,000, respectively, for Mr. Wilson. The Company, had accrued salaries payable to Mr. Wilson of $35,389 as of July 31,
2006.      The Company owes its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey T. Wilson, as a result of loans to the Company, a total of
$620,530 in principal as of July 31, 2006. Interest rates on the loans are fixed at 10%, 7.5% and 9% respectively. A loan to Ridgepointe Mining Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company bears interest at 9%. All of the loans are secured
by a third mortgage granted by the Company to Wilson on the oil and gas assets.      During 2005, the Company entered into an agreement to sell
its mining assets to Warrior Resources, inc., an affiliate of the Company, in connection with the change of control of Warrior. The transaction was unwound and the Company retained the mining assets and subsequently entered into a similar
transaction with an unaffiliated third party.       7. ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATION       Effective January 1, 2003, the Company implemented the requirements of SFAS 143. Among other things, SFAS 143 requires entities to record a liability
and corresponding increase in long-lived assets for the present value of material obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets. Over the passage of time, accretion of the liability is recognized as an operation expense
and the capitalized cost is depleted over the estimated useful life of the related asset. Additionally, SFAS No. 143 requires that upon initial application of these standards, the Company must recognize a cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle corresponding to the accumulated accretion and depletion expense that would have been recognized had this standard been applied at the time the long-lived assets were acquired or constructed. The Company s asset retirement
obligations relate primarily to the plugging, dismantling and removal of wells drilled to date.      Using a credit-adjusted risk free rate of
8%, and estimated useful life of wells ranging from 30-40 years, and estimated plugging and abandonment cost ranging from $2,500 per well to $27,666 per well, the Company has recorded a non-cash fixed asset addition and associated liability related
to its property acquisitions of $230,793. Oil and gas properties were increased by $230,793, which represents the present value of all future obligations to retire the wells at January 16, 2004. A corresponding obligation totaling $230,793 has
also been recorded as of January, 2004. At July 31, 2006 the obligation was increased to $285,607. For the periods ended July 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, the Company recorded accretion expenses of $47,441 and $7,373 associated with
this liability. These expenses are included in interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations.       8. LITIGATION, COMMITMENTS AND
CONTINGENCIES       The Company is a named defendant in lawsuits, is a party in governmental proceedings, and is subject to claims of third
parties from time to time arising in the ordinary course of business. While the outcome of lawsuits or other proceedings and claims against the Company cannot be predicted with certainty, management does not expect these matters to have a material
adverse effect on the financial position of the Company.      The Company acquired certain accounts payable from Warrior in the amount of
$313,607 and Hillside in the amount of $378,861 as a result of the acquisitions of the assets of each. Nearly all of the trade accounts payable were delinquent when acquired. During 2004, the Company reduced the trade accounts payable of Warrior and
Hillside to $22,221 and $142,603 respectively through payments and settlements of accounts. During 2005, the Company completed the settlements with vendors on these old accounts.      The Company has accrued revenue payable in legal and petty suspense accounts in the amount of $81,364 and $12,098, respectively, as of July 31,
2006. The Company has continued to research owner account information in order to properly distribute legal suspense accounts in the normal course of business. Subsequent to year-end and in connection with the sale of assets, a substantial portion
of the legal suspense funds were paid to the purchasers of the assets for their further handling in connection with the properties. Suspense accounts are cleared out annually and paid to the owners.         
   F-14   

Table of Contents  

    IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)       The Company has a
plugging liability for oil and gas operations in the various states in the amount of $285,607. The Company has plugging bonds posted with the state regulatory agencies in the amount of $172,346 to offset the cost of plugging wells in the future.
      Imperial Petroleum, Inc. versus Ravello Capital LLC       The Company filed suit in Federal District Court in Tulsa County, Oklahoma against Ravello Capital LLC ( Ravello ) on November 20, 2000. The suit alleged branch of contract and sought to have the
contract declared partially performed in the amount of 474,900 and sought relief in the amount of $488,390 for the unpaid consideration and punative damages and attorney fees. The Company received a judgment award against Ravello in the amount of
$488,390 and subsequently collected and credited the judgment award against Ravello in the amount of $85,638.02 as a result of the re-issuance of certain of its shares in Warrior, held by Ravello in escrow and not released. The Company does not
believe it will be successful in collecting the balance of the judgment against Ravello.      The Company, through its predecessor in interest,
was named a defendant in a class action lawsuit seeking damages by the plaintiffs for inadequate development of the Moss Unit located in Panola County, Texas. The plaintiffs sought unspecified damages. The lawsuit was settled subsequent to year-end
through the execution of a farmout agreement with a company nominated by the plaintiffs to drill additional wells in the Unit. The Company retained an over-riding royalty interest in the farmout wells to be drilled and all rights to its existing
proration unit surrounding the Moss well, as well as $132,500 as consideration for executing the farmout. Seven additional producing wells have subsequently been drilled in the Unit.      The Company, through its predecessor in interest, was named with others in a breach of its duties to act as a reasonably prudent operator in the
development of the Crump Gas Unit in Panola county, Texas. The Crump Unit encompasses the Company s Mittie Horton well. The Plaintiff is seeking a cancellation of the lease for failure to produce hydrocarbons in paying quantities or
alternatively to establish a lien against the leasehold to secure payment of plaintiff s damages resulting from the Company s failure to develop the property. The damages are unspecified. The Company executed a farmout agreement with Burke
Royalty, a co-defendant in the suit, regarding the acreage in question. Burke negotiated a settlement under which the Plaintiffs would arrange to drill additional wells. The Company has a 12.5% carried working interest in the first well drilled in
the unit and the right to participate for a 12.5% working interest in subsequent wells. The Company s interests in the new wells drilled under the farmout are currently not in pay and have not been recognized by the Farmee. The Company is
seeking a resolution of the matter with the Farmee.      The Company has received a letter from an attorney representing Powder River Basin Gas
Corp in reference to certain claims PRVB believes it has against the Company and its management in reference to the sale of PRVB and the warranties and representations provided by the Company. No lawsuit has been filed. Subsequent to year-end the
Company signed a mutual release of claims with PRVB and the matter has been settled.         
   F-15   

Table of Contents  

    IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        9. STOCK WARRANTS       The following schedule summarizes pertinent information with regard to the stock warrants for the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
      
    As of July 31, 2006, the Company has 5,416,715 warrants exercisable at $.01, expiring on
various dates on or after 1/16/07. RAB Capital exercised its warrants in the amount of 2,000,000 shares on October 27, 2004 at $0.12 per share.      During the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company recorded $0 for services rendered related to warrants issued under the agreements.       10. SHAREHOLDER EQUITY TRANSACTIONS       During fiscal 2006 the Company issued a total of 375,000 shares
for services and fees. The Company issued a total of 125,000 shares of its restricted common in connection with an investor awareness campaign to Pasadena Capital Partners. In addition the Company issued 125,000 shares to Blue Wave Advisors for an
investor awareness campaign. Macquarie Securities was issued 125,000 of restricted common stock for services in connection with the sale of assets by the Company, however, Macquarie later decided to accept cash in lieu of the shares and the shares
were subsequently cancelled.       11. LEASE OBLIGATIONS       During 2006 the Company had a non-cancelable operating lease agreement for office space at its headquarters at 329 Main Street, Suite 801, Evansville, IN. The term of the agreement was 2 years from February 2004 and
provided for monthly rent of $941. The Company maintains its current office space on a month-to-month basis. Total rental expense was $11,294, $11,294 and $4,706 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.       
       
   F-16   

Table of Contents  

    IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        12. ACCRUED EXPENSES    
  The Company has accrued expenses as of July 31 as follows:       
     13. PRIOR PERIOD ADJUSTMENTS       Net income for 2004 has been adjusted to correct errors. In 2004, depletion expense was understated due to an improper calculation of the Company s interest in certain properties. This adjustment resulted in a
decrease in net income for 2004 of $280,304 and a decrease in net property, plant and equipment of $280,304. Retained earnings has been corrected to reflect these adjustments.       14. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS       The Company completed the Phase I closing of the sale of assets to Whittier
Energy Company and Premier Natural Resources, LLC in August 2006 and received proceeds of approximately $12.1 million of which $11.3 million went to pay down senior debt and the balance to reduce the Company s vendor payables. As a result
of the sale, the Company s oil and gas reserves were reduced to 370 MBO and 2.7 Bcfg and the company estimates it will recognize a $1.1 million gain on disposition of assets. The Company anticipates additional proceeds from the sale at
post-closing in November 2006 of $1.7 million which will be used to further reduce senior debt and to reduce vendor payables.      On
August 1, 2006 stockholders approved a 1 for 4 reverse stock split. All share numbers in these financial statements and footnotes have been retroactively adjusted to account for the reverse split.      In connection with the Annual Shareholders Meeting on August 1, 2006, the shareholders approved a four for one (4 for 1) reverse split of the
Company s authorized common and an increase in the Company s authorized capital from 50,000,000 common shares (par value $0.006/sh) to 150,000,000 common shares (par value $0.006/sh).         
   F-17   

Table of Contents  

    IMPERIAL PETROLEUM, INC.        Supplemental Information        (Unaudited)        For the Years Ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004        
    During fiscal 2006 the Company acquired certain interests in Bastian Bay located in Louisiana as a
workover project.       
    The following table sets forth the Company s net proved oil and gas reserves at July 31,
2006 and the changes in net proved oil and gas reserves for the years then ended. Proved reserves represent the estimated quantities of crude oil and natural gas which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be
recoverable in the future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. The reserve information indicated below requires substantial judgment on the part of the reserve engineers, resulting in estimates which are not
subject to precise determination. Accordingly, it is expected that the estimates of estimates of reserves will change as future production and development information becomes available and that revisions in these estimates could be significant.
Reserves are measured in barrels (bbls) in the case of oil, and units of one thousand cubic feet (MCF) in the case of gas.       
    All of the Company s reserves are located in the continental United States. The natural gas
sales and dispositions in 2005 (2,150,000) mcf resulted primarily from the farmout of acreage relating to proved undeveloped reserves in East Texas to third parties in connection with the settlement of certain litigation (Note 7. Litigation).
The result of these farmouts is that our net interests in the wells was reduced and as a consequence, both our future capital costs and our net proved reserves were also reduced. In 2006, the Company acquired an interest in the Bastian Bay field in
Louisiana.         
   F-18   

Table of Contents  

    Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows        
    Estimated future net cash flows represent an estimate of the net revenues from the production of
proved reserves using current sales prices, along with estimates of the operating costs, production taxes and future development and abandonment costs (less salvage value) necessary to produce such reserves. The average prices used at July 31,
2006 were $71.25 per barrel of oil and $7.25 per MMBTU of gas respectively. No deduction has been made for depreciation, depletion or any indirect costs such as general corporate overhead or interest expense.      Operating costs and production taxes are estimated based on current costs with respect to producing gas properties. Future development costs are based on
the best estimate of such costs assuming current economic and operating conditions. The estimates of reserve values include estimated future development costs that the Company does not currently have the ability to fund. If the Company is unable to
obtain additional funds, it may not be able to develop its oil and natural gas properties as estimated in its July 31, 2006 reserve report.      The future net revenue information assumes no escalation of costs or prices. Future costs and prices could significantly vary from current amounts and, accordingly, revisions in the future could be significant.         
   F-19   

<EX-31.1>
 2
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO

Certification of CEO 

EXHIBIT 31.1        CERTIFICATION OF PRESIDENT        PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)       I, Jeffrey T. Wilson, President and Chief Executive Officer of Imperial Petroleum, Inc., certify that:      1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Imperial Petroleum, Inc.;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. Because the chief financial officer position is presently vacant, I am
solely responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      (b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      (c) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and      5. I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions):      (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting.       

Date: November 15, 2006  
      
    /s/ Jeffrey T. Wilson    

Jeffrey T. Wilson     President and Chief Executive
Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 3
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PRESIDENT AND CFO

Certification of president and CFO 

EXHIBIT 32.1        CERTIFICATION OF PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER        PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
       AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
July 31, 2006 of Imperial Petroleum, Inc. (the  Company ) as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), and pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned officer, presently being the sole officer of the Company, does hereby certify that to the best of his knowledge:      (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the Company.

Date: November 15, 2006  
      
    /s/ Jeffrey T. Wilson    

Jeffrey T. Wilson     President and Chief Executive
Officer    

</EX-32.1>

