<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061114_10-K_edgar_data_739608_0000950134-06-021484_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1196662</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>269509</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>669830</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>65</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-06-021484.hdr.sgml : 20061114
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061114103510
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-06-021484
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060831
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061114
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061114

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PENFORD CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000739608
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS [2040]
		IRS NUMBER:				911221360
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0831

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-11488
		FILM NUMBER:		061211958

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		7094 SOUTH REVERE PARKWAY
		CITY:			CENTENNIAL
		STATE:			CO
		ZIP:			80112-3932
		BUSINESS PHONE:		303-649-1900

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		7094 SOUTH REVERE PARKWAY
		CITY:			CENTENNIAL
		STATE:			CO
		ZIP:			80112-3932

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PENWEST LTD
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 HWeBe4FZbEBVccgHefbzjSwqlO/QGUS7z2aZyt9jffmAVkrEyRudclu5Plh9zeD8
 bOGgIa7ODPaw+eV1ImwFRw==

 0000950134-06-021484.txt : 20061114

10-K
 1
 d41196e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission File Number 0-11488 

Penford Corporation  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 

(303) 649-1900  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of Each Class 

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 

Common Stock, $1.00 par value

Nasdaq Global Market

Common Stock Purchase Rights

Nasdaq Global Market

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 

None 

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes  o 
      No   

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes  o   No   

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for at least the past
    90 days.  Yes      No  o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
    filer. See definition of  accelerated filer  and
     large accelerated filer  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one).

Large accelerated
    filer   o      Accelerated
    filer          Non-accelerated
    filer   o      

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes  o 
      No   

The aggregate market value of the Registrant s Common Stock
    held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of February 28,
    2006, the last business day of the Registrant s second
    quarter of fiscal 2006, was approximately $81.5 million
    based upon the last sale price reported for such date on the
    Nasdaq Global Market. For purposes of making this calculation,
    Registrant has assumed that all the outstanding shares were held
    by non-affiliates, except for shares held by Registrant s
    directors and officers and by each person who owns 5% or more of
    the outstanding Common Stock. However, this does not necessarily
    mean that there are not other persons who may be deemed to be
    affiliates of the Registrant.

The number of shares of the Registrant s Common Stock (the
    Registrant s only outstanding class of stock) outstanding
    as of November 7, 2006 was 8,954,387.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the Registrant s definitive Proxy Statement
    relating to the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are
    incorporated by reference into Part III of this
     Form 10-K. 

PENFORD
    CORPORATION 

FISCAL
    YEAR 2006
     FORM 10-K 
    ANNUAL REPORT 

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

Page 

PART I   

Item 1.  

Business  

2

Item 1A  

Risk
    Factors  

8

Item 1B  

Unresolved Staff
    Comments  

10

Item 2.  

Properties  

10

Item 3.  

Legal
    Proceedings  

11

Item 4.  

Submission of
    Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

11

PART II   

Item 5.  

Market for
    Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
    Issuer Purchasers of Equity Securities  

12

Item 6.  

Selected Financial
    Data  

12

Item 7.  

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  

13

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

24

Item 8.  

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data  

26

Item 9.  

Changes in and
    Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
    Disclosure  

58

Item 9A.  

Controls and
    Procedures  

58

Item 9B.  

Other
    Information  

58

PART III   

Item 10.  

Directors and
    Executive Officers of the Registrant  

58

Item 11.  

Executive
    Compensation  

58

Item 12.  

Security Ownership
    of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
    Stockholder Matters  

58

Item 13.  

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions  

59

Item 14.  

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services  

59

PART IV   

Item 15.  

Exhibits and
    Financial Statement Schedules  

59

Signatures  

61

Restated and Amended Articles of Incorporation    
     Deferred Compensation Plan    
     Subsidiaries of the Registrant    
     Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
     Power of Attorney    
     Certifications of CEO Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certifications of CFO Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certifications of CEO and CFO Pursuant to Section 906    

1

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Forward-looking
    Statements  

The statements contained in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    ( Annual Report ) that are not historical facts,
    including, but not limited to statements found in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements and in Item 1  
    Business and Item 7   Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations, are forward-looking statements that represent
    management s beliefs and assumptions based on currently
    available information. Forward-looking statements can be
    identified by the use of words such as  believes, 
     may,   will,   looks, 
     should,   could,   anticipates, 
     expects,  or comparable terminology or by discussions
    of strategies or trends. 

Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected
    in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it cannot
    give any assurances that these expectations will prove to be
    correct. Such statements by their nature involve substantial
    risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected
    results. Actual future results could differ materially from
    those described in such forward-looking statements, and the
    Company does not intend to update or revise any forward-looking
    statements, whether as a result of new information, future
    events or otherwise. Among the factors that could cause actual
    results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties
    discussed in this Annual Report, including those referenced
    below, and those described from time to time in other filings
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission which include, but
    are not limited to, competition; the possibility of interruption
    of business activities due to equipment problems, accidents,
    strikes, weather or other factors; product development risk;
    changes in corn and other raw material prices and availability;
    expectations regarding the construction cost of the ethanol
    facility and the timing of ethanol production; changes in
    general economic conditions or developments with respect to
    specific industries or customers affecting demand for the
    Company s products including unfavorable shifts in product
    mix; unanticipated costs, expenses or third party claims; the
    risk that results may be affected by construction delays, cost
    overruns, technical difficulties, nonperformance by contractors
    or changes in capital improvement project requirements or
    specifications; interest rate, chemical and energy cost
    volatility; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes
    in assumptions used for determining employee benefit expense and
    obligations; or other unforeseen developments in the industries
    in which Penford operates. 

Item 1:   Business   

Description
    of Business  

Penford Corporation (which, together with its subsidiary
    companies, is referred to herein as  Penford  or the
     Company ) is a developer, manufacturer and marketer
    of specialty natural-based ingredient systems for industrial and
    food applications. Penford Corporation is a Washington
    corporation originally incorporated in September 1983. The
    Company commenced operations as a publicly-traded company on
    March 1, 1984.

The Company uses its carbohydrate chemistry expertise to develop
    ingredients with starch as a base for value-added applications
    in several markets including papermaking and food products. The
    Company manages its business in three segments. The first two,
    industrial ingredients and food ingredients are, broad
    categories of end-market users, primarily served by the
    Company s U.S. operations. The third segment consists
    of geographically separate operations in Australia and New
    Zealand. The Australian and New Zealand operations are engaged
    primarily in the food ingredients business.  Financial
    information about Penford s segments and geographic areas
    is included in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Penford s family of products provides functional
    characteristics to customers  products. Carbohydrate-based
    specialty starches possess binding and film-forming attributes
    that provide convenient and cost-effective solutions that make
    customers  products perform better. The Company has
    extensive research and development capabilities, which are used
    in understanding the complex chemistry of carbohydrate-based
    materials and their application.

Penford has specialty processing capabilities for a variety of
    modified starches. Specialty products for industrial
    applications are designed to improve the strength and quality of
    customers  products and efficiencies in the manufacture of
    coated and uncoated paper and paper packaging products. These
    starches are principally

2

Table of Contents   

ethylated (chemically modified with ethylene oxide), oxidized
    (treated with sodium hypochlorite) and cationic (carrying a
    positive electrical charge). Ethylated and oxidized starches are
    used in coatings and as binders, providing strength and
    printability to fine white, magazine and catalog paper. Cationic
    and other liquid starches are generally used in the
    paper-forming process in paper production, providing strong
    bonding of paper fibers and other ingredients. Penford s
    products are a cost-effective alternative to synthetic
    ingredients.

Specialty starches produced for food applications are used in
    coatings to provide crispness, improved taste and texture, and
    increased product life for products such as French fries sold in
    quick-service restaurants. Food-grade starch products are also
    used as moisture binders to reduce fat levels, modify texture
    and improve color and consistency in a variety of foods such as
    canned products, sauces, whole and processed meats, dry powdered
    mixes and other food and bakery products.

In June 2006, the Company announced plans to invest
    $42 million for up to 40 million gallons of ethanol
    production capacity per year at its Cedar Rapids, Iowa facility.
    The Company currently expects the facility to be producing
    ethanol by the end of calendar 2007. Penford has much of the
    infrastructure within the Cedar Rapids plant to participate in
    the ethanol market with sufficient grain handling, separation
    processes, utilities and logistic capabilities. The existing
    factory is centrally located near rail and ground transport
    arteries and the ethanol facility will occupy available space
    within the existing site footprint. In October 2006, Penford
    refinanced its credit facility and obtained a $45 million
    capital expansion loan commitment maturing December 2012 to
    finance construction of the ethanol plant.

In November 2002, Penford sold certain assets of its resistant
    starch business to National Starch Corporation ( National
    Starch ) for $2.5 million. In fiscal 2003, Penford
    also exclusively licensed to National Starch certain rights to
    its resistant starch patent portfolio (the  RS
    Patents ) for applications in human nutrition. Under the
    terms of the agreements, Penford received an initial licensing
    fee of $2.25 million and will receive annual royalties for
    a period of seven years or until a maximum of $11.0 million
    in royalties has been received by Penford. The licensing fee is
    being amortized over the life of the agreement. The royalty
    payments are subject to a minimum of $7 million over the
    first five years of the licensing agreement.

On September 11, 2006, in connection with the settlement of
    litigation in which Penford s Australian subsidiary
    companies were plaintiffs, Penford granted to Cargill
    Incorporated ( Cargill ), in exchange for a one-time
    payment, a license under the RS Patents in certain non-human
    nutrition applications. In addition, Penford entered into an
    agreement with Cargill and National Starch pursuant to which
    National Starch granted to Cargill a sublicense, with royalties
    payable to Penford, of rights under the RS Patents in human
    nutrition applications. As part of the settlement agreement,
    Penford will receive certain other benefits, including an
    acceleration and extension of certain royalties under its 2002
    license with National Starch.

Raw
    Materials  

Corn:   Penford s North American corn wet
    milling plant is located in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, the middle of
    the U.S. corn belt. Accordingly, the plant has
    truck-delivered corn available throughout the year from a number
    of suppliers at prices consistent with those available in the
    major U.S. grain markets.

Penford Australia s corn wet milling facilities in Lane
    Cove, Australia, and Auckland, New Zealand are sourced through
    truck-delivered corn at contracted prices with regional
    independent farmers and merchants. The corn sourced in Australia
    and New Zealand is contracted prior to harvest
    (March   June). Corn used in Australia is purchased
    and stored for use in both the current and following year. The
    corn sourced in New Zealand is purchased forward for future
    delivery. Corn is also purchased from Australia as necessary to
    supplement the corn sourced and processed in New Zealand.

Potato Starch:   The Company s facilities
    in Idaho Falls, Idaho; Richland, Washington; and Plover,
    Wisconsin use starch recovered as by-products from potato
    processors as the primary raw material to manufacture modified
    potato starches. The Company enters into contracts typically
    having durations of one to three years with potato processors in
    the United States, Canada and Mexico to acquire potato-based raw
    materials.

3

Table of Contents   

Wheat Products:   Penford Australia s
    Tamworth facility uses wheat flour as the primary raw material
    for the production of its wheat products, including wheat
    starch, wheat gluten and glucose syrup. Tanker trucks from a
    local flour mill currently supply wheat flour under a four-year
    supply agreement which expires in December 2007.

Chemicals:   The primary chemicals used in the
    manufacturing processes are readily available commodity
    chemicals. The prices for these chemicals are subject to price
    fluctuations due to market conditions.

Natural Gas:   The primary energy source for
    most of Penford s plants is natural gas. Penford contracts
    its natural gas supply with regional suppliers, generally under
    short-term supply agreements, and at times uses futures
    contracts to hedge the price of natural gas in North America. In
    August 2005, the Company entered into a contract with a regional
    supplier of methane gas from a landfill near the Cedar Rapids,
    Iowa facility. This fuel provides a portion of the energy
    required to generate power for the manufacturing plant.

Corn, potato starch, wheat flour, chemicals and natural gas are
    not presently subject to availability constraints, although
    drought conditions in Australia have periodically impacted the
    prices of corn and wheat in that area and strong demand has
    substantially increased natural gas and chemical prices.
    Although supplies are readily available, current forecasts for
    wheat production in Australia indicate that the existing drought
    will impact the future price for that raw material.
    Penford s current potato starch requirements constitute a
    material portion of the available North American supply. Penford
    estimates that it purchases approximately 50-55% of the
    recovered potato starch in North America. It is possible that,
    in the long term, continued growth in demand for potato
    starch-based ingredients and new product development could
    result in capacity constraints.

Over half of the Company s manufacturing costs arise from
    the costs of corn, potato starch, wheat flour, chemicals and
    natural gas. The remaining portion consists of the costs of
    labor, distribution, depreciation and maintenance of
    manufacturing plant and equipment, and other utilities. The
    prices of raw materials may fluctuate, and increases in prices
    may affect Penford s business adversely. To mitigate this
    risk, Penford hedges a portion of corn and gas purchases with
    futures and options contracts in the U.S. and enters into short
    term supply agreements for other production requirements in all
    locations.

Research
    and Development  

Penford s research and development efforts cover a range of
    projects including technical service work focused on specific
    customer support projects requiring coordination with
    customers  research efforts to develop innovative solutions
    to specific customer requirements. These projects are
    supplemented with longer-term, new product development and
    commercialization initiatives. Research and development expenses
    were $6.2 million, $5.8 million and $6.1 million
    for fiscal years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively.

At the end of fiscal 2006, Penford had 36 scientists, including
    seven PhD s who comprise a body of expert knowledge of
    carbohydrate characteristics and chemistry.

Patents,
    Trademarks and Tradenames  

Penford owns a number of patents, trademarks and tradenames.

Penford has approximately 220 current patents and pending patent
    applications, most of which are related to technologies in
    French fry coatings, coatings for the paper industry and high
    amylose resistant starch. Penford s issued patents expire
    at various times between 2007 and 2023. The annual cost to renew
    all of the Company s patents is approximately
    $0.1 million. However, most of Penford s products are
    currently made with technology that is broadly available to
    companies that have the same level of scientific expertise and
    production capabilities as Penford.

Specialty starch ingredient brand names for industrial
    applications include, among others,
    Penford   
    Gums,
    Pensize   
    binders,
    Penflex   
    sizing agent,
    Topcat   
    cationic additive and the
    Apollo   
    starch series. Product brand names for food ingredient
    applications include
    PenBind   ,
    PenCling   ,
    PenPlus   ,
    CanTab   ,
    MAPS  tm  ,
    Mazaca  tm  
    and
    Fieldcleer  tm   .

4

Table of Contents   

Quarterly
    Fluctuations  

Penford s revenues and operating results vary from quarter
    to quarter. In particular, the Company experiences seasonality
    in its Australian operations. The Company has lower sales
    volumes and gross margins in Australia and New Zealand s
    summer months, which occur during Penford s second fiscal
    quarter. This seasonal decline is caused by the closure of some
    customers  plants for public holidays and maintenance
    during this period. Decreased consumption of some foods which
    use the Company s products, such as packaged bread, also
    contributes to this seasonal trend. Sales volumes of the Food
    Ingredients   North America products used in French
    fry coatings are also generally lower during Penford s
    second fiscal quarter due to decreased consumption of French
    fries during the post-holiday season.

Working
    Capital  

Penford generally carries a one to 45 day supply of
    materials required for production, depending on the lead time
    for specific items. Penford manufactures finished goods to
    customer orders or anticipated demand. The Company is therefore
    able to carry less than a 30 day supply of most products.
    Terms for trade receivables and trade payables are standard for
    the industry and region and generally do not exceed
     30-day  terms
    except for trade receivables for export sales.

Environmental
    Matters  

Penford s operations are governed by various Federal,
    state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. In
    the United States, such laws and regulations include the Clean
    Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and
    Recovery Act, the EPA Oil Pollution Control Act, the
    Occupational Safety and Health Administration s hazardous
    materials regulations, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the
    Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability
    Act, and the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act. In
    Australia, Penford is subject to the environmental requirements
    of the Protection of the Environment Operations Act, the
    Dangerous Goods Act, the Ozone Protection Act, the
    Environmentally Hazardous Chemicals Act, and the Contaminated
    Land Management Act. In New Zealand, the Company is subject to
    the Resource Management Act, the Dangerous Goods Act, the
    Hazardous Substances and New Organisms Act and the Ozone
    Protection Act.

Permits are required by the various environmental agencies which
    regulate the Company s operations. Penford believes that it
    has obtained all necessary material environmental permits
    required for its operations. Penford believes that its
    operations are in compliance with applicable environmental laws
    and regulations in all material aspects of its business. Penford
    estimates that annual compliance costs, excluding operational
    costs for emission control devices, wastewater treatment or
    disposal fees, are approximately $1.7 million.

Penford has adopted and implemented a comprehensive
    corporate-wide environmental management program. The program is
    managed by the Corporate Director of Environmental, Health and
    Safety and is designed to structure the conduct of
    Penford s business in a safe and fiscally responsible
    manner that protects and preserves the health and safety of
    employees, the communities surrounding the Company s
    plants, and the environment. The Company continuously monitors
    environmental legislation and regulations which may affect
    Penford s operations.

During fiscal 2006, there have been no material impacts on the
    Company s operations resulting from compliance with
    environmental regulations. No unusual expenditures for
    environmental facilities and programs are anticipated in the
    coming year.

Principal
    Customers  

Penford sells to a variety of customers and has several
    relatively large customers in each business segment. However,
    over the last three years Penford has had no customers that
    annually purchased its products in amounts in excess of 10% of
    sales.

Competition  

In its primary markets, Penford competes directly with
    approximately five other companies that manufacture specialty
    starches for the papermaking industry and approximately six
    other companies that manufacture specialty

5

Table of Contents   

food ingredients. Penford competes indirectly with a larger
    number of companies that provide synthetic and natural-based
    ingredients to industrial and food customers. Some of these
    competitors are larger companies, and have greater financial and
    technical resources than Penford. Application expertise, quality
    and service are the major competitive advantages for Penford.

Employees  

At August 31, 2006, Penford had 571 total employees. In
    North America, Penford had 323 employees, of which approximately
    41% are members of a trade union. The collective bargaining
    agreement covering the Cedar Rapids-based manufacturing
    workforce expires in August 2009. Penford Australia had 249
    employees, of which 70% are members of trade unions in Australia
    and New Zealand. The union contracts for the Lane Cove,
    Australia, and the New Zealand facilities have expiration dates
    of December 2007 and April 2007, respectively. The Tamworth,
    Australia, union agreement expired in September 2006 and is
    currently being renegotiated. The Company does not expect any
    significant issues in renewing the contract.

Sales and
    Distribution  

Sales are generated using a combination of direct sales and
    distributor agreements. In many cases, Penford supports its
    sales efforts with technical and advisory assistance to
    customers. Penford generally ships its products upon receipt of
    purchase orders from its customers and, consequently, backlog is
    not significant.

Customers for industrial corn-based starch ingredients purchase
    products through fixed-price contracts or formula-priced
    contracts for periods covering three months to two years or on a
    spot basis. In fiscal 2006, approximately 67% of these sales
    were under fixed price contracts, with 33% representing formula
    price and spot business.

Since Penford s customers are generally other manufacturers
    and processors, most of the Company s products are
    distributed via rail or truck to customer facilities in bulk,
    except in Australia and New Zealand where most dry product is
    packaged in 25kg bags.

Foreign
    Operations and Export Sales  

Penford further expanded into foreign markets with its
    acquisition of Penford Australia in September 2000. Penford
    Australia is the primary producer of corn starch products in
    Australia and New Zealand. Penford Australia manufactures
    products used to enhance the quality of packaged food products,
    generally through providing the texture and viscosity required
    by its customers for products such as sauces and gravies.
    Penford Australia s starch products are also used in
    industrial applications including mining, paper, corrugating and
    building materials. The Company s operations in Australia
    and New Zealand include three manufacturing facilities for
    processing specialty corn starches and wheat-related products.
    Competition is mainly from imported products, except in wheat
    flour based starches where there is one other producer in
    Australia. Export sales from Penford s businesses in the
    U.S. and Australia/New Zealand accounted for approximately 13%,
    16% and 19% of total sales in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively.

Available
    Information  

Penford s Internet address is   www.penx.com . 
    On the investor relations section of its web site, the Company
    provides free access to Penford s annual report on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after such material is filed electronically with, or
    furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission
    ( SEC ). The information found on Penford s web
    site shall not be considered to be part of this or any other
    report filed with or furnished to the SEC.

6

Table of Contents   

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

Name 

Age 

Title 

Thomas D. Malkoski

50

President and Chief Executive
    Officer

Russell A. Allwell

42

Managing Director, Penford
    Australia and Penford New Zealand

Steven O. Cordier

50

Senior Vice President, Chief
    Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary

Timothy M. Kortemeyer

40

Vice President and President,
    Penford Products Co.

Wallace H. Kunerth

58

Vice President and Chief Science
    Officer

Christopher L. Lawlor

56

Vice President   Human
    Resources, General Counsel and Secretary

John R. Randall

62

Vice President and President,
    Penford Food Ingredients

Mr. Malkoski joined Penford Corporation as Chief Executive
    Officer and was appointed to the Board of Directors in January
    2002. He was named President of Penford Corporation in January
    2003. From 1997 to 2001 he served as President and Chief
    Executive Officer of Griffith Laboratories, North America, a
    formulator, manufacturer and marketer of ingredient systems to
    the food industry. Previously, he served as Vice
    President/Managing Director of the Asia Pacific and South
    Pacific regions for Chiquita Brands International.
    Mr. Malkoski began his career at the Procter and Gamble
    Company, a marketer of consumer brands, progressing through
    major product category management responsibilities.

Mr. Allwell joined Penford as Managing Director of its
    Australian and New Zealand operations in April 2006. Prior to
    joining Penford, Mr. Allwell had been the General Manager
    Retail Sales for George Weston Foods, a manufacturer of baked
    goods and other foods, since 2003. From 1996 to 2003,
    Mr. Allwell served in various senior management roles with
    Berri Ltd., a beverage manufacturer, including as Director of
    Strategy from 2000 to 2003, as Marketing Director from 1997 to
    2003, and as General Manager   New Ventures from 1996
    to 1997. Prior to that, Mr. Allwell served in various
    management, sales and marketing positions with Simplot
    Australia, Kraft Foods, Calbecks Ltd. and Humes ARC Ltd.

Mr. Cordier is Penford s Senior Vice President, Chief
    Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary. He joined Penford in
    July 2002 as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and was
    promoted to Senior Vice President in November 2004. From
    September 2005 to April 2006, Mr. Cordier served as the
    interim Managing Director of Penford s Australian and New
    Zealand operations. He came to Penford from Sensient
    Technologies Corporation, a manufacturer of specialty products
    for the food, beverage, pharmaceutical and technology
    industries. He served as Treasurer from 1995 to 1997 and as Vice
    President and Treasurer from 1997 to 1999. He completed his term
    at Sensient as Vice President, Administration from 1999 to 2002.
    During his tenure at Sensient, he had responsibility for
    treasury, investor relations and finance functions. In his
    different positions, he also managed other aspects of operations
    such as engineering, information technology and marketing. From
    1990 to 1995, he was employed in various financial management
    positions at International Flavors & Fragrances, a
    manufacturer of flavors and fragrances for the food, beverage
    and cosmetic industries.

Mr. Kortemeyer has served as Vice President of Penford
    Corporation since October 2005 and President of Penford Products
    Co., Penford s industrial ingredients business, since June
    2006. He served as General Manager of Penford Products from
    August 2005 to June 2006. Mr. Kortemeyer joined Penford in
    1999 and served as a Team Leader in the manufacturing operations
    of Penford Products until 2001. From 2001 until 2003, he was an
    Operations Manager and Quality Assurance Manager. From July 2003
    to November 2004, Mr. Kortemeyer served as the business
    unit manager of the Company s co-products business, and
    from November 2004 until August 2005, as the director of the
    Company s specialty starches product lines, responsible for
    sales, marketing and business development.

Dr. Kunerth has served as Penford s Vice President and
    Chief Science Officer since 2000. From 1997 to 2000, he served
    in food applications research management positions in the
    Consumer and Nutrition Sector at Monsanto Company, a provider of
    hydrocolloids, high intensity sweeteners, agricultural products
    and integrated solutions for

7

Table of Contents   

industrial, food and agricultural customers. Before Monsanto, he
    was the Vice President of Technology at Penford s food
    ingredients business from 1993 to 1997.

Mr. Lawlor joined Penford in April 2005 as Vice
    President-Human Resources, General Counsel and Secretary. From
    2002 to April 2005, Mr. Lawlor served as Vice
    President-Human Resources for Sensient Technologies Corporation,
    a manufacturer of specialty chemicals and food products. From
    2000 to 2002, he was Assistant General Counsel for Sensient.
    Mr. Lawlor was Vice President-Administration, General
    Counsel and Secretary for Kelley Company, Inc., a manufacturer
    of material handling and safety equipment from 1997 to 2000.
    Prior to joining Kelley Company, Mr. Lawlor was employed as
    an attorney at a manufacturer of paper and packaging products
    and in private practice with national and regional law firms.

Mr. Randall is Vice President of Penford Corporation and
    President of Penford Food Ingredients. He joined Penford in
    February 2003 as Vice President and General Manager of Penford
    Food Ingredients and was promoted to President of the Food
    Ingredients division in June 2006. Prior to joining Penford,
    Mr. Randall was Vice President, Research &
    Development/Quality Assurance of Griffith Laboratories, USA, a
    specialty foods ingredients business, from 1998 to 2003. From
    1993 to 1998, Mr. Randall served in various research and
    development positions with KFC Corporation, a quick-service
    restaurant business, most recently as Vice President, New
    Product Development. Prior to 1993, Mr. Randall served in
    research and development leadership positions at Romanoff
    International, Inc., a manufacturer and marketer of gourmet
    specialty food products, and at Kraft/General Foods.

Item 1A:   Risk
    Factors   

Increases
    in energy and chemical costs may reduce the Company s
    profitability.   

Energy and chemicals comprised approximately 13% and 12%,
    respectively, of the cost of manufacturing the Company s
    products in fiscal year 2006. Natural gas is used extensively in
    the Industrial Ingredients   North America business to
    dry starch products, and, to a lesser extent, in the
    Company s other business segments. Chemicals are used in
    all of Penford s businesses to modify starch for specific
    product applications and customer requirements. The prices of
    these inputs to the manufacturing process fluctuate based on
    anticipated changes in supply and demand, weather and the prices
    of alternative fuels, including petroleum. Penford may use
    short-term purchase contracts or exchange traded futures or
    option contracts to reduce the price volatility of natural gas;
    however, these strategies are not available for the chemicals
    the Company purchases. Penford may not be able to pass on
    increases in energy and chemical costs to its customers and
    margins and profitability would be adversely affected.

The
    availability and cost of agricultural products Penford purchases
    are vulnerable to weather and other factors beyond its
    control.   

In fiscal 2006, approximately 27% of Penford s
    manufacturing costs were the costs of agricultural raw
    materials, corn, wheat flour and maize. Weather conditions,
    plantings and global supply, among other things, have
    historically caused volatility in the supply and prices of these
    agricultural products. The Company may not be able to pass
    through the increases in the cost of agricultural raw materials
    to its customers. To manage price volatility in the commodity
    markets, the Company may purchase inventory in advance or enter
    into exchange traded futures or options contracts. Despite these
    hedging activities, Penford may not be successful in limiting
    its exposure to market fluctuations in the cost of agricultural
    raw materials. Increases in the cost of corn, wheat flour, maize
    and potato starch due to weather conditions or other factors
    beyond Penford s control and that cannot be passed through
    to customers will reduce Penford s future profitability.

The
    loss of a major customer could have an adverse effect on
    Penford s results of operations.   

None of the Company s customers constituted 10% of sales in
    the last three years. However, in fiscal year 2006, sales to the
    top ten customers and sales to the largest customer represented
    43% and 8%, respectively, of total consolidated net sales.
    Customers place orders on an as-needed basis and generally can
    change their suppliers without penalty. If the Company lost one
    or more of its major customers, or if one or more of its
    customers significantly reduced its orders, sales and results of
    operations would be adversely affected.

8

Table of Contents   

Changes
    in interest rates will affect Penford s
    profitability.   

At August 31, 2006, $20.7 million of the
    Company s outstanding debt, including amounts outstanding
    under the Australian grain inventory financing facility, was
    subject to variable interest rates which move in direct relation
    to the U.S. or Australian London InterBank Offered Rate
    ( LIBOR ), the Australian bank bill rate
    ( BBSY ), or the prime rate in the U.S., depending on
    the selection of borrowing options. Significant changes in these
    interest rates would materially affect Penford s
    profitability.

Unanticipated
    changes in tax rates or exposure to additional income tax
    liabilities could affect Penford s
    profitability.   

Penford is subject to income taxes in the United States,
    Australia and New Zealand. The Company s effective tax
    rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of
    earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates,
    changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities
    or changes in tax laws. The carrying value of deferred tax
    assets, which are predominantly in the United States, is
    dependent on Penford s ability to generate future taxable
    income in the United States. The amount of income taxes paid is
    subject to the Company s interpretation of applicable tax
    laws in the jurisdictions in which Penford operates. The Company
    is subject to audits by tax authorities. While the Company
    believes it has complied with all applicable income tax laws,
    there can be no assurance that a tax authority will not have a
    different interpretation of the law or that any additional taxes
    imposed as a result of tax audits will not have an adverse
    effect on the Company s results of operations.

Profitability
    is subject to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange
    currency rates.   

In the ordinary course of business, Penford is subject to risks
    associated with changing foreign exchange rates. In fiscal year
    2006, approximately 30% of the Company s revenue was
    denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
    Penford s revenues and results of operations are affected
    by fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar
    and other currencies.

Provisions
    of Washington law could discourage or prevent a potential
    takeover.   

Washington law imposes restrictions on certain transactions
    between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. The
    Washington Business Corporation Act generally prohibits a
     target corporation  from engaging in certain
    significant business transactions with an  acquiring
    person,  which is defined as a person or group of persons
    that beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting securities of
    the target corporation, for a period of five years after such
    acquisition, unless the transaction or acquisition of shares is
    approved by a majority of the members of the target
    corporation s board of directors prior to the time of the
    acquisition. Such prohibited transactions include, among other
    things, (1) a merger or consolidation with, disposition of
    assets to, or issuance or redemption of stock to or from, the
    acquiring person; (2) a termination of 5% or more of the
    employees of the target corporation as a result of the acquiring
    person s acquisition of 10% or more of the shares; and
    (3) allowing the acquiring person to receive any
    disproportionate benefit as a shareholder.

After the five year period, a  significant business
    transaction  may occur if it complies with  fair
    price  provisions specified in the statute. A corporation
    may not  opt out  of this statute. This provision may
    have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of
    control in the ownership of the Company.

The
    Company may not be able to implement ethanol production as
    planned or at all.   

Penford s ability to implement ethanol production as
    planned is subject to uncertainty. The Company recently
    announced this project and a considerable amount of work is only
    in preliminary stages. As of August 31, 2006, the Company
    had not yet secured all necessary permits and had not entered
    into all necessary engineering, construction and procurement
    contracts. The Company has secured $45 million of financing
    for this project which it believes is adequate for completion;
    however, the Company could face financial risks if this amount
    of financing is not sufficient to complete the construction of
    the ethanol facility. The Company may be adversely affected by
    environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and
    liabilities in implementing ethanol production. Changes in the
    markets for ethanol
     and/or 
    legislation and regulations could materially and adversely
    affect ethanol demand.

9

Table of Contents   

Other
    uncertainties   

The Company s consolidated financial statements are
    prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States. These accounting principles
    require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions
    to fairly present results of operations and financial position.
    Management believes that its estimates, judgments and
    assumptions are reasonable based upon information available at
    the time this report was prepared. To the extent there are
    material differences between estimates, judgments and
    assumptions and actual results, the financial statements will be
    affected. See  Critical Accounting Policies  in
    Item 7   Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Item 1B:   Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

Not applicable.

Item 2:   Properties   

Penford s facilities as of August 31, 2006 are as
    follows:

Bldg. Area 

Land Area 

Owned/ 

(Sq. Ft.) 

(Acres) 

Leased 

Function of Facility 

North America:  

Centennial, Colorado

25,200

Leased

Corporate headquarters,
    administrative offices and research laboratories

Cedar Rapids, Iowa

759,000

29

Owned

Manufacture of corn starch
    products, administration offices and research laboratories

Idaho Falls, Idaho

30,000

4

Owned

Manufacture of potato starch
    products

Richland, Washington

45,000

Owned

Manufacture of potato and tapioca
    starch products

9,600

4.9

Leased

Plover, Wisconsin

54,000

10

Owned

Manufacture of potato starch
    products

Australia/New
    Zealand:  

Lane Cove, New South Wales

75,700

7

Owned

Manufacture of corn starch
    products, administrative offices and research laboratories

Tamworth, New South Wales

94,600

6

Owned

Manufacture of wheat starch and
    glutten products

477

Owned

Effluent dispersion

Tamworth, New South Wales

425

Leased

Agricultural and effluent
    dispersion

225

Leased

Agricultural use

Auckland, New Zealand

104,700

5

Owned

Manufacture of corn starch products

3

Leased

Penford s production facilities are strategically located
    near sources of raw materials. The Company believes that its
    facilities are maintained in good condition and that the
    capacities of its plants are sufficient to meet current
    production requirements. The Company invests in expansion,
    improvement and maintenance of property, plant and equipment as
    required.

10

Table of Contents   

Item 3:   Legal
    Proceedings   

In October 2004, Penford Products Co. ( Penford
    Products ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, was
    served with a lawsuit filed by Graphic Packaging International,
    Inc. ( Graphic ) in the Fourth Judicial District
    Court, Ouachita Parish, State of Louisiana. The petition seeks
    monetary damages for alleged breach of contract, negligence and
    tortious misrepresentation. These claims arise out of an alleged
    agreement obligating Penford Products to supply goods to Graphic
    and Penford Products  alleged breach of such agreement,
    together with conduct related to such alleged breach. Penford
    has filed an answer generally denying all liability and has
    countersued for damages. During the fourth quarter of the
    Company s fiscal year 2006, the parties continued to
    conduct discovery. Based upon discovery responses made by
    Graphic, Graphic is seeking damages of approximately
    $3.3 million. Penford is seeking damages of approximately
    $675,000.

The Company is involved in various other claims and litigation
    arising in the normal course of business. In the judgment of
    management, which relies in part on information from Company
    counsel, the ultimate resolution of these actions will not
    materially affect the consolidated financial statements of the
    Company.

Item 4:   Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

No matter was submitted to a vote of shareholders during the
    fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.

11

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5:    

Market
    for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder
    Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

Market
    Information and Holders of Common Stock  

Penford s common stock, $1.00 par value, trades on The
    Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol  PENX.  On
    November 7, 2006, there were 533 shareholders of
    record. The high and low closing prices of Penford s common
    stock during the last two fiscal years are set forth below.

Dividends  

During each quarter of fiscal year 2006 and 2005, the Board of
    Directors declared a $0.06 per share cash dividend. On
    October 31, 2006, the Board of Directors declared a
    dividend of $0.06 per common share payable on
    December 1, 2006 to shareholders of record as of
    November 10, 2006. On a periodic basis, the Board of
    Directors reviews the Company s dividend policy which is
    impacted by Penford s earnings, financial condition, and
    cash and capital requirements. Future dividend payments are at
    the discretion of the Board of Directors. Penford has included
    the payment of dividends in its planning for fiscal 2007.

Item 6:   Selected
    Financial Data   

12

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Includes a pre-tax gain of $1.2 million related to sale of
    land in Australia, a $0.7 million pre-tax gain related to
    the sale of an investment and a $1.1 million pre-tax write
    off of unamortized deferred loan costs. See Note 12 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements. Includes a tax benefit of
    $2.5 million related to 2001 through 2004 that the Company
    recognized in 2005 when the Company determined that it was
    probable that the extraterritorial income exclusion deduction on
    its U.S. federal income tax returns for those years would
    be sustained. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. 

(2)  

Includes pre-tax charges of $1.3 million related to the
    restructuring of business operations and $0.7 million
    related to a pre-tax non-operating expense for the write off of
    unamortized deferred loan costs. See Notes 12 and 14 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(3)  

Includes a pre-tax gain of $1.9 million related to the sale
    of certain assets to National Starch. 

(4)  

Includes pre-tax charges of approximately $1.4 million
    related to a strategic restructuring of business operations and
    $0.5 million related to the write off of Penford s
    2001 investment in an early stage technology company. 

Item 7:    

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations    

Results
    of Operations  

Executive
    Overview    

Penford generates revenues, income and cash flows by developing,
    manufacturing and marketing specialty natural-based ingredient
    systems for industrial and food applications. The Company
    develops and manufactures ingredients with starch as a base
    which provide value-added applications to its customers.
    Penford s starch products are manufactured primarily from
    corn, potatoes, and wheat and are used as binders and coatings
    in paper and food production.

In analyzing business trends, management considers a variety of
    performance and financial measures, including sales revenue
    growth, sales volume growth, gross margins and operating income
    of the Company s business segments. Penford manages its
    business in three segments. The first two, Industrial
    Ingredients and Food Ingredients are broad categories of
    end-market users, served by operations in the United States. The
    third segment is the geographically separate operations in
    Australia and New Zealand. The Australian and New Zealand
    operations are engaged primarily in the food ingredients
    business.

Consolidated fiscal 2006 sales grew 7.3% to $318.4 million
    from $296.8 million a year ago on sales volume increases in
    all business segments and more favorable pricing in the
    Industrial Ingredients business. Gross margin as a percent of
    sales expanded 2.9% from 11.2% last year to 14.1% in fiscal 2006
    primarily due to higher production volumes in each of the
    business units, and higher unit pricing and favorable product
    mix in the Industrial Ingredients segment. The industrial
    business unit contributed $9.5 million of the total
    $11.7 million gain in gross margin with improvements in
    energy usage and corn procurement and recovery from incremental
    strike costs, partially offset by rising unit costs of natural
    gas, chemicals and distribution.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 and the first quarter of
    fiscal 2005, the Company experienced a union strike at its
    Industrial Ingredient s Cedar Rapids manufacturing
    facility. Penford incurred $4.2 and $4.1 million in
    additional production costs for 2004 and 2005, respectively, in
    connection with the strike.

Operating expenses as a percent of sales rose to 9.3% in fiscal
    2006 from 8.9% in fiscal 2005 on $1.0 million of
    stock-based compensation expenses and $2.6 million in
    increased employee costs. Interest expense rose
    $0.3 million in fiscal 2006 to $5.9 million from
    $5.6 million last year due to increased short-term interest
    rates on the Company s revolving line of credit.

The effective tax rate for fiscal 2006, at 20%, is lower than
    the statutory tax rate of 34% due to the tax benefits of foreign
    sales from the United States, lower tax rates on foreign
    earnings and research and development tax credits. The
    Company s tax provision for fiscal 2005 was a tax benefit
    of $4.9 million. Included in this benefit, as more fully
    described below, was a tax benefit of $2.5 million for
    fiscal years 2001 through 2004 which the Company

13

Table of Contents   

recognized in 2005 when the Company determined it was probable
    that the extraterritorial income exclusion deduction on its
    U.S. federal income tax returns for those years would be
    sustained.

In June 2006, the Company announced plans to invest
    $42 million for up to 40 million gallons of ethanol
    production capacity per year at its Cedar Rapids, Iowa facility.
    The Company expects the facility to be producing ethanol by the
    end of calendar 2007. Penford has much of the infrastructure
    within the Cedar Rapids plant to participate in the ethanol
    market with sufficient grain handling, separation processes,
    utilities and logistic capabilities. The existing factory is
    centrally located near rail and ground transport arteries and
    the ethanol facility will occupy available space within the
    existing site footprint. In October 2006, Penford refinanced its
    credit facility and obtained a $45 million capital
    expansion loan commitment maturing December 2012 to finance
    construction of the ethanol plant.

Fiscal
    2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005    

Industrial
    Ingredients   North America  

Industrial ingredients fiscal 2006 sales of $165.9 million
    increased $18.1 million, or 12%, over 2005, primarily
    driven by a volume increase of 9%. More favorable pricing and
    product mix contributed 2% of the sales increase for the year.

Gross margin increased $9.5 million, or 82%, over fiscal
    2005 to $21.2 million, and, as a percent of sales, expanded
    to 12.8% in fiscal 2006 compared to 7.9% a year ago.
    Approximately $8.8 million of the margin growth is due to
    higher unit pricing, favorable product mix and increases in
    manufacturing volumes. Improvements in energy usage of
    $2.6 million, favorable corn procurement of
    $2.2 million and recovery from $4.1 million in
    incremental strike-related costs incurred during fiscal 2005
    also contributed to increased margin. These favorable effects
    were partially offset by increased unit costs of natural gas and
    chemicals of $3.2 million and $3.3 million,
    respectively, as well as $1.2 million in higher
    distribution expenses.

Income from operations increased $9.3 million over last
    year due to the increase in the gross margin. Operating
    expenses, which included $0.2 million in severance costs,
    declined to 5.5% of sales in fiscal 2006, compared to 6.1% of
    sales the prior year. Research and development expenses remained
    comparable to last year at 1.8% of sales.

Food
    Ingredients   North America  

Sales at the Food Ingredients   North America business
    rose 7% over the prior year driven by an 8% volume increase.
    Annual sales volumes in the dairy and protein end markets grew
    42% over last year. Sales of formulations for potato coatings
    and sweeteners increased 7% and 18%, respectively. Revenues from
    nutrition (low-carbohydrate) applications declined by
    $4.6 million in fiscal 2006.

Gross margin as a percent of sales declined by 80 basis
    points in fiscal 2006, due to the decrease in sales of higher
    margin nutrition products and higher chemical and energy costs
    of $0.7 million. Improved plant utilization

14

Table of Contents   

from increased production volumes partially offset the
    unfavorable product mix. Fiscal 2006 operating and research and
    development expenses increased by $0.1 million and declined
    to 12.9% of sales compared to 13.6% in fiscal 2005.

Australia/New
    Zealand Operations  

The Australian business reported sales of $96.1 million in
    fiscal 2006 compared to $96.2 million a year ago. A 3%
    sales volume increase was offset by unfavorable foreign currency
    exchange rates. Sales in local currencies increased 1% as volume
    increases were partially offset by lower unit pricing.

Gross margin expanded to 8.9% of sales in fiscal 2006 from 7.1%
    last year as the Tamworth, Australia facility improved its
    production yields and plant utilization upon completion of a
    reconfiguration of its manufacturing processes in fiscal 2005.
    Lower wheat and New Zealand grain costs also contributed
    $0.6 million to the gross margin improvements.

Operating expenses rose to 5.6% of sales from 4.5% a year ago on
    $0.9 million of employee severance costs incurred during
    fiscal 2006.

Corporate
    Operating Expenses  

Corporate operating expenses increased to $9.4 million in
    fiscal 2006 from $7.6 million in 2005. The Company expensed
    $0.7 million in stock-based compensation costs for
    corporate employees during fiscal 2006 after adoption of
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R,
     Share-Based Payment. . See Note 9 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements. Legal and professional fees
    increased $0.4 million and employee costs, including
    contributions to the Company s defined contribution plan,
    increased $0.5 million.

Fiscal
    2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004    

Industrial
    Ingredients   North America  

Sales in the industrial ingredients business increased
    $4.2 million, or 3%, in 2005 driven by favorable pricing
    and product mix as well as an 18% increase in sales of specialty
    products, partially offset by a 2% decrease in sales volumes.

Gross margin as a percent of sales declined to 7.9% from 10.9%
    in fiscal 2004, reflecting a $2.4 million increase in
    natural gas and other utility costs, a $4.4 million
    increase in the unit cost of chemicals used in the manufacturing
    process, $0.9 million in increased maintenance costs as
    capital projects were deferred during the union strike in the
    first quarter, and increases in distribution and employee
    benefit costs. These adverse effects on gross margin were
    partially offset by improvements in pricing and product mix
    discussed above. The decline in operating income was due to the
    decrease in gross margin. Operating and research and development
    expenses as a percent of sales in 2005 were comparable to 2004.

15

Table of Contents   

In the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company experienced a
    labor strike by union employees at its Cedar Rapids
    manufacturing plant. The strike, which began August 1,
    2004, was settled on October 17, 2004, with the union and
    the Company signing a five-year contract. The Company incurred
    approximately $4.1 million in incremental strike-related
    costs during fiscal 2005 compared to approximately
    $4.2 million of incremental costs in fiscal 2004.

Food
    Ingredients   North America  

Food ingredients fiscal 2005 sales rose 13% over the prior year
    on an 11% volume increase and favorable product mix. Sales
    volumes expanded in the nutrition, dairy and protein product
    categories. Increases in sales of nutrition (low-carbohydrate)
    applications contributed $4.0 million of the total
    $6.1 million annual sales increase.

Gross margin as a percent of sales expanded in fiscal 2005,
    primarily due to the increased sales volumes of higher margin
    nutrition products. Also contributing to the favorable gross
    margin were improved manufacturing yields and plant utilization
    at all of the food ingredient manufacturing facilities. Income
    from operations increased by 47% due to the growth in gross
    margin. Fiscal 2005 operating and research and development
    expenses remained comparable to the prior year and declined to
    13.6% of sales compared to 14.8% in fiscal 2004.

Australia/New
    Zealand Operations  

Annual fiscal 2005 reported sales rose $7.1 million, or 8%,
    in fiscal 2005 to $96.2 million. The strengthening of the
    Australian and New Zealand dollars during the year contributed
    approximately $5.7 million to the total sales increase.
    Sales in local currencies increased 2.7% as a 7% increase in
    volumes was partially offset by continued price competition from
    imported goods.

Gross margin declined to 7.1% of sales in fiscal 2005 from 11.6%
    in the prior year. Approximately one-half of the decrease is due
    to rising global costs of oil-based manufacturing inputs,
    primarily chemicals, freight and energy. The remaining reduction
    in margin is primarily due to lower manufacturing yields and
    plant utilization as the Company reconfigured manufacturing
    processes in its Tamworth, Australia facility. Income from
    operations was also negatively impacted by the same factors
    affecting gross margin.

Corporate
    Operating Expenses  

Corporate operating expenses increased to $7.6 million in
    fiscal 2005 from $5.9 million in 2004, primarily due to a
    $0.9 million increase in professional fees related to the
    initial attestation on internal control over financial reporting
    required by the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, and
    $0.6 million in higher employee costs.

16

Table of Contents   

Non-Operating
    Income (Expense)    

Other non-operating income consists of the following:

In fiscal 2003, the Company exclusively licensed to National
    Starch Corporation ( National Starch ) certain rights
    to its resistant starch patent portfolio for applications in
    human nutrition. Under the terms of the licensing agreement, the
    Company received an initial licensing fee of $2.25 million
    ($1.6 million net of transaction expenses) which is being
    amortized over the life of the royalty agreement. The royalty
    payments are subject to a minimum of $7 million over the
    first five years of the licensing agreement. The Company
    recognized $1.8 million, $1.4 million and
    $2.2 million in income during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively, related to the licensing fee and royalties. The
    Company has recognized $6.6 million in royalty income from
    the inception of the agreement through August 31, 2006.

In 2005 and 2004, the Company refinanced its secured term and
    revolving credit facilities and wrote off $1.1 million and
    $0.7 million, respectively, of unamortized debt issuance
    costs related to these credit agreements. See Note 5 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

In fiscal 2005, Penford sold a parcel of land near its wheat
    starch plant in Tamworth, New South Wales, Australia, that was
    used for disposal of effluent from the Tamworth manufacturing
    process for $1.9 million, and recognized a gain on the sale
    of $1.2 million.

In the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company sold a parcel
    of land suitable only for agricultural purposes in Tamworth, New
    South Wales, Australia to a third-party purchaser for
    $0.7 million. The Company leases back the property from the
    purchaser under two lease terms and arrangements: i) a
    small parcel of land will be leased for 25 years beginning
    August 2006 with annual rent of approximately
    $0.015 million converted to U.S. dollars at the
    Australian dollar exchange rate at August 31, 2006 and
    ii) the majority of land sold will be leased for one year
    beginning August 2006 with annual rental of approximately
    $0.08 million converted to U.S. dollars at the
    Australian dollar exchange rate at August 31, 2006. The
    total gain on the sale was $0.3 million. The gain of
    $0.1 million in excess of the present value of the lease
    payments was recognized during the second quarter of fiscal
    2006. The remaining gain of $0.2 million is being
    recognized proportionally over the terms of the leases discussed
    above.

In fiscal 2005, the Company sold a majority of its investment in
    a small Australian
     start-up 
    company and recognized a $0.7 million pre-tax gain on the
    transaction. In fiscal 2004, the Company sold its investment in
    an early-stage technology company and recognized a gain of
    $0.2 million.

Interest
    expense    

Interest expense was $5.9 million, $5.6 million and
    $4.5 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Interest
    expense rose in fiscal 2006 on higher short-term interest rates
    on the Company s revolving line credit and short-term
    borrowings. The increase in interest expense in 2005 compared to
    2004 is due to an increase in the average interest rate between
    years of 160 basis points.

In September 2005, the Company entered into interest rate swap
    agreements with several banks to fix the interest rates on
    $40 million of U.S. dollar denominated term debt at
    4.18% and on $10 million of U.S. dollar equivalent
    Australian dollar denominated term debt at 5.54%, plus the
    applicable margin under the Company s

17

Table of Contents   

credit agreement. These swap agreements were in place during
    fiscal 2006 and eliminated the interest rate volatility on the
    Company s term debt.

Income
    taxes    

The effective tax rates for 2006, 2005 and 2004 were 20%, 209%
    and 27%, respectively. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2006 is
    lower than the statutory tax rate of 34% due to the tax benefits
    of the extraterritorial income exclusion ( EIE )
    deduction, lower tax rates on foreign earnings and research and
    development tax credits.

The tax benefit recognized for 2005 of $4.9 million
    included a $2.5 million tax benefit relating to the
    Company s incremental EIE deduction on its
    U.S. federal income tax returns for fiscal years 2001
    through 2004. In 2005, the Company determined that it was
    probable that the EIE deduction would be sustained. See
    Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other
    factors impacting the effective tax rate for 2005 were the
    benefits resulting from the 2005 EIE deduction, research and
    development tax credits, and lower foreign tax rates.

The effective tax rate for 2004 was lower than the overall
    U.S. federal statutory rate of 34% primarily due to the tax
    benefits of foreign sales, research and development tax credits,
    and lower foreign tax rates.

In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the
     Act ) was enacted into law. Effective for tax years
    beginning after December 31, 2004 (fiscal 2006 for
    Penford), the Act provides for a special deduction from
    U.S. taxable income equal to a stipulated percentage of a
    U.S. company s qualified income from domestic
    manufacturing activities, as defined, to be phased-in through
    2010. The impact of this deduction on the Company s
    effective tax rate for fiscal 2006 was insignificant. Also, the
    extraterritorial income exclusion deduction, which favorably
    impacts the Company s effective tax rate, will be
    phased-out over a two-year period.

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

The Company s primary sources of short- and long-term
    liquidity are cash flow from operations and its five-year
    revolving line of credit.

Operating
    Activities    

At August 31, 2006, Penford had working capital of
    $32.1 million, and $57.3 million outstanding under its
    credit agreement. Cash flow from operations was
    $11.4 million, $21.1 million and $20.4 million in
    fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The decrease in cash
    flow from operations in fiscal 2006 is due to a change in the
    Company s financing of Australian grain purchases from
    vendor financing to bank financing. See  Financing
    Activities  below for a discussion of the grain facility in
    Australia. Cash flow from operations increased in fiscal 2005 as
    working capital became a source of cash compared with a use in
    2004.

Penford maintains two defined benefit pension plans in the
    U.S. Rising discount rates have decreased the
    Company s underfunded plan status (plan assets compared to
    benefit obligations). Based on the current underfunded status of
    the plans and the actuarial assumptions being used for 2007,
    Penford estimates that it will be required to make minimum
    contributions to the pension plans of $1.1 million during
    fiscal 2007.

Investing
    Activities    

Capital expenditures were $14.9 million, $9.4 million
    and $15.5 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively. Capital expenditures declined in 2005 compared to
    2004 as projects were deferred during the union strike in the
    first quarter of 2005. Penford expects capital expenditures,
    including $35 million in expenditures for the
    Company s ethanol production facility, to be approximately
    $55 million in fiscal 2007.

Financing
    Activities    

Long-term
    Debt   Fiscal 2005 Credit Facility  

On August 22, 2005, Penford entered into a
    $105 million Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
    ( Agreement ) with a group of U.S. and Australian
    banks, which refinanced the Company s previous
    $105 million secured term and revolving credit facilities.
    Under the Agreement, Penford may borrow $50 million in term
    loans

18

Table of Contents   

and $55 million in revolving lines of credit. The Company
    may borrow the Australian dollar equivalent of
    U.S. $10 million in term loans and a maximum of
    U.S. $15 million in an alternative currency, which is
    defined in the Agreement as the Australian dollar or other
    currency approved by the lenders. See Note 5 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Substantially all of Penford s U.S. assets secure the
    credit facility and the Agreement includes, among other things,
    financial covenants with limitations on indebtedness and capital
    expenditures and maintenance of fixed charge and leverage
    ratios. Pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement,
    Penford s borrowing availability was $29.5 million at
    August 31, 2006.

Long-term
    Debt   Fiscal 2007 Credit Facility  

On October 5, 2006, Penford entered into a
    $145 million Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
    (the  2007 Agreement ) among the Company; Harris N.A.;
    LaSalle Bank National Association; Cooperative Centrale
    Raiffeisen-Boorleenbank B.A.,  Rabobank Nederland 
    (New York Branch); U.S. Bank National Association; and the
    Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited.

The 2007 Agreement refinances the Company s previous
    $105 million secured term and revolving credit facilities.
    Under the 2007 Agreement, the Company may borrow
    $40 million in term loans and $60 million in revolving
    lines of credit. The lenders  revolving credit loan
    commitment may be increased under certain conditions. In
    addition, the 2007 Agreement provides the Company with
    $45 million in new capital expansion funds which may be
    used by the Company to finance the construction of its planned
    ethanol production facility in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. The capital
    expansion funds may be borrowed as term loans from time to time
    prior to October 5, 2008.

The final maturity date for the term and revolving loans under
    the 2007 Agreement is December 31, 2011. Beginning on
    December 31, 2006, the Company must repay the term loans in
    twenty equal quarterly installments of $1 million, with the
    remaining amount due at final maturity. The final maturity date
    for the capital expansion loans is December 31, 2012.
    Beginning on December 31, 2008, the Company must repay the
    capital expansion loans in equal quarterly installments of
    $1.25 million through September 30, 2009 and
    $2.5 million thereafter, with the remaining amount due at
    final maturity. Interest rates under the 2007 Agreement are
    based on either the London Interbank Offering Rates
    ( LIBOR ) in Australia or the U.S., or the prime rate,
    depending on the selection of available borrowing options under
    the 2007 Agreement.

The 2007 Agreement provides that the Total Funded Debt Ratio,
    which is computed as funded debt divided by earnings before
    interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (as defined in
    the 2007 Agreement) shall not exceed 3.25 through
    November 30, 2006. Subsequent to November 30, 2006,
    the maximum Total Funded Debt Ratio varies between 3.00 and
    4.50. In addition, the Company must maintain a minimum tangible
    net worth of $65 million, and a Fixed Charge Coverage
    Ratio, as defined in the 2007 Agreement, of not more than 1.50
    in fiscal 2007, 1.25 in fiscal 2008 and 1.50 in fiscal 2009 and
    thereafter. Annual capital expenditures, exclusive of capital
    expenditures incurred in connection with the Company s
    ethanol production facility, are limited to $20 million.

The Company s obligations under the 2007 Agreement are
    secured by substantially all of the Company s
    U.S. assets.

Short-term
    Borrowings  

The Company s short-term borrowings consist of an
    Australian revolving line of credit. On March 1, 2006, the
    Company s Australian subsidiary entered into a
    variable-rate revolving grain inventory financing facility with
    an Australian bank for a maximum of $30.5 million
    U.S. dollars at the exchange rate at August 31, 2006.
    This facility expires on February 28, 2007 and carries an
    effective interest rate equal to the Australian one-month bank
    bill rate ( BBSY ) plus approximately 2%. Payments on
    this facility are due as the grain financed is withdrawn from
    storage. The amount outstanding under this arrangement, which is
    classified as a current liability on the balance sheet, was
    $9.5 million at August 31, 2006. The Company expects
    to renew this financing facility at maturity in February 2007
    under similar terms.

19

Table of Contents   

Dividends  

In fiscal 2006, Penford paid dividends on its common stock of
    $2.1 million at a quarterly rate of $0.06 per share.
    On October 31, 2006, the Board of Directors declared a
    dividend of $0.06 per common share payable on
    December 1, 2006 to shareholders of record as of
    November 10, 2006. On a periodic basis, the Board of
    Directors reviews the Company s dividend policy which is
    impacted by the Company s earnings, financial condition and
    cash and capital requirements. Future dividend payments are at
    the discretion of the Board of Directors. Penford has included
    the continuation of quarterly dividends in its planning for
    fiscal 2007.

Critical
    Accounting Policies  

The Company s consolidated financial statements are
    prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States. These accounting principles
    require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions
    to fairly present results of operations and financial position.
    Management believes that its estimates, judgments and
    assumptions are reasonable based upon information available at
    the time this report was prepared. To the extent there are
    material differences between estimates, judgments and
    assumptions and the actual results, the financial statements
    will be affected.

In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular
    transaction is significantly dictated by generally accepted
    accounting principles and does not require judgment or
    estimates. There are also areas in which management s
    judgments in selecting among available alternatives would not
    produce a materially different result. Management has reviewed
    the accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit
    Committee. The notes to the consolidated financial statements
    contain a summary of the Company s accounting policies. The
    accounting policies that management believes are the most
    important to the financial statements and that require the most
    difficult, subjective and complex judgments include the
    following:

Evaluation of the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable

Hedging activities

Benefit plans

Valuation of goodwill

Self-insurance program

Income taxes

Stock-based compensation

A description of each of these follows:

Evaluation
    of the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
    Receivable    

Management makes judgments about the Company s ability to
    collect outstanding receivables and provide allowances for the
    portion of receivables that the Company may not be able to
    collect. Penford estimates the allowance for uncollectible
    accounts based on historical experience, known troubled
    accounts, industry trends, economic conditions, how recently
    payments have been received, and ongoing credit evaluations of
    its customers. If the estimates do not reflect the
    Company s future ability to collect outstanding invoices,
    Penford may experience losses in excess of the reserves
    established. At August 31, 2006, the allowance for doubtful
    accounts receivable was $0.9 million.

Hedging
    Activities    

Penford uses derivative instruments, primarily futures contacts,
    to reduce exposure to price fluctuations of commodities used in
    the manufacturing processes in the United States. Penford has
    elected to designate substantially all of these activities as
    hedges. This election allows the Company to defer gains and
    losses on those derivative instruments until the underlying
    commodity is used in the production process. To reduce exposure
    to variable short-term interest rates, Penford uses interest
    rate swap agreements.

20

Table of Contents   

The requirements for the designation of hedges are very complex,
    and require judgments and analysis to qualify as hedges as
    defined by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
    Hedging Activities,  as amended
    ( SFAS No. 133 ). These judgments and
    analyses include an assessment that the derivative instruments
    used are effective hedges of the underlying risks. If the
    Company were to fail to meet the requirements of
    SFAS No. 133, or if these derivative instruments are
    not designated as hedges, the Company would be required to mark
    these contracts to market at each reporting date. Penford had
    deferred gains (losses), net of tax of ($272,000) and $282,000
    at August 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which are
    reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income in both
    years.

Benefit
    Plans    

Penford has defined benefit plans for its U.S. employees
    providing retirement benefits and coverage for retiree health
    care. Qualified actuaries determine the estimated cost of these
    plans annually. These actuarial estimates are based on
    assumptions of the discount rate used to calculate the present
    value of future payments, the expected investment return on plan
    assets, the estimate of future increases in compensation rates
    and the estimate of increases in the cost of medical care. The
    Company makes judgments about these assumptions based on
    historical investment results and experience as well as
    available historical market data and trends. However, if these
    assumptions are wrong, it could materially affect the amounts
    reported in the financial statements. Disclosure about these
    estimates and assumptions are included in Note 10 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements. See  Defined Benefit
    Plans  in this Item 7.

Valuation
    of Goodwill    

Penford is required to assess on an annual basis, whether the
    value of goodwill reported on the balance sheet has been
    impaired, or more often if conditions exist that indicate that
    there might be an impairment. These assessments require
    extensive and subjective judgments to assess the fair value of
    goodwill. While the Company engages qualified valuation experts
    to assist in this process, their work is based on the
    Company s estimates of future operating results and
    allocation of goodwill to the business units. If future
    operating results differ materially from the estimates, the
    value of goodwill could be adversely impacted. See Note 4
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Self-insurance
    Program    

The Company maintains a self-insurance program covering portions
    of workers  compensation and group health liability costs.
    The amounts in excess of the self-insured levels are fully
    insured by third party insurers. Liabilities associated with
    these risks are estimated in part by considering historical
    claims experience, severity factors and other actuarial
    assumptions. Projections of future losses are inherently
    uncertain because of the random nature of insurance claims
    occurrences and changes that could occur in actuarial
    assumptions. The financial results of the Company could be
    significantly affected if future claims and assumptions differ
    from those used in determining the liabilities.

Income
    Taxes    

The determination of the Company s provision for income
    taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and
    the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. The
    Company s provision for income taxes reflects a combination
    of income earned and taxed in the various U.S. federal and
    state, as well as Australian and New Zealand taxing
    jurisdictions. Jurisdictional tax law changes, increases or
    decreases in permanent differences between book and tax items,
    accruals or adjustments of accruals for tax contingencies or
    valuation allowances, and the Company s change in the mix
    of earnings from these taxing jurisdictions all affect the
    overall effective tax rate.

In evaluating the exposures connected with the various tax
    filing positions, the Company establishes an accrual, when,
    despite management s belief that the Company s tax
    return positions are supportable, management believes that
    certain positions may be successfully challenged and a loss is
    probable. When facts and circumstances change, these accruals
    are adjusted.

21

Table of Contents   

Stock-Based
    Compensation    

Beginning September 1, 2005, the Company recognizes
    stock-based compensation in accordance with
    SFAS No. 123R,  Share-Based Payment.  Under
    the fair value recognition provisions of this statement,
    share-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date
    based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as
    expense over the requisite service period of the award.
    Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the
    fair value of the share-based awards at the date of grant
    requires judgment, including estimating stock price volatility,
    forfeiture rates, the risk-free interest rate, dividends and
    expected option life.

If circumstances change, and the Company uses different
    assumptions for volatility, interest, dividends and option life
    in estimating the fair value of stock-based awards granted in
    future periods, stock-based compensation expense may differ
    significantly from the expense recorded in the current period.
    SFAS No. 123R requires forfeitures to be estimated at
    the date of grant and revised in subsequent periods if actual
    forfeitures differ from those estimated. Therefore, if actual
    forfeiture rates differ significantly from those estimated, the
    Company s results of operations could be materially
    impacted.

Contractual
    Obligations  

As more fully described in Notes 5 and 8 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is a party to
    various debt and lease agreements at August 31, 2006 that
    contractually commit the Company to pay certain amounts in the
    future. The purchase obligations at August 31, 2006
    represent an estimate of all open purchase orders and
    contractual obligations through the Company s normal course
    of business for commitments to purchase goods and services for
    production and inventory needs, such as raw materials, supplies,
    manufacturing arrangements, capital expenditures and
    maintenance. The majority of terms allow the Company or
    suppliers the option to cancel or adjust the requirements based
    on business needs.

The following table summarizes such contractual commitments:

Defined
    Benefit Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans  

Penford maintains defined benefit pension plans and defined
    benefit postretirement health care plans in the U.S.

The most significant assumptions used to determine benefit
    expense and benefit obligations are the discount rate and the
    expected return on assets assumption. See Note 10 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for the assumptions used by
    Penford.

The discount rate used by the Company in determining benefit
    expense and benefit obligations reflects the yield of high
    quality (AA or better rating by a recognized rating agency)
    corporate bonds whose cash flows are expected to match the
    timing and amounts of projected future benefit payments. Benefit
    obligations and expense increase as the discount rate is
    reduced. The discount rates to determine net periodic expense
    used in 2004 (6.4%), 2005 (6.25%) and 2006 (5.5%) reflect the
    decline in bond yields over the past several years. Lowering the
    discount rate by 0.25% would increase pension expense by
    approximately $0.3 million and other postretirement benefit
    expense by $0.05 million. During fiscal 2006, bond yields
    rose and Penford has increased the discount rate for calculating
    its benefit obligations at August 31, 2006, as well as net
    periodic expense for fiscal 2007, to 6.15%.

The expected long-term return on assets assumption for the
    pension plans represents the average rate of return to be earned
    on plan assets over the period the benefits included in the
    benefit obligation are to be paid. Pension

22

Table of Contents   

expense increases as the expected return on plan assets
    decreases. In developing the expected rate of return, the
    Company considers long-term historical market rates of return as
    well as actual returns on the Company s plan assets, and
    adjusts this information to reflect expected capital market
    trends. Penford also considers forward looking return
    expectations by asset class, the contribution of active
    management and management fees paid by the plans. The plan
    assets are held in qualified trusts and anticipated rates of
    return are not reduced for income taxes. The expected long-term
    return on assets assumption used to calculate net periodic
    pension expense was 8.0% for fiscal 2006. A 0.5% decrease
    (increase) in the expected return on assets assumptions would
    increase (decrease) pension expense by approximately
    $0.2 million based on plan assets at August 31, 2006.
    The expected return on plan assets used in calculating fiscal
    2007 pension expense is 8%.

Unrecognized net loss amounts reflect the difference between
    expected and actual returns on pension plan assets as well as
    the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions. Unrecognized
    net losses in excess of certain thresholds are amortized into
    net periodic pension and postretirement benefit expense over the
    average remaining service life of active employees. As of
    August 31, 2006, unrecognized losses from all sources are
    $5.7 million for the pension plans and $1.2 million
    for the postretirement health care plan. Amortization of
    unrecognized net loss amounts is expected to increase net
    pension expense by approximately $0.2 million in fiscal
    2007. Amortization of unrecognized net losses is not expected to
    impact the net postretirement health care expense in fiscal 2007.

Penford recognized pension expense of $2.4 million,
    $1.9 million and $1.7 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively. Penford expects pension expense to be
    approximately $1.7 million in fiscal 2007. The Company
    contributed $3.3 million, $3.6 million and
    $1.1 million to the pension plans in fiscal 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively. Penford estimates that it will be required
    to make minimum contributions to the pension plans of
    $1.1 million during fiscal 2007.

The Company recognized benefit expense for its postretirement
    health care plan of $1.2 million, $1.0 million and
    $1.4 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
    Penford expects to recognize approximately $1.0 million in
    postretirement health care benefit expense in fiscal 2007. The
    Company contributed $0.7 million, $0.5 million, and
    $0.5 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 to the
    postretirement health care plans and estimates that it will
    contribute $0.7 million in fiscal 2007.

Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and
    various assumptions related to the participants in the defined
    benefit plans will impact future benefit expense and
    liabilities. The Company cannot predict what these changes will
    be.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements  

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    ( FASB ) issued Statement No. 123 (revised 2004),
     Share-Based Payment 
    ( SFAS No. 123R ). SFAS No. 123R,
    which is effective for the first annual period beginning after
    June 15, 2005, requires all share-based payments to
    employees, including grants of stock options, to be recognized
    in the financial statements based on their fair values. In March
    2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107
    ( SAB 107 ) regarding the SEC s
    interpretation of SFAS No. 123R. The Company adopted
    SFAS No. 123R and SAB 107 effective
    September 1, 2005. See Note 9 to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for further detail.

Effective September 1, 2005, the Company adopted FASB
    Statement No. 151,  Inventory Costs   an
    Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4 
    ( SFAS No. 151 ). SFAS No. 151
    clarifies the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility
    expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material, requiring
    that those items be recognized as current-period charges. In
    addition, SFAS No. 151 requires that allocation of
    fixed production overheads be based on the normal capacity of
    the production facilities. The adoption of
    SFAS No. 151 did not have a material effect on the
    Company s results of operation, financial position or
    liquidity.

Effective September 1, 2005, the Company adopted FASB
    Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional
    Asset Retirement Obligations 
    ( FIN No. 47 ), which requires an entity to
    recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset
    retirement obligation when incurred if the liability s fair
    value can be reasonably estimated. The adoption of
    FIN No. 47 had no effect on the Company s results
    of operations, financial position or liquidity.

23

Table of Contents   

In June 2006, the FASB ratified the Emerging Issues Task Force
    ( EITF ) consensus on EIFT Issue
     No. 06-2, 
     Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits
    Pursuant to FASB Statement No. 43.  EITF Issue
     No. 06-2 
    requires companies to accrue the costs of compensated absences
    under a sabbatical or similar benefit arrangement over the
    requisite service period. EITF Issue
     No. 06-2 
    is effective for years beginning after December 15, 2006.
    The Company is evaluating the impact this issue may have on its
    results of operations, financial position and cash flows.

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an
    interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109
    ( FIN 48 ). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting
    for the uncertainty in income taxes recognized by prescribing a
    recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet
    before being recognized in the financial statements. It also
    provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and
    penalties, interim period accounting and disclosure. FIN 48
    is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
    2006. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact
    that the adoption of FIN 48 will have on its consolidated
    financial statements.

Item 7A:    

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Market
    Risk Sensitive Instruments and Positions   

Penford is exposed to market risks that are inherent in the
    financial instruments that are used in the normal course of
    business. Penford may use various hedge instruments to manage or
    reduce market risk, but the Company does not use derivative
    financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. The
    primary market risks are discussed below.

Interest
    Rate Risk   

The Company s exposure to market risk for changes in
    interest rates relates to its variable-rate borrowings. At
    August 31, 2006, $20.7 million of the Company s
    debt, including amounts outstanding under the Australian grain
    inventory financing facility, carried variable interest rates,
    which are generally set for one to six months. The market risk
    associated with a 1% adverse change in interest rates at
    August 31, 2006, is approximately $0.2 million.

In September 2005, the Company entered into interest rate swap
    agreements with several banks to fix the interest rates on
    $40 million of U.S. dollar denominated term debt at
    4.18% and on $10 million of U.S. dollar equivalent
    Australian dollar denominated term debt at 5.54%, plus the
    applicable margin under the Company s credit agreement.

Foreign
    Currency Exchange Rates   

The Company has
     U.S.-Australian 
    and Australian-New Zealand dollar currency exchange rate risks
    due to revenues and costs denominated in Australian and New
    Zealand dollars with the Company s foreign operation,
    Penford Australia. Currently, cash generated by Penford
    Australia s operations is used for capital investment in
    Australia and payment of debt denominated in Australian dollars.
    At August 31, 2006, approximately 31% of total debt was
    denominated in Australian dollars.

The Company has not maintained any derivative instruments to
    mitigate the
     U.S.-Australian 
    dollar currency exchange translation exposure. This position is
    reviewed periodically, and based on the Company s review,
    may result in the incorporation of derivative instruments in the
    Company s hedging strategy. The currency exchange rate risk
    between Penford s Australian and New Zealand operations is
    not significant. For the year ended August 31, 2006, a 10%
    change in the foreign currency exchange rates compared with the
    U.S. dollar would have impacted fiscal 2006 reported net
    income by approximately $0.1 million.

From time to time, Penford enters into foreign exchange forward
    contracts to manage exposure to receivables and payables
    denominated in currencies different from the functional
    currencies of the selling entities. As of August 31, 2006,
    Penford did not have any foreign exchange forward contracts
    outstanding. At that date, the Company had U.S. dollar
    denominated trade receivables of $0.6 million at Penford
    Australia.

24

Table of Contents   

Commodities   

The availability and price of corn, Penford s most
    significant raw material, is subject to fluctuations due to
    unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, domestic and
    foreign governmental farm programs and policies, changes in
    global demand and the worldwide production of corn. To reduce
    the price risk caused by market fluctuations, Penford generally
    follows a policy of using exchange-traded futures and options
    contracts to hedge exposure to corn price fluctuations in North
    America. These futures and options contracts are designated as
    hedges. The changes in market value of these contracts have
    historically been, and are expected to continue to be, highly
    effective in offsetting the price changes in corn. A majority of
    the Company s sales contracts for corn-based industrial
    starch ingredients contain a pricing methodology which allows
    the Company to pass-through the majority of the changes in the
    commodity price of corn and corn by-products.

Penford s net corn position in the U.S. consists
    primarily of inventories, purchase contracts and exchange traded
    futures and options contracts that hedge Penford s exposure
    to commodity price fluctuations. The fair value of the position
    is based on quoted market prices. The Company has estimated its
    market risk as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a
    hypothetical 10% adverse change in prices. As of August 31,
    2006 and 2005, the fair value of the Company s net corn
    position was approximately $0.02 million and
    $0.2 million, respectively. The market risk associated with
    a 10% adverse change in corn prices at August 31, 2006 and
    2005, is estimated at $2,000 and $19,000, respectively.

Over the past years, prices for natural gas have increased over
    historic levels. Prices for natural gas fluctuate due to
    anticipated changes in supply and demand and movement of prices
    of related or alternative fuels. To reduce the price risk caused
    by sudden market fluctuations, Penford generally enters into
    short-term purchase contracts or uses exchange-traded futures
    and options contracts to hedge exposure to natural gas price
    fluctuations. These futures and options contracts are designated
    as hedges. The changes in market value of these contracts have
    historically been, and are expected to continue to be, closely
    correlated with the price changes in natural gas.

Penford s exchange traded futures and options contracts
    hedge production requirements. The fair value of these contracts
    is based on quoted market prices. The Company has estimated its
    market risk as the potential loss in fair value resulting from a
    hypothetical 10% adverse change in prices. As of August 31,
    2006 and 2005, the fair value of the natural gas exchange-traded
    futures and options contracts was a loss of approximately
    $0.3 million and a gain of approximately $0.9 million,
    respectively. The market risk associated with a 10% adverse
    change in natural gas prices at August 31, 2006 and 2005 is
    estimated at $27,000 and $90,000, respectively.

25

Table of Contents   

Item 8:   Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

Page 

Consolidated
    Balance Sheets  

27

Consolidated
    Statements of Operations  

28

Consolidated
    Statements of Comprehensive Income  

28

Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows  

29

Consolidated
    Statements of Shareholders  Equity  

30

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements  

31

Report of
    Management on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting  

55

Reports of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

56

26

Table of Contents   

Consolidated
    Balance Sheets  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

27

Table of Contents   

Consolidated
    Statements of Operations  

Consolidated
    Statements of Comprehensive Income  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

28

Table of Contents   

Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

29

Table of Contents   

Consolidated
    Statements of Shareholders  Equity  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

30

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Note 1  
    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  

Business   

Penford Corporation ( Penford  or the
     Company ) is a developer, manufacturer and marketer
    of specialty natural-based ingredient systems for industrial and
    food ingredient applications. The Company operates manufacturing
    facilities in the United States, Australia and New Zealand.
    Penford s products provide binding and film-forming
    characteristics that improve customer s products through
    convenient and cost-effective solutions made from renewable
    sources. Sales of the Company s products are generated
    using a combination of direct sales and distributor agreements.

The Company has extensive research and development capabilities,
    which are used in understanding the complex chemistry of
    carbohydrate-based materials and in developing applications to
    address customer needs. In addition, the Company has specialty
    processing capabilities for a variety of modified starches.

Penford manages its business in three segments. The first two,
    industrial ingredients and food ingredients are broad categories
    of end-market users, primarily served by the
    U.S. operations. The third segment is the geographically
    separate operations in Australia and New Zealand. The Australian
    and New Zealand operations are engaged primarily in the food
    ingredients business.

Basis
    of Presentation   

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
    accounts of Penford and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All
    material intercompany balances and transactions have been
    eliminated. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior
    years  financial statements in order to conform with the
    current year presentation.

Use of
    Estimates   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America requires management to make estimates and assumptions
    that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at
    the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts
    of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Estimates
    are used in accounting for, among other things, the allowance
    for doubtful accounts, accruals, the determination of
    assumptions for pension and postretirement employee benefit
    costs, and the useful lives of property and equipment. Actual
    results may differ from previously estimated amounts.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents   

Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and temporary
    investments with maturities of less than three months when
    purchased. Amounts are reported in the balance sheets at cost,
    which approximates fair value.

Allowance
    for Doubtful Accounts and Concentration of Credit
    Risk   

The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects the Company s
    best estimate of probable losses in the accounts receivable
    balances. Penford estimates the allowance for uncollectible
    accounts based on historical experience, known troubled
    accounts, industry trends, economic conditions, how recently
    payments have been received, and ongoing credit evaluations of
    its customers. Activity in the allowance for doubtful accounts
    for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 is as follows (Dollars in
    thousands):

31

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

In 2006, the increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts
    reflects an additional reserve of approximately
    $0.5 million for a bankrupt customer in the industrial
    ingredients segment.

Approximately half of the Company s sales in fiscal 2006,
    2005 and 2004 were made to customers who operate in the North
    American paper industry. This industry has suffered an economic
    downturn, which has resulted in the closure of a number of
    smaller mills. In fiscal 2004, the Industrial
    Ingredients   North America business wrote off
    receivable amounts which became uncollectible primarily due to
    bankruptcies in the paper industry.

Financial
    Instruments   

The carrying value of financial instruments including cash and
    cash equivalents, receivables, payables and accrued liabilities
    approximates fair value because of their short maturities. The
    Company s bank debt reprices with changes in market
    interest rates and, accordingly, the carrying amount of such
    debt approximates fair value.

Inventories   

Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market. Inventory is
    valued using the
     first-in, 
    first-out ( FIFO ) method, which approximates actual
    cost. Capitalized costs include materials, labor and
    manufacturing overhead related to the purchase and production of
    inventories.

Goodwill
    and Other Intangible Assets   

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    ( SFAS ) No. 142,  Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets,  goodwill is not amortized, but instead
    is tested for impairment at least annually, or more frequently
    if there is an indication of impairment.

Patents are amortized using the straight-line method over their
    estimated period of benefit. At August 31, 2006, the
    weighted average remaining amortization period for patents is
    eight years. Intangible pension assets are not amortized.
    Penford has no intangible assets with indefinite lives.

Property,
    Plant and Equipment   

Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Expenditures
    for maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. The
    Company uses the straight-line method to compute depreciation
    expense assuming average useful lives of three to forty years
    for financial reporting purposes. Depreciation of $15,527,000,
    $16,326,000 and $16,990,000 was recorded in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively. For income tax purposes, the Company generally
    uses accelerated depreciation methods.

Interest is capitalized on major construction projects while in
    progress. No interest was capitalized in 2006, 2005 and 2004.

Income
    Taxes   

The provision for income taxes includes federal, state, and
    foreign taxes currently payable and deferred income taxes
    arising from temporary differences between financial and income
    tax reporting methods. Deferred taxes are recorded using the
    liability method in recognition of these temporary differences.
    Deferred taxes are not recognized on temporary differences from
    undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries of approximately
    $14.6 million, as these earnings are deemed to be
    permanently reinvested. The amount of unrecognized deferred tax
    liability associated with these temporary differences is
    approximately $5.4 million.

Revenue
    Recognition   

Revenue from sales of products and shipping and handling revenue
    are recognized at the time goods are shipped, and title
    transfers to the customer. Costs associated with shipping and
    handling is included in cost of sales.

32

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Research
    and Development   

Research and development costs are expensed as incurred, except
    for costs of patents, which are capitalized and amortized over
    the life of the patents. Research and development costs expensed
    were $6.2 million, $5.8 million and $6.1 million
    in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Patent costs of
    $134,000, $19,000 and $39,000 were capitalized in 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively.

Foreign
    Currency Translation   

Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional currency
    is deemed to be other than the U.S. dollar are translated
    at year end rates of exchange. Resulting translation adjustments
    are accumulated in the currency translation adjustments
    component of other comprehensive income. Income statement
    amounts are translated at average exchange rates prevailing
    during the year. For fiscal years 2006 and 2005, the net foreign
    currency transaction gain (loss) recognized in earnings was not
    material.

Derivatives   

Penford uses derivative instruments to manage the exposures
    associated with commodity prices, interest rates and energy
    costs. The derivative instruments are
     marked-to-market 
    and any resulting unrealized gains and losses, representing the
    fair value of the derivative instruments, are recorded in other
    current assets or accounts payable in the consolidated balance
    sheets. The fair value of derivative instruments included in
    other current assets at August 31, 2006 was
    $1.0 million.

For derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges, the
    gain or loss on the derivative instruments as well as the
    offsetting loss or gain on the hedged firm commitments are
    recognized in current earnings as a component of cost of goods
    sold. At August 31, 2006, derivative instruments designated
    as fair value hedges are not material. For derivative
    instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the effective
    portion of the gain or loss on the derivative instruments is
    reported as a component of other comprehensive income, net of
    applicable income taxes, and recognized in earnings when the
    hedged exposure affects earnings. The Company recognizes the
    gain or loss on the derivative instrument as a component of cost
    of goods sold in the period when the finished goods produced
    from the hedged item are sold or, for interest rate swaps, as a
    component of interest expense in the period the forecasted
    transaction is reported in earnings. If it is determined that
    the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at
    offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the
    changes in market value would be recognized in current earnings
    as a component of cost of good sold or interest expense. There
    was no ineffectiveness related to the Company s hedging
    activities related to interest rate swaps. At August 31,
    2006, the amount in other comprehensive income related to
    derivative transactions which the Company expects to recognize
    in earnings in fiscal 2007 is not material.

Significant
    Customer and Export Sales   

The Company has several relatively large customers in each
    business segment. However, over the last three years Penford had
    no customers that exceeded 10% of sales. Export sales accounted
    for approximately 13%, 16% and 19% of consolidated sales in
    fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Stock-Based
    Compensation   

Beginning September 1, 2005, the Company recognizes
    stock-based compensation in accordance with
    SFAS No. 123R,  Share-Based Payment.  The
    Company utilizes the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to
    determine the fair value of stock options on the date of grant.
    This model derives the fair value of stock options based on
    certain assumptions related to expected stock price volatility,
    expected option life, risk-free interest rate and dividend
    yield. See Note 9 for further detail.

33

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements   

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    ( FASB ) issued Statement No. 123 (revised 2004),
     Share-Based Payment 
    ( SFAS No. 123R ). SFAS No. 123R,
    which is effective for the first annual period beginning after
    June 15, 2005, requires all share-based payments to
    employees, including grants of stock options, to be recognized
    in the financial statements based on their fair values. In March
    2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107
    ( SAB 107 ) regarding the SEC s
    interpretation of SFAS No. 123R. The Company adopted
    SFAS No. 123R and SAB 107 effective
    September 1, 2005. See Note 9 for further detail.

Effective September 1, 2005, the Company adopted FASB
    Statement No. 151,  Inventory Costs   an
    Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4 
    ( SFAS No. 151 ). SFAS No. 151
    clarifies the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility
    expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material, requiring
    that those items be recognized as current-period charges. In
    addition, SFAS No. 151 requires that allocation of
    fixed production overheads be based on the normal capacity of
    the production facilities. The adoption of
    SFAS No. 151 did not have a material effect on the
    Company s results of operation, financial position or
    liquidity.

Effective September 1, 2005, the Company adopted FASB
    Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional
    Asset Retirement Obligations 
    ( FIN No. 47 ), which requires an entity to
    recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset
    retirement obligation when incurred if the liability s fair
    value can be reasonably estimated. The adoption of
    FIN No. 47 had no effect on the Company s results
    of operations, financial position or liquidity.

In June 2006, the FASB ratified the Emerging Issues Task Force
    ( EITF ) consensus on EITF Issue
     No. 06-2, 
     Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits
    Pursuant to FASB Statement No. 43.  EITF Issue
     No. 06-2 
    requires companies to accrue the costs of compensated absences
    under a sabbatical or similar benefit arrangement over the
    requisite service period. EITF Issue
     No. 06-2 
    is effective for years beginning after December 15, 2006.
    The Company is evaluating the impact this issue may have on its
    results of operations, financial position and cash flows.

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an
    interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 
    ( FIN 48 ). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting
    for the uncertainty in income taxes recognized by prescribing a
    recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet
    before being recognized in the financial statements. It also
    provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and
    penalties, interim period accounting and disclosure. FIN 48
    is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
    2006. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact
    that the adoption of FIN 48 will have on its consolidated
    financial statements.

Note 2  
    Inventories  

Components of inventory are as follows:

To reduce the price volatility of corn used in fulfilling some
    of its starch sales contracts, Penford, from time to time, uses
    readily marketable exchange-traded futures as well as forward
    cash corn purchases. The exchange-traded futures are not
    purchased or sold for trading or speculative purposes and are
    designated as hedges. The changes in market value of such
    contracts have historically been, and are expected to continue
    to be, effective in offsetting the price changes of the hedged
    commodity. Penford also at times uses exchange-traded futures to
    hedge corn inventories. Hedges are designated as cash flow
    hedges at the time the transaction is established and are
    recognized

34

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

in earnings in the time period for which the hedge was
    established. Hedged transactions are within 12 months of
    the time the hedge is established. The amount of ineffectiveness
    related to the Company s hedging activities was not
    material.

Note 3  
    Property and equipment  

Components of property and equipment are as follows:

The above table includes approximately $0.1 million of
    equipment under capital leases for both years. Changes in
    Australian and New Zealand currency exchange rates have
    increased net property, plant and equipment in fiscal 2006 by
    approximately $0.9 million.

Note 4  
    Goodwill and other intangible assets  

Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition costs over the
    fair value of the net assets of Penford Australia, which was
    acquired on September 29, 2000. The Company evaluates
    annually, or more frequently if certain indicators are present,
    the carrying value of its goodwill under provisions of
    SFAS No. 142.

In accordance with this standard, Penford does not amortize
    goodwill. The Company completed the annual update as of
    June 1, 2006 and determined there was no impairment to the
    recorded value of goodwill. In order to identify potential
    impairments, Penford compared the fair value of each of its
    reporting units with its carrying amount, including goodwill.
    Penford then compared the implied fair value of its reporting
    units  goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.
    The implied fair value of the reporting units was determined
    using primarily discounted cash flows. This testing was
    performed on Penford s Food Ingredients   North
    America and the Australia/New Zealand operations reporting
    units, which are the same as two of the Company s business
    segments. Since there was no indication of impairment, Penford
    was not required to complete the second step of the process
    which would measure the amount of any impairment. On a
    prospective basis, the Company is required to continue to test
    its goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more
    frequently if certain indicators arise.

The Company s goodwill of $21.9 million and
    $21.4 million at August 31, 2006 and 2005
    respectively, represents the excess of acquisition costs over
    the fair value of the net assets of Penford Australia. The
    increase in the carrying value of goodwill since August 31,
    2005 reflects the impact of exchange rate fluctuations between
    the Australian and U.S. dollar on the translation of this
    asset.

Penford s intangible assets consist of patents which are
    being amortized over the weighted average remaining amortization
    period of eight years as of August 31, 2006 and an
    intangible pension asset. There is no residual value

35

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

associated with patents. The carrying amount and accumulated
    amortization of intangible assets are as follows (Dollars in
    thousands):

Amortization expense related to intangible assets was
    $0.1 million in each of 2006, 2005 and 2004. The estimated
    aggregate annual amortization expense for patents is
    approximately $0.1 million for each of the next five fiscal
    years,
     2007-2011 

Note 5  
    Debt  

On August 22, 2005, Penford entered into a
    $105 million Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. This
    agreement refinances the previous secured term and revolving
    credit facilities. Under the agreement, the Company may borrow
    $50 million in term loans and $55 million in revolving
    lines of credit. The Company may borrow the Australian dollar
    equivalent of U.S. $10 million in term loans and a
    maximum of U.S. $15 million in an alternative
    currency, which is defined in the Agreement as the Australian
    dollar or other currency approved by the lenders. The revolving
    lines of credit and term loans expire on August 22, 2010.
    Interest rates under the credit facility are based on either the
    London Interbank Offering Rates ( LIBOR ) in Australia
    or the U.S., or the prime rate, depending on the selection of
    available borrowing options under the Agreement.

Substantially all of Penford s U.S. assets secure the
    credit facility and the credit agreement includes, among other
    things, financial covenants with limitations on indebtedness and
    capital expenditures and maintenance of fixed charge and
    leverage ratios. Penford was in compliance with the credit
    agreement covenants at August 31, 2006. Pursuant to the
    terms of the credit agreement, Penford s borrowing
    availability was $29.5 million at August 31, 2006.

On October 5, 2006, Penford Corporation (the
     Company ) entered into a $145 million Second
    Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. The Agreement refinances
    the Company s previous $105 million secured term and
    revolving credit facilities. See Note 19 for further
    details.

36

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

At August 31, 2006, the Company had $11.2 million and
    $46.1 million outstanding, respectively, under the
    revolving credit and term loan portions of its $105 million
    credit facility. As of August 31, 2006, approximately
    $20.7 million of the Company s outstanding debt,
    including amounts outstanding under the Australian grain
    inventory financing facility, is subject to variable interest
    rates. Under interest rate swap agreements with several banks,
    the Company s fixed rate debt is $36.8 million of
    U.S. dollar denominated term debt at 4.18% and
    $9.3 million of U.S. dollar equivalent Australian
    dollar denominated term debt at 5.58%, plus the applicable
    margin under the Company s credit agreement.

The Company s short-term borrowings consist of an
    Australian revolving line of credit. On March 1, 2006, the
    Company s Australian subsidiary entered into a
    variable-rate revolving grain inventory financing facility with
    an Australian bank for a maximum of $30.5 million
    U.S. dollars at the exchange rate at August 31, 2006.
    This facility expires on February 28, 2007 and carries an
    effective interest rate equal to the Australian one-month bank
    bill rate ( BBSY ) plus approximately 2%. Payments on
    this facility are due as the grain financed is withdrawn from
    storage. The amount outstanding under this arrangement, which is
    classified as a current liability on the balance sheet, was
    $9.5 million at August 31, 2006.

As of August 31, 2006, Penford borrowed $46.1 million
    in term loans, of which $9.3 million U.S. dollar
    equivalent was denominated in Australian dollars, and the
    Company borrowed $11.2 million on its revolving lines of
    credit, of which $2.1 million U.S. dollar equivalent
    was denominated in Australian dollars. The maturities of debt
    existing at August 31, 2006 for the fiscal years beginning
    with fiscal 2007 are as follows (dollars in thousands):

Included in the Company s long term debt at August 31,
    2006 is $145,000 of capital lease obligations, of which $45,000
    is considered current portion of long term debt. See Note 8.

Note 6  
    Stockholders  Equity  

Common
    Stock   

Common
    Stock Purchase Rights   

On June 16, 1988, Penford distributed a dividend of one
    right ( Right ) for each outstanding share of Penford
    common stock. The Rights will become exercisable if a purchaser
    acquires 15% of Penford s common stock or makes an offer to
    acquire common stock. In the event that a purchaser acquires 15%
    of the common stock of Penford, each Right shall entitle the
    holder, other than the acquirer, to purchase one share of common
    stock of Penford at a price of $100. In the event that Penford
    is acquired in a merger or transfers 50% or more of its assets
    or

37

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

earnings to any one entity, each Right entitles the holder to
    purchase common stock of the surviving or purchasing company
    having a market value of twice the exercise price of the Right.
    The Rights may be redeemed by Penford at a price of
    $0.01 per Right and expire on June 16, 2008.

Note 7  
    Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

The components of other comprehensive income (loss) are as
    follows:

The earnings associated with the Company s investment in
    Penford Australia are considered to be permanently invested and
    no provision for U.S. income taxes on the related
    translation adjustment has been provided.

Note 8  
    Leases  

Certain of the Company s property, plant and equipment is
    leased under operating leases ranging from one to fifteen years
    with renewal options. Rental expense under operating leases was
    $6.3 million, $5.4 million and $5.2 million in
    2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Future minimum lease payments
    for fiscal years beginning with the fiscal year ending
    August 31, 2006 for noncancelable operating and capital
    leases having initial lease terms of more than one year are as
    follows (dollars in thousands):

Note 9  
    Stock-based Compensation Plans  

On January 24, 2006, the shareholders approved the Penford
    Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  2006
    Incentive Plan ) pursuant to which various stock-based
    awards may be granted to employees, directors and consultants.
    Prior to the approval of the 2006 Incentive Plan, the Company
    awarded stock options to employees and officers through the
    Penford Corporation 1994 Stock Option Plan (the  1994
    Plan ) and to members of its Board under the Stock Option
    Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the  Directors 
    Plan ). The 1994 Plan was suspended when the 2006 Plan
    became effective. The Directors  Plan expired in August
    2005. As of August 31, 2006, the aggregate number of shares
    of the Company s common stock that may be issued as awards
    under the 2006 Incentive Plan is 789,476. In addition, any
    shares previously granted under the 1994 Plan which are
    subsequently forfeited or not exercised will be available for
    future grants under the 2006 Incentive Plan.

38

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Non-qualified stock options granted under the 1994 Plan
    generally vest ratably over four years and expire ten years from
    the date of grant. Non-qualified stock options granted under the
    2006 Incentive Plan generally vest ratably over four years and
    expire seven years from the date of grant. Non-qualified options
    granted under the Directors  Plan were granted at 75% of
    the fair market value of the Company s common stock on the
    date of grant. Options granted under the Directors  Plan
    vested six months after the grant date and expire at the earlier
    of ten years after the date of grant or three years after the
    date the non-employee director ceases to be a member of the
    Board.

General
    Option Information   

A summary of the stock option activity for the three years ended
    are as follows:

The aggregate intrinsic value disclosed in the table above
    represents the total pretax intrinsic value, based on the
    Company s closing stock price of $15.64 as of
    August 31, 2006 that would have been received by the option
    holders had all option holders exercised on that date. The
    intrinsic value of options exercised during fiscal years 2006,
    2005 and 2004 was $274,700, $327,400 and $763,300, respectively.

The weighted average grant date fair value of stock options
    granted under the 2006 Incentive Plan during fiscal year 2006
    was $7.18 and under the 1994 Plan during fiscal years 2006, 2005
    and 2004 was $6.01, $7.71 and $7.82, respectively. The weighted
    average grant date fair value of stock options granted under the
    Directors  Plan during fiscal 2005 and 2004 was $10.30 and
    $6.82, respectively. There were no options granted to directors
    during fiscal 2006 and options granted to directors during
    fiscal 2005 were cancelled in fiscal 2005 in exchange for cash
    because of certain changes in the tax laws.

39

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

As of August 31, 2006, the Company had $1.7 million of
    unrecognized compensation costs related to non-vested stock
    option awards that is expected to be recognized over a weighted
    average period of 1.6 years.

The following table summarizes information concerning
    outstanding and exercisable options as of August 31, 2006:

Adoption
    of SFAS No. 123R   

On September 1, 2005, the Company adopted
    SFAS No. 123R which requires the measurement and
    recognition of compensation cost for all share-based payment
    awards made to employees and directors based on estimated fair
    values.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the Company
    accounted for its stock-based employee compensation related to
    stock options under the intrinsic value recognition and
    measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25,
     Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  and the
    disclosure alternative prescribed by SFAS No. 123,
     Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  as amended
    by SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation   Transition and Disclosure. 
    Accordingly, the Company presented pro forma information for the
    periods prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R and no
    compensation cost was recognized for the stock-based
    compensation plans other than the grant date intrinsic value for
    the options granted under the Directors  Plan and
    restricted stock awards prior to September 1, 2005.

The Company has elected to use the modified prospective
    transition method for adopting SFAS No. 123R which
    requires the recognition of stock-based compensation cost on a
    prospective basis; therefore, prior period financial statements
    have not been restated. Under this method, the provisions of
    SFAS No. 123R are applied to all awards granted after
    the adoption date and to awards not yet vested with unrecognized
    expense at the adoption date based on the estimated fair value
    at grant date as determined under the original provisions of
    SFAS No. 123. Pursuant to the requirements of
    SFAS No. 123R, the Company will continue to present
    the pro forma information for periods prior to the adoption date.

Valuation
    and Assumptions   

The Company utilizes the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to
    determine the fair value of stock options on the date of grant.
    This model derives the fair value of stock options based on
    certain assumptions related to expected stock price volatility,
    expected option life, risk-free interest rate and dividend
    yield. The Company s expected volatility is based on the
    historical volatility of the Company s stock price over the
    most recent period commensurate with the expected term of the
    stock option award. The estimated expected option life is based
    primarily on historical employee exercise patterns and considers
    whether and the extent to which the options are
     in-the-money. 
    The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon the
    U.S. Treasury yield curve appropriate for the term of the
    Company s stock options awards and the selected dividend
    yield assumption was determined in view of the Company s
    historical and estimated dividend payout. The Company has no
    reason to believe that the expected volatility of its stock
    price or its option exercise patterns would differ significantly
    from historical volatility or option exercises.

40

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The fair value of the options was estimated on the date of grant
    using the following assumptions for each stock option plan
    during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004.

There were no stock options granted under the Directors 
    Plan in fiscal 2006 and options granted to directors in fiscal
    2005 were cancelled in exchange for cash because of changes in
    the tax laws.

SFAS No. 123R   

The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense
    utilizing the accelerated multiple option approach over the
    requisite service period, which equals the vesting period. For
    fiscal year 2006, the Company recognized $1.1 million in
    stock-based compensation costs. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, the
    Company recognized $42,000, $42,000 and $93,000, respectively,
    of stock-based compensation cost related to Director s
    discounted stock options and restricted stock awards. The
    following table summarizes the stock-based compensation cost
    under SFAS No. 123R for fiscal year 2006 and the
    effect on the Company s Condensed Consolidated Statements
    of Operations (in thousands):

See Note 16 for stock-based compensation costs recognized
    in the financial statements of each business segment.

41

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Pro-forma
    Information under SFAS 123 for Periods Prior to Fiscal
    2006   

If the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 had
    been applied to stock-based compensation for fiscal years 2005
    and 2004, the Company s pro forma net income and basic and
    diluted earnings per share would have been as follows:

Restricted
    Stock   

Non-employee directors receive restricted stock under the 1993
    Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Plan, which provides that
    beginning September 1, 1993 and every three years
    thereafter, each non-employee director shall receive $18,000
    worth of common stock of the Company, based on the last reported
    sale price of the stock on the preceding trading day. One-third
    of the shares vest on each anniversary of the date of the award.
    The Company recognizes compensation cost for restricted stock
    ratably over the vesting period. On September 1, 2005,
    8,694 shares of restricted common stock of the Company, all
    of which were unvested at August 31, 2006, were granted to
    the non-employee directors.

Note 10  
    Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits  

Penford maintains two noncontributory defined benefit pension
    plans that cover substantially all North American employees and
    retirees.

The Company also maintains a postretirement health care benefit
    plan covering its North American bargaining unit hourly retirees.

42

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Obligations
    and Funded Status   

The following represents information summarizing the
    Company s pension and other postretirement benefit plans. A
    measurement date of August 31, 2006 was used for all plans.

Selected information related to the Company s defined
    benefit pension plans that have benefit obligations in excess of
    fair value of plan assets is presented below (Dollars in
    thousands):

43

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

At August 31, 2006, the Company recorded a reduction to
    minimum pension liability of $4,371,000 to reflect the excess of
    the fair value of plan assets over the accumulated benefit
    obligations. This charge is reflected in other comprehensive
    income, net of tax.

Effective August 1, 2004, the Company s postretirement
    health care benefit plan covering bargaining unit hourly
    employees was closed to new entrants and to any current employee
    who did not meet minimum requirements as to age plus years of
    service.

The defined benefit pension plans for salary and hourly
    employees were closed to new participants effective
    January 1, 2005 and August 1, 2004, respectively.

Net
    Periodic Benefit Cost   

Assumptions   

The Company assesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular
    basis. Assumptions used in determining plan information are as
    follows:

The expected long-term return on assets assumption for the
    pension plans represents the average rate of return to be earned
    on plan assets over the period the benefits included in the
    benefit obligation are to be paid. In developing the expected
    rate of return, the Company considers long-term historical
    market rates of return as well as actual returns on the
    Company s plan assets, and adjusts this information to
    reflect expected capital market trends.

44

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Penford also considers forward looking return expectations by
    asset class, the contribution of active management and
    management fees paid by the plans. The plan assets are held in
    qualified trusts and anticipated rates of return are not reduced
    for income taxes. The expected long-term return on assets
    assumption used to calculate net periodic pension expense was
    8.0% for fiscal 2006. A 0.5% decrease (increase) in the expected
    return on assets assumptions would increase (decrease) pension
    expense by approximately $0.2 million based on the assets
    of the plans at August 31, 2006. The expected return on
    plan assets to be used in calculating fiscal 2007 pension
    expense is 8%.

The discount rate used by the Company in determining pension
    expense and pension obligations reflects the yield of high
    quality (AA or better rating by a recognized rating agency)
    corporate bonds whose cash flows are expected to match the
    timing and amounts of projected future benefit payments. The
    discount rates to determine net periodic expense used in 2004
    (6.4%), 2005 (6.25%) and 2006 (5.50%) reflect the decline in
    bond yields over the last several years. During fiscal 2006,
    bond yields rose and Penford has increased the discount rate for
    calculating its benefit obligations at August 31, 2006, as
    well as net periodic expense for fiscal 2007, to 6.15%. Lowering
    the discount rate by 0.25% would increase pension expense by
    approximately $0.3 million and other postretirement benefit
    expense by $0.05 million.

Unrecognized net loss amounts reflect the difference between
    expected and actual returns on pension plan assets as well as
    the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions. Unrecognized
    net losses in excess of certain thresholds are amortized into
    net periodic pension and postretirement benefit expense over the
    average remaining service life of active employees. Amortization
    of unrecognized net loss amounts is expected to increase net
    pension expense by approximately $0.2 million in fiscal
    2007. Amortization of unrecognized net losses is not expected to
    impact the net postretirement health care expense in fiscal 2007.

The assumed health care cost trend rate could have a significant
    effect on the amounts reported. A one-percentage-point change in
    the assumed health care cost trend rate would have the following
    effects (in thousands):

Plan
    Assets   

The weighted average asset allocations of the investment
    portfolio for the pension plans at August 31 are as follows:

45

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The assets of the pension plans are invested in units of common
    trust funds actively managed by Frank Russell Trust Company, a
    professional fund investment manager. The investment strategy
    for the defined benefit pension assets is to maintain a
    diversified asset allocation in order to minimize the risk of
    large losses and maximize the long-term risk-adjusted rate of
    return. No plan assets are invested in Penford shares. There are
    no plan assets for the Company s postretirement health care
    plans.

Contributions
    and Benefit Payments   

The Company s funding policy for the defined benefit
    pension plans is to contribute amounts sufficient to meet the
    statutory funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income
    Security Act of 1974. The Company contributed $3.3 million,
    $3.6 million and $1.1 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively. The Company expects to contribute
    $1.1 million to its defined benefit pension plans during
    fiscal 2007. Penford funds the benefit payments of its
    postretirement health care plans on a cash basis; therefore, the
    Company s contributions to these plans in fiscal 2007 will
    approximate the benefit payments below.

Expected benefit payments are based on the same assumptions used
    to measure the benefit obligations and include benefits
    attributable to estimate future employee service.

Note 11  
    Other Employee Benefits  

Savings
    and Stock Ownership Plan   

The Company has a defined contribution savings plan where
    eligible North American-based employees can elect a maximum
    salary deferral of 16%. The plan provides a 100% match on the
    first 3% of salary contributions and a 50% match on the next
    3% per employee. The Company s matching contributions
    were $882,000, $750,000 and $777,000 for fiscal years 2006, 2005
    and 2004, respectively.

The plan also includes an annual profit-sharing component that
    is awarded by the Board of Directors based on achievement of
    predetermined corporate goals. This feature of the plan is
    available to all employees who meet the eligibility requirements
    of the plan. There were no profit-sharing contributions paid to
    participants for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004.

Deferred
    Compensation Plan   

The Company provides its directors and certain employees the
    opportunity to defer a portion of their salary, bonus and fees.
    The deferrals earn interest based on Moody s current
    Corporate Bond Yield. Deferred compensation interest of
    $184,000, $188,000 and $225,000 was accrued in 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively.

Supplemental
    Executive Retirement Plan   

The Company sponsors a supplemental executive retirement plan, a
    non-qualified plan, which covers certain employees. No current
    executive officers participate in this plan. For fiscal 2006,
    2005 and 2004, the net periodic pension expense accrued for this
    plan was $305,000, $302,000 and $185,000, respectively. Net
    periodic benefit expense for fiscal 2004 is net of curtailment
    gains of $133,000, resulting from the termination of one
    participant in

46

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

2004. The accrued obligation related to the plan was
    $3.9 million and $3.8 million for fiscal years 2006
    and 2005, respectively.

Health
    Care and Life Insurance Benefits   

The Company offers health care and life insurance benefits to
    most active North American employees. Costs incurred to provide
    these benefits are charged to expense as incurred. Health care
    and life insurance expense, net of employee contributions, was
    $4,345,000, $4,656,000 and $4,595,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively.

Superannuation
    Fund   

The Company contributes to superannuation funds on behalf of the
    employees of Penford Australia. Australian law requires the
    Company to contribute at least 9% of each employee s
    eligible pay. In New Zealand, the Company sponsors a
    superannuation benefit plan whereby it contributes 7.5% and 5%
    of eligible pay for salaried and hourly employees, respectively.
    The Company contributions to superannuation funds were
    $1,074,000, $1,085,000 and $1,079,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively.

Note 12  
    Other Non-operating Income  

Other non-operating income consists of the following:

In February 2006, the Company sold a parcel of land suitable
    only for agricultural purposes in Tamworth, New South
    Wales, Australia to a third-party purchaser for
    $0.7 million. The Company leases back the property from the
    purchaser under two lease terms and arrangements: i) a
    small parcel of land is leased for 25 years beginning
    August 2006 with annual rent of approximately
    $0.015 million converted to U.S. dollars at the
    Australian dollar exchange rate at August 31, 2006 and
    ii) the majority of land sold is leased for one year
    beginning August 2006 with annual rental of approximately
    $0.08 million converted to U.S. dollars at the
    Australian dollar exchange rate at August 31, 2006. The
    total gain on the sale was $0.3 million. The gain of
    $0.1 million in excess of the present value of the lease
    payments was recognized during the second quarter of fiscal
    2006. The remaining gain of $0.2 million will be recognized
    proportionally over the terms of the leases discussed above.

In 2005 and 2004, the Company refinanced its secured term and
    revolving credit facilities and wrote off $1.1 million and
    $0.7 million, respectively, of unamortized debt issuance
    costs related to these credit agreements. See Note 5.

In the first quarter of fiscal 2003, the Company sold certain
    assets of its resistant starch Hi-maize business to National
    Starch Corporation ( National Starch ). The Company
    recorded a $1.9 million gain on the sale of these assets.
    The Company also exclusively licensed to National Starch certain
    rights to its resistant starch intellectual property portfolio
    for applications in human nutrition. Under the terms of the
    licensing agreement, the Company received an initial licensing
    fee of $2.25 million ($1.6 million net of transaction
    expenses) which is being amortized over the life of the royalty
    agreement. The royalty payments are subject to a minimum of
    $7 million over the first five years of the licensing
    agreement. The Company recognized $1.8 million,
    $1.4 million and $2.2 million in

47

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

income during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, related
    to the licensing fee and royalties. The Company has recognized
    $6.6 million in royalty income from the inception of the
    agreement through August 31, 2006.

In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company sold a parcel of land
    suitable for residential real estate development in Tamworth,
    New South Wales, Australia, to a third-party purchaser for
    $1.9 million in cash, recognizing a gain on the sale of
    $1.2 million. The Company has leased the property from the
    purchaser for 12 months with an option to renew the lease
    for an additional 6 months. The annual rental on the
    property converted to U.S. dollars at the Australian dollar
    exchange rate at August 31, 2006 is $0.08 million.

In the third quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company sold a majority
    of its investment in a small Australian
     start-up 
    company and recognized a $0.7 million pre-tax gain on the
    transaction.

Note 13  
    Income Taxes  

Income (loss) before income taxes is as follows:

Income tax expense (benefit) consists of the following:

48

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

A reconciliation of the statutory federal tax to the actual
    provision (benefit) for taxes is as follows:

The significant components of deferred tax assets and
    liabilities are as follows:

At August 31, 2006, the Company had federal alternative
    minimum tax credit carryforwards of $0.5 million, which do
    not expire under current tax law.

The Company has not provided for U.S. federal income and
    foreign withholding taxes on undistributed earnings from
     non-U.S. operations 
    as of August 31, 2006 because the Company intends to
    reinvest such earnings indefinitely outside of the United States.

In August 2005, the Company received a report from the Internal
    Revenue Service ( IRS ) regarding the audit of the
    Company s U.S. federal income tax returns for fiscal
    years ended August 31, 2001 and 2002. The IRS has
    challenged the deductibility of interest expense, loss on
    extinguishment of debt and debt issuance costs in those years.
    At August 31, 2006, these tax returns are before the
    IRS s Appeals Division. No assurance can be given that
    these tax matters will be resolved in the Company s favor
    in view of the inherent uncertainties and complexity involved in
    tax proceedings. Although the Company believes that its tax
    return positions are supportable, management has recorded a
    current tax liability for its best estimate of the probable loss
    on certain of these positions.

49

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

In 2004, the Company filed amended U.S. federal income tax
    returns for fiscal years ended August 31, 2001 and 2002,
    increasing the extraterritorial income exclusion
    ( EIE ) deduction. The methodology that was used to
    determine the incremental EIE deduction for those years was also
    utilized for the federal income tax returns for fiscal years
    ended August 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005. Penford had not
    recognized the tax benefit associated with the incremental
    EIE deduction for fiscal years 2001 through 2004 because
    the Company had concluded that it was not probable, as defined
    in FASB Statement No. 5,  Accounting for
    Contingencies,  that the deduction would be sustained. In
    its tax audits of the fiscal 2001 and 2002 federal income tax
    returns, the IRS did not challenge the Company s EIE
    deduction for those years. Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of
    2005, the Company recognized the incremental tax benefit of this
    deduction for fiscal years 2001 through 2004. The amount of tax
    benefit recognized for years prior to 2005 was $2.5 million.

Note 14  
    Restructuring Costs  

In the first quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company s
    Australian business began implementing an organizational and
    operational restructure plan at its Tamworth, New South Wales,
    manufacturing facility. During fiscal 2004, a total of
    16 employees were terminated and $0.6 million was
    expensed as restructuring costs related to severance and fringe
    benefits. All severance and related benefits had been paid by
    August 31, 2004. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, the
    Australian business segment wrote off $0.2 million of
    equipment in connection with the Tamworth restructuring. The
    fiscal 2004 costs of this restructure have been classified as
    operating expenses in the Statement of Operations.

In the second quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company s
    Industrial Ingredients   North America business
    implemented a workforce reduction of 38 employees. In connection
    therewith, $0.5 million was charged to operating expense as
    restructuring costs. All severance and related costs were paid
    at August 31, 2004.

Note 15  
    Earnings Per Common Share  

The following table presents the computation of basic and
    diluted earnings per share:

Weighted-average stock options omitted from the denominator of
    the earnings per share calculation because they were
    antidilutive were 536,775, 346,388 and 214,000 for 2006, 2005
    and 2004, respectively.

Note 16  
    Segment Reporting  

Financial information for the Company s three segments is
    presented below. The first two segments, Industrial
    Ingredients   North America and Food
    Ingredients   North America, are broad categories of
    end-market users served by the Company s
    U.S. operations. The Industrial Ingredients segment
    provides carbohydrate-based starches for industrial
    applications, primarily in the paper and packaging products
    industries. The Food Ingredients segment produces specialty
    starches for food applications. The third segment is the
    geographically separate operations in Australia and New Zealand.
    The Australian and New Zealand operations produce specialty
    starches used primarily

50

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

in the food ingredients business. See Part 1, Item 1,
     Business,  for a description of the products for each
    segment. A fourth item for  corporate and other 
    activity has been presented to provide reconciliation to amounts
    reported in the consolidated financial statements. Corporate and
    other represents the activities related to the corporate
    headquarters such as public company reporting, personnel costs
    of the executive management team, corporate-wide professional
    services and consolidation entries. The elimination of
    intercompany sales between Australia/New Zealand operations and
    Food Ingredients   North America is presented
    separately since the chief operating decision maker views
    segment results prior to intercompany eliminations. The
    accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as
    those described in Note 1.

51

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Reconciliation of total income from operations for the
    Company s segments to income before income taxes as
    reported in the consolidated financial statements follows:

Sales, attributed to the point of origin, are as follows:

Sales, attributed to the area to which the product was shipped,
    are as follows:

52

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

With the adoption of SFAS No. 123R on
    September 1, 2005, the Company recognized $1.1 million
    in stock-based compensation expense for fiscal 2006. The
    following table summarizes the stock-based compensation expense
    related to stock option awards by segment for fiscal year 2006.

Prior to September 1, 2005, the Company presented pro forma
    information for the periods prior to the adoption of
    SFAS No. 123R and no compensation expense was
    recognized for the stock-based compensation plans other than for
    the Directors  Plan and restricted stock awards. See
    Note 9.

Note 17  
    Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)  

(1)  

The Company s operating results for the third quarter of
    fiscal 2005 included a $0.7 million pre-tax gain related to
    the sale of an investment and the operating results for the
    fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 included the following items:
    (i) $1.1 million pre-tax write off of unamortized
    transaction costs related to the Company s refinancing of
    its credit facility; (ii) $1.2 million pre-tax gain on
    sale of land and (iii) recognition of tax benefit of
    $3.2 million related to current and prior years
    extraterritorial income exclusion deduction. The tax benefit of
    $2.5 million related to 2001 through 2004 was recognized in
    2005 when the Company determined that it was probable that the
    deduction on the U.S. federal income tax returns would be
    sustained. See Note 12 and 13. 

53

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Note 18  
    Legal Proceedings  

In October 2004, Penford Products Co. ( Penford
    Products ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, was
    served with a lawsuit filed by Graphic Packaging International,
    Inc. ( Graphic ) in the Fourth Judicial District
    Court, Ouachita Parish, State of Louisiana. The petition seeks
    monetary damages for alleged breach of contract, negligence and
    tortious misrepresentation. These claims arise out of an alleged
    agreement obligating Penford Products to supply goods to Graphic
    and Penford Products  alleged breach of such agreement,
    together with conduct related to such alleged breach. Penford
    has filed an answer generally denying all liability and has
    countersued for damages. During the fourth quarter of the
    Company s fiscal year 2006, the parties continued to
    conduct discovery. Based upon discovery responses made by
    Graphic, Graphic is seeking damages of approximately
    $3.3 million. Penford is seeking damages of approximately
    $675,000.

The Company is involved in various other claims and litigation
    arising in the normal course of business. In the judgment of
    management, which relies in part on information from Company
    counsel, the ultimate resolution of these actions will not
    materially affect the consolidated financial statements of the
    Company.

Note 19  
    Subsequent Event  

On October 5, 2006, Penford Corporation (the
     Company ) entered into a $145 million Second
    Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the
     Agreement ) among the Company; Harris N.A.; LaSalle
    Bank National Association; Cooperative Centrale
    Raiffeisen-Boorleenbank B.A.,  Rabobank Nederland 
    (New York Branch); U.S. Bank National Association; and the
    Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited.

The Agreement refinances the Company s previous
    $105 million secured term and revolving credit facilities.
    Under the Agreement, the Company may borrow $40 million in
    term loans and $60 million in revolving lines of credit.
    The lenders  revolving credit loan commitment may be
    increased under certain conditions. In addition, the Agreement
    provides the Company with $45 million in new capital
    expansion funds which may be used by the Company to finance the
    construction of its planned ethanol production facility in Cedar
    Rapids, Iowa. The capital expansion funds may be borrowed as
    term loans from time to time prior to October 5, 2008.

The final maturity date for the term and revolving loans under
    the Agreement is December 31, 2011. Beginning on
    December 31, 2006, the Company must repay the term loans in
    twenty equal quarterly installments of $1 million, with the
    remaining amount due at final maturity. The final maturity date
    for the capital expansion loans is December 31, 2012.
    Beginning on December 31, 2008, the Company must repay the
    capital expansion loans in equal quarterly installments of
    $1.25 million through September 30, 2009 and
    $2.5 million thereafter, with the remaining amount due at
    final maturity. Interest rates under the Agreement are based on
    either the London Interbank Offering Rates ( LIBOR )
    in Australia or the U.S., or the prime rate, depending on the
    selection of available borrowing options under the Agreement.

The Agreement provides that the Total Funded Debt Ratio, which
    is computed as funded debt divided by earnings before interest,
    taxes, depreciation and amortization (as defined in the
    Agreement) shall not exceed 3.25 through November 30, 2006.
    Subsequent to November 30, 2006, the maximum Total Funded
    Debt Ratio varies between 3.00 and 4.50. In addition, the
    Company must maintain a minimum tangible net worth of
    $65 million, and a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio, as defined
    in the Agreement, of not more than 1.50 in fiscal 2007, 1.25 in
    fiscal 2008 and 1.50 in fiscal 2009 and thereafter. Annual
    capital expenditures, exclusive of capital expenditures incurred
    in connection with the Company s ethanol production
    facility, are limited to $20 million.

The Company s obligations under the Agreement are secured
    by substantially all of the Company s assets and those of
    its principal domestic subsidiary, Penford Products Co.

54

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    MANAGEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
    REPORTING  

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting for the
    Company. Internal control over financial reporting is a process
    to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our
    financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America. Internal control over financial reporting includes
    maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and
    fairly reflect the Company s transactions; providing
    reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
    for preparation of the Company s financial statements;
    providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of
    the Company s assets are made in accordance with
    management s authorization; and providing reasonable
    assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of
    the Company s assets that could have a material effect on
    the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a
    timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal
    control over financial reporting is not intended to provide
    absolute assurance that a misstatement of the Company s
    financial statements would be prevented or detected.

Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the
    Company s internal controls over financial reporting based
    on the framework in Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
    the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management
    concluded that the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting was effective as of August 31, 2006.
    Ernst & Young LLP has issued an audit report on
    management s assessment of the Company s internal
    control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2006.

55

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Penford Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Penford Corporation as of August 31, 2006 and 2005, and the
    related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive
    income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of
    the three years in the period ended August 31, 2006. These
    financial statements are the responsibility of the
    Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Penford Corporation at August 31,
    2006 and 2005, and the consolidated results of its operations
    and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
    ended August 31, 2006 in conformity with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

As discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial
    statements, effective September, 1, 2005, the Company
    adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment. 

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    effectiveness of Penford Corporation s internal control
    over financial reporting as of August 31, 2006, based on
    criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework
    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission and our report dated November 9, 2006
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/   Ernst &
    Young LLP 

Denver, Colorado

November 9, 2006

56

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Penford Corporation

We have audited management s assessment, included in the
    accompanying Report of Management on Internal Controls over
    Financial Reporting, that Penford Corporation maintained
    effective internal control over financial reporting as of
    August 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
    of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO
    criteria). Penford Corporation s management is responsible
    for maintaining effective internal control over financial
    reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
    internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is
    to express an opinion on management s assessment and an
    opinion on the effectiveness of the company s internal
    control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
    management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design
    and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
    such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
    circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
    basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management s assessment that Penford
    Corporation maintained effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of August 31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all
    material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our
    opinion, Penford Corporation maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of August 31, 2006, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of Penford Corporation as of
    August 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated
    statements of operations, comprehensive income,
    shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended August 31, 2006 of Penford
    Corporation and our report dated November 9, 2006 expressed
    an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/   Ernst &
    Young LLP 

Denver, Colorado

November 9, 2006

57

Table of Contents   

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure.   

Not applicable.

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures.   

Under the supervision and with the participation of management,
    including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of its
    disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act
     Rule 13a-15(b) 
    as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on
    that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and
    procedures are effective. Management s report on internal
    control over financial reporting and the related report of the
    Company s registered independent public accounting firm are
    included at the end of Item 8 above. There were no changes
    in the Company s internal control over financial reporting
    during the quarter ended August 31, 2006 that have
    materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
    affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information.   

Not applicable.

PART III  

Item 10.      

Directors
    and Executive Officers of the Registrant.   

The information set forth under the headings  Election of
    Directors  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial
    Ownership Reporting Compliance  in the definitive Proxy
    Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the
     2007 Proxy Statement ), to be filed not later than
    120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this
    report, is incorporated herein by reference. Information
    regarding the Executive Officers of the Registrant is set forth
    in Part I, Item 1.

The Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
    (the  Code ) that is applicable to all employees,
    consultants and members of the Board of Directors, including the
    Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate
    Controller. This Code embodies the commitment of the Company and
    its subsidiaries to conduct business in accordance with the
    highest ethical standards and applicable laws, rules and
    regulations. The Company will provide any shareholder a copy of
    the Code, without charge, upon written request to the
    Company s Secretary.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation.   

The information set forth under the heading  Executive
    Compensation  in the 2007 Proxy Statement is incorporated
    herein by reference.

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters.   

The information set forth under the heading  Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  in
    the 2007 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

58

Table of Contents   

Securities
    Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation
    Plans  

The following table provides information regarding
    Penford s equity compensation plans at August 31,
    2006. The Company has no equity compensation plans that have not
    been approved by security holders.

(1)  

This plan has been terminated and no additional options are
    available for grant. The options which were not granted under
    the 1994 Stock Option Plan at January 24, 2006 or which are
    subsequently forfeited or not exercised are available for
    issuance under the 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. 

(2)  

Each Director receives a grant of $18,000 of restricted stock
    every three years. The restricted stock vests one-third on each
    anniversary of the grant date. 

(3)  

This plan has been terminated and no additional options will be
    granted under this plan. 

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions.   

The information relating to certain relationships and related
    transactions of the Company is set forth under the heading
      Change-in-Control 
    Arrangements  in the 2007 Proxy Statement and is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services.   

Information concerning principal accountant fees and services
    appears under the heading  Fees Paid to Ernst &
    Young LLP  in the 2007 Proxy Statement and is incorporated
    herein by reference.

PART IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules.   

(a)(1)  Financial Statements 

The consolidated balance sheets as of August 31, 2006 and
    2005 and the related consolidated statements of operations,
    comprehensive income, cash flows and shareholders  equity
    for each of the three years in the period ended August 31,
    2006 and the reports of the independent registered public
    accounting firm are included in Part II, Item 8.

59

Table of Contents   

(2)  Financial Statement Schedules 

All schedules for which provision is made in the applicable
    accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission
    are omitted because they are not applicable or the information
    is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements in
    Part II, Item 8.

(3)  Exhibits 

See index to Exhibits on page 62.

(b)  Exhibits 

See Item 15(a)(3), above.

(c)  Financial Statement Schedules 

None

60

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized, on this 14th day of November
    2006.

Penford Corporation

/s/   Thomas
    D. Malkoski 

Thomas D. Malkoski

President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated
    below on November 14, 2006.

Signature 

Title 

/s/   Thomas
    D. Malkoski  

Thomas
    D. Malkoski

President, Chief Executive Officer
    and Director 
    (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/   Steven
    O. Cordier  

Steven
    O. Cordier

Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

/s/   Paul
    H. Hatfield  

Paul
    H. Hatfield

Chairman of the Board of Directors

/s/   William
    E. Buchholz  

William
    E. Buchholz

Director

/s/   Jeffrey
    T. Cook  

Jeffrey
    T. Cook

Director

/s/   R.
    Randolph
    Devening  

R.
    Randolph Devening

Director

/s/   John
    C.
    Hunter III  

John
    C. Hunter III

Director

/s/   Sally
    G. Narodick  

Sally
    G. Narodick

Director

/s/   James
    E. Warjone  

James
    E. Warjone

Director

61

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO
    EXHIBITS  

Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission, are incorporated by
    reference. Copies of exhibits can be obtained at no cost by
    writing to Penford Corporation, 7094 S. Revere
    Parkway, Centennial, Colorado 80112.

*  

Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 

62

<EX-3.1>
 2
 d41196exv3w1.htm
 RESTATED AND AMENDED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION

exv3w1 

Exhibit 3.1

ARTICLES OF AMENDMENT 
OF 
PENWEST, LTD.

Pursuant to RCW 23B.10.060, the undersigned corporation adopts the following Articles of
Amendment to its Restated Articles of Incorporation:

FIRST: The name of the corporation is PENWEST, LTD. (the  Corporation ).

SECOND: The Restated Articles of Incorporation are hereby amended as follows:

Article I is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with a new Article I to read as
follows:

ARTICLE I 
NAME

The name of the corporation (the  Corporation ) is Penford Corporation.

THIRD: The foregoing amendment was adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation on
October 8, 1997 in accordance with the provisions of RCW 23B.10.020. Shareholders action was not
required.

PENWEST, LTD. 

Date: October 10, 1997

By:

/s/ EDMUND O. BELSHEIM, JR.

Name: Edmund O. Belsheim, Jr. 

Title: Vice President 

RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION 
OF 
PENWEST, LTD.

Pursuant to RCW 23B.10.070 these Restated Articles of Incorporation are submitted for filing:

1. The name of the corporation is PENWEST, LTD.

2. The Restated Articles are as follows:

ARTICLE I 
NAME

The name of the corporation (the  Corporation ) is PENWEST, LTD.

ARTICLE II 
REGISTERED OFFICE AND AGENT

The address of the registered office of the Corporation is 520 Pike Street, 26th Floor,
Seattle, Washington 98101, and the name of the registered agent at such address is C T CORPORATION
SYSTEM.

ARTICLE III 
PURPOSE

The purpose of the Corporation is to create the maximum continuing rate of value growth
through long-term profit on invested capital and the growth of that capital.

To accomplish this purpose, the Board of Directors, management and employees of the
Corporation will strive to:

- 
       
     Properly select business opportunities versus risk; 

- 
       
     Develop and maintain strategic direction for all business segments; 

- 
       
     Develop and maintain superior management and organizational
structures; 

- 
       
     Encourage employee involvement in the business process; 

- 
       
     Provide all employees the opportunity of a value growth
environment of good employment, training, advancement and recognition of their
achievements; 

- 
       
     Create market understanding of the intrinsic values so created: 

- 
       
     Conduct its business legally and ethically within the free
enterprise system 

2 

as a responsible corporate citizen. 

In carrying out this purpose, the Corporation is authorized to engage in any lawful act or
activity for which corporations may be organized under the Washington Business Corporation Act.

ARTICLE IV 
SHARES

1. The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the Corporation shall have
authority to issue is 30,000,000 shares to be divided into two classes consisting of 29,000,000
shares of common stock of the par value of $1.00 per share (hereinafter designated  Common Stock )
and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock of the par value of $1.00 per share (hereinafter designated
 Preferred Stock ). The Common Stock shall have one (1) vote for each share. The Preferred Stock
shall have such full or limited or absence of voting powers and designations, preferences,
limitations and relative rights as shall be stated and expressed in the resolution or resolutions
of the Board of Directors of the Corporation providing for the issue of such shares of Preferred
Stock subject to the following limitations: (a) no share of Preferred Stock shall have voting
powers in excess of one (1) vote per share; provided, however, if the Preferred Stock is
convertible into Common Stock as of a record date on which a matter is submitted to a vote of the
holders of Common Stock, then such shares of Preferred Stock may, in the resolution providing for
the issue of such shares and subject to any restrictions or conditions set forth in the resolution,
be granted the right to vote the number of shares of Common Stock which would be issued upon such
conversion as of the record date; and (b) no shares of Preferred Stock shall be given a preference
over the Common Stock in the event of any liquidation, dissolution, winding up, merger or
consolidation of an amount greater than the per share fair market value of the consideration
received upon the issuance of the shares of Preferred Stock as reasonably determined in good faith
by the Board of Directors of the Corporation plus accrued but unpaid dividends.

The Preferred Stock may be issued in one or more series of stock and each such series, subject
to the limitations set forth above, may have such designations, preferences, limitations and
relative rights as shall be stated and expressed in a resolution or resolutions providing for the
issue of such Preferred Stock adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to the authority hereby
granted.

The Preferred Stock may have voting powers, designations, preferences, limitations and
relative rights that negate or supersede the provisions of Article VIII hereof (so long as the
resolution or resolutions adopting the same are approved by the unanimous vote of the Board of
Directors).

2. The shares of stock of the Corporation may be issued by the Corporation from time to time
for such consideration, not less than the par value thereof except as otherwise provided by law, as
from time to time may be fixed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation; and all issued shares
of the capital stock of the Corporation shall be deemed fully paid and non-assessable and the
holders of such shares shall not be liable thereunder to the Corporation or to its creditors.

3 

3. No shareholder of the Corporation shall have any preemptive right to acquire additional
shares of stock or securities convertible into shares of stock of the Corporation.

ARTICLE V 
DURATION

The existence of the Corporation is to be perpetual.

ARTICLE VI 
PAYMENT FOR CORPORATE DEBTS

The private property of the shareholders shall not be subject to the payment of corporate
debts to any extent whatsoever.

ARTICLE VII 
CERTAIN DEFINITIONS

For purposes of these Articles, the following defined terms shall have the meanings set forth
below. All references in these Articles to statutes, rules or regulations shall include a
reference to said statutes, rules or regulations as currently in effect or hereafter amended.

(a) The terms  Affiliate  and  Associate  shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such
terms in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

(b) The term  Beneficial Owner  and correlative terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in Rule 13d-3 and related interpretive releases promulgated and issued under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. Without limitation, any shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation which any
Related Person has the right to vote or to acquire pursuant to any agreement, or upon exercise of
conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, shall be deemed  Beneficially Owned  by such
Related Person.

A person shall be a Beneficial Owner of any Voting Stock:

(1) which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates beneficially owns, directly or
indirectly; or

(2) which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has (a) the right to acquire
(whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any
agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights,
warrants or options, or otherwise, or (b) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement
or understanding; or

(3) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other person with which such
person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding for
the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of any shares of Voting Stock.

4 

(c) The term  Board of Directors  or the  Board  means the group of individuals elected by the
shareholders as directors of the Corporation or appointed by the directors to fill a vacancy on the
Board.

(d) The term  Continuing Director  shall mean, with respect to any proposed Major Transaction,
a director who was a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation immediately prior to the
time that any Related Person involved in the proposed Major Transaction acquired 20% or more of the
outstanding shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation.

(e) The term  Disinterested Director  means any member of the Board of Directors who is
unaffiliated with any Interested Shareholder and/or Substantial Shareholder and was a member of the
Board prior to the time that any Interested Shareholder or Substantial Shareholder became an
Interested Shareholder or Substantial Shareholder, and any successor of a Disinterested Director
who is unaffiliated with any Interested Shareholder or Substantial Shareholder and is recommended
to succeed a Disinterested Director by a majority of Disinterested Directors then on the Board.

(f) The term  Fair Market Value  means (i) in the case of stock, the Market Price, and (ii) in
the case of property other than cash or stock, the fair market value of such property on the date
in question as determined by the Board in good faith.

(g) The term  Interested Shareholder  shall mean any person (other than the Corporation or any
Subsidiary) who or which:

(1) is the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 5% or more of the voting power of the
outstanding Voting Stock; or

(2) is an Affiliate of the Corporation and at any time within the two-year period immediately
prior to the date in question was the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of five percent
(5%) or more of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock; or

(3) is an assignee of or has otherwise succeeded to any shares of Voting Stock which were, at
any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, beneficially owned
by any Interested Shareholder, if such assignment or succession shall have occurred in the course
of a transaction or series of transactions not involving a public offering within the meaning of
the Securities Act of 1933.

(h) The term  Major Transaction  shall mean (1) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation
or a Subsidiary with or into a Related Person, (2) any sale, lease, exchange, transfer or other
disposition, including without limitation a mortgage or other security device, of all or any
Substantial Part of the assets of the Corporation (including without limitation any securities of a
Subsidiary) or of a Subsidiary, to a Related Person, (3) any merger or consolidation of a Related
Person with or into the Corporation or a Subsidiary, (4) any sale, lease, exchange, transfer or
other disposition of all or any Substantial Part of the assets of a Related Person to the
Corporation or a Subsidiary, (5) the issuance of any securities of the Corporation or a Subsidiary
to a Related Person, (6) the acquisition by the Corporation or a Subsidiary of any securities of a
Related Person, (7) any reclassification of Voting Stock of the Corporation, or any
recapitalization involving Voting Stock of the Corporation, proposed by a Related Person within

5 

five years after such Related Person became a Related Person, (8) any loan or other extension
of credit by the Corporation or a Subsidiary to a Related Person or any guarantees by the
Corporation or a Subsidiary of any loan or other extension of credit by any person to a Related
Person, and (9) any agreement, contract or other arrangement providing for any of the transactions
described in this definition of Major Transaction.

(i) The term  Market Price  means: the last closing sale price immediately preceding the time
in question of a share of the stock in question on the Composite Tape for New York Stock
Exchange-Listed Stocks, or if such stock is not quoted on the Composite Tape, on the New York Stock
Exchange, or if such stock is not listed on such Exchange, on the principal United States
securities exchange registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on which such stock is
listed, or if such stock is not listed on any such exchange, the last closing bid quotation with
respect to a share of such stock immediately preceding the time in question on the National
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System or any system then in use (or
any other system of reporting or ascertaining quotations then available), or if such stock is not
so quoted, the fair market value at the time in question of a share of such stock as determined by
the Board in good faith.

(j) The term  other consideration to be received  shall, for the purposes of subparagraph
1(d)(1) of Article VIII, include without limitation Voting Stock of the Corporation retained by its
existing public shareholders in the event of a Major Transaction which is a merger or consolidation
in which the Corporation is the surviving corporation.

(k) The term  Outside Director  shall mean, with respect to any proposed Major Transaction, a
director who is not (1) an officer or employee of the Corporation or of any Subsidiary or any
relative of an officer or employee, (2) a Related Person or an officer, director or employee,
Associate or Affiliate of a Related Person, or a relative of any of the foregoing, or (3) a person
having a direct or indirect material business relationship with the Corporation or any Subsidiary.

(l) The term  Related Person  shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership or other
person or entity and each member of any  person  as such term is defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which, together with its Affiliates and Associates, or other
members of such  person  and any other person or entity with which it or its Affiliates or
Associates has any agreement, arrangement, or understanding, directly or indirectly, for the
purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of Voting Stock of the Corporation, is the
Beneficial Owner of 20% or more in the aggregate of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock of the
Corporation, and any Affiliate, Associate or member of such  person,  or any such other persons or
entities.

(m) The term  Subsidiary  means any corporation or other entity of which a majority of any
class of equity security is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation;
provided, however, that for the purposes of the definitions of Interested Shareholder and
Substantial Shareholder set forth in paragraphs (g) and (o) of this Article VII, the term
 Subsidiary  shall mean only a corporation of which a majority of the voting power of the capital
stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is owned, directly or indirectly, by
the Corporation.

6 

(n) The term  Substantial Part  shall mean more than ten percent (10%) of the total assets of
the person or entity in question, as of the end of its most recent fiscal year ending prior to the
time the determination is being made.

(o) The term  Substantial Shareholder  shall mean any person (other than the Corporation or
any Subsidiary) who or which:

(1) is the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 40% or more of the voting power of
the outstanding Voting Stock; or

(2) is an Affiliate of the Corporation and at any time within the two-year period immediately
prior to the date in question was the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 40% or more of
the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock; or

(3) is an assignee of or has otherwise succeeded to any shares of Voting Stock which were at
any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question beneficially owned by
any Substantial Shareholder, if such assignment or succession shall have occurred in the course of
a transaction or series of transactions not involving a public offering within the meaning of the
Securities Act of 1933.

(p) The term  Voting Stock  shall mean all Common Stock and any other shares entitled to vote
for the election of Directors of the Corporation.

(q) For the purposes of determining whether a person is an Interested Shareholder or a
Substantial Shareholder pursuant to paragraphs (g) and (o) of this Article VII, the number of
shares of Voting Stock deemed to be outstanding shall include shares deemed owned through
application of paragraph (b) of this Article VII, but shall not include any other shares of Voting
Stock which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon
exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.

ARTICLE VIII 
HIGHER THAN MAJORITY VOTE OF SHAREHOLDERS REQUIRED 
IN THE EVENT OF CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS

1. Subject to the provisions of any series of Preferred Stock which may at the time be
outstanding, any Major Transaction shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of not less
than 80% of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Corporation, which shall include the affirmative
vote of at least 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock held by shareholders other than the Related
Person involved in such Major Transaction; provided, however, that such voting requirement shall
not be applicable if:

(a) The Major Transaction was approved by the Board either (i) prior to the Related Person
involved in the Major Transaction having become a Related Person, or (ii) after such Related Person
became such but only if the Related Person has sought and obtained the unanimous approval by the
Board of such Related Person s acquisition of 20% or more of the outstanding shares of Voting (b)
Stock prior to such acquisition being consummated; or

7 

(c) The Major Transaction involves solely the Corporation and a Subsidiary none of whose stock
is Beneficially Owned by a Related Person (other than Beneficial Ownership arising solely because
of control of the Corporation); provided that each shareholder of the Corporation receives the same
type of consideration in such transaction in proportion to his stock holdings; or

(d) Prior to becoming a Related Person, such Related Person made a tender offer for Voting
Stock which (i) conformed in all respects to federal laws and regulations governing such a
transaction whether or not the Corporation or such stock was then regulated by or registered under
said laws, (ii) committed such Related Person to take all shares tendered if it took any shares,
and (iii) resulted in such Related Person acquiring at least 75% of the shares of each class of
Voting Stock held by persons other than such Related Person; or

(e) All the following conditions are satisfied:

(1) The cash or Fair Market Value of the property, securities or other consideration to be
received per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reclassification of shares into
a lesser number and similar events) by holders of Common Stock of the Corporation in the Major
Transaction is not less than the higher of (i) the highest per share price (including brokerage
commissions, soliciting dealer s fees, dealer-management compensation, and other expenses,
including, but not limited to, costs of newspaper advertisements, printing expenses and attorneys 
fees, paid by such Related Person in acquiring any of its holdings of the Corporation s Common
Stock or (ii) an amount which bears the same or a greater percentage relationship to the Market
Price of the Corporation s Common Stock immediately prior to the announcement of such Major
Transaction as the highest per share price determined in (i) above bears to the Market Price of the
Corporation s Common Stock immediately prior to the commencement of acquisition of the
Corporation s Common Stock by such Related Person; and

(2) After becoming a Related Person and prior to the consummation of such Major Transaction,
(i) such Related Person shall not have acquired any shares of stock, directly or indirectly, from
the Corporation or a Subsidiary (except upon conversion of convertible securities acquired by it
prior to becoming a Related Person or upon compliance with the provisions of this Article VIII or
as a result of a pro rata stock dividend or stock split) and (ii) such Related Person shall not
have received the benefit, directly or indirectly (except proportionately as a shareholder), of any
loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial assistance or tax credits provided by the
Corporation or a Subsidiary, or made any major changes in the Corporation s business or equity
capital structure without the unanimous vote of the members of the Board then in office; and

(3) A proxy statement responsive to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
whether or not the Corporation is then subject to such requirements, shall be mailed to all
shareholders of the Corporation for the purpose of soliciting shareholder approval of such Major
Transaction and shall contain at the front thereof, in a prominent place any recommendations as to
the advisability (or inadvisability) of the Major Transaction which the Continuing Directors, or
any Outside Directors, may choose to state.

8 

2. The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have the power and duty to determine for
the purposes of this Article VIII, on the basis of information known to the Corporation, whether
(a) any corporation, person or other entity  Beneficially Owns,  directly or indirectly, more than
twenty percent (20%) of the shares of the Voting Stock, (b) any corporation, person or other entity
is an Affiliate or Associate of another and (c) any proposed sale, lease, exchange or other
disposition of part of the assets of the Corporation or any of its Affiliates involves a
Substantial Part of the assets of the Corporation or such Affiliate, provided that assets involved
in any single transaction or series of related transactions having an aggregate fair market value
of more than fifteen percent (15%) of the total consolidated assets of the Corporation and its
Affiliates shall always be deemed to constitute a  Substantial Part  for purposes of this Article
VIII. Any such determination made in good faith shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes
of this Article VIII.

3. Nothing contained in this Article VIII shall be construed to relieve any Related Person
from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.

ARTICLE IX 
RESTRICTIONS ON SHARE REPURCHASES AND OTHER TRANSACTIONS

1. Any purchase by the Corporation of shares of Voting Stock from an Interested Shareholder,
other than pursuant to an offer to the holders of all of the outstanding shares of the same class
of Voting Stock as those so purchased, at a per share price in excess of the Market Price at the
time of such purchase of the shares so purchased, shall require the affirmative vote of the holders
of that amount of the voting power of the Voting Stock equal to the sum of (i) the voting power of
the shares of Voting Stock of which the Interested Shareholder is the Beneficial Owner and (ii) a
majority of the voting power of the remaining outstanding shares of Voting Stock, voting together
as a single class.

2. In addition to any affirmative vote required by law or these Articles of Incorporation:

(a) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any Subsidiary with (1) any Interested
Shareholder or (2) any other corporation (whether or not itself an Interested Shareholder) which
is, or after such merger or consolidation would be, an Affiliate of an Interested Shareholder; or

(b) any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in one
transaction or a series of transactions) to or with any Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate of
any Interested Shareholder of any assets of the Corporation or any Subsidiary having an aggregate
Fair Market value of $2,000,000 or more; or

(c) the issuance or transfer by the Corporation or any Subsidiary (in one transaction or a
series of transactions) of any securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary having an aggregate
Fair Market Value of $2,000,000 or more to any Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate of any
Interested Shareholder in exchange for cash, securities or other property (or a combination
thereof); or

9 

(d) the adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation
proposed by or on behalf of an Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate of any Interested
Shareholder; or

(e) any reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split), or
recapitalization of the Corporation, or any merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any
Subsidiary or any other transaction (whether or not with or into or otherwise involving an
Interested Shareholder) which has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the
proportionate share of the outstanding shares of any class of equity or convertible securities of
the Corporation or any Subsidiary which is directly or indirectly owned by any Interested
Shareholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Shareholder;

shall require either (a) the approval of a majority of the Disinterested Directors or (b) the
affirmative vote of the holders of that amount of voting power of the Voting Stock equal to the sum
of (1) the voting power of the shares of Voting Stock of which the Interested Shareholder is the
Beneficial Owner and (2) a majority of the voting power of the remaining outstanding shares of
Voting Stock, voting together as a single class; provided, however, that no such vote shall be
required for (i) the purchase by the Corporation of shares of Voting Stock from an Interested
Shareholder unless such vote is required by Section 1 of this Article IX, (ii) any transaction with
an Interested Shareholder who is also a Related Person as defined in Article VII and to which the
provisions of Article VIII apply and are complied with, or (iii) any transaction with an Interested
Shareholder who has Beneficially Owned all his shares of Voting Stock for two years or more.

3. At any election of directors of the Corporation on or after the date on which any
Substantial Shareholder becomes a Substantial Shareholder, and until such time as there is no
longer any Substantial Shareholder, there shall be cumulative voting for election of directors so
that any holder of shares of Voting Stock entitled to vote in such election shall be entitled to as
many votes as shall equal the number of directors to be elected multiplied by the number of votes
to which such shareholder s shares would be entitled except for the provisions of this Section 3,
and such shareholder may cast all of such votes for a single director, or distribute such votes
among as many candidates as such shareholder sees fit. In any such election of directors, one or
more candidates for the Board may be nominated by a majority of the Disinterested Directors and by
any person who is the Beneficial Owner of 1% or more of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock.
With respect to any candidates nominated by a majority of the Disinterested Directors or by any
person who is the Beneficial Owner of 1% or more of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock, there
shall be included in any proxy statement or other communication with respect to such election to be
sent to holders of shares of Voting Stock by the Corporation during the period in which there is a
Substantial Shareholder, at the expense of the Corporation, descriptions and other statements of or
with respect to such candidates submitted by them or on their behalf, which shall receive equal
space, coverage and treatment as is received by candidates nominated by the Board or management of
the Corporation provided that such information is received on a timely basis and complies with
applicable federal and state securities laws.

4. It shall be the duty of any Interested Shareholder:

(a) to give or cause to be given written notice to the Corporation, immediately upon becoming
an Interested Shareholder, of such person s status as an Interested Shareholder

  10 

and of such other information as the Corporation may reasonably require with respect to
identifying all owners and amount of ownership of the outstanding Voting Stock of which such
Interested Shareholder is a Beneficial Owner, and

(b) to notify the Corporation promptly in writing of any change in the information provided
in subparagraph (a) of this Section  provided, however, that the failure of an Interested
Shareholder to comply with the provisions of this Section 4 shall not in any way be construed to
prevent the Corporation from enforcing the provisions of Sections 1 through 3 of this Article IX.

5. A majority of the Disinterested Directors of the Corporation shall have the power and duty
to determine for the purposes of this Article IX, on the basis of information known to them after
reasonable inquiry, (a) whether a person is an Interested Shareholder or a Substantial Shareholder,
(b) the number of shares of Voting Stock Beneficially Owned by any person, (c) whether a person is
an Affiliate or an Associate of another person and (d) whether a transaction or a series of
transactions constitutes one of the transactions specified in Section 2 hereof. The good faith
determination of a majority of the Disinterested Directors shall be conclusive and binding for all
purposes of this Article IX.

ARTICLE X 
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS

1. The number of directors of the Corporation shall be specified in the Bylaws, and such
number may from time to time be increased or decreased in such manner as may be prescribed in the
Bylaws, provided the number of directors of the Corporation shall not be less than seven (7).

2. Directors shall be classified with respect to the time for which they shall severally hold
office by dividing them into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible. Those of the
first class shall be elected for a term of office to expire at the first annual meeting of
shareholders after their election, those of the second class shall be elected for a term of office
to expire at the second annual meeting of shareholders after their election, and those of the third
class shall be elected for a term of office to expire at the third annual meeting of shareholders
after their election. Thereafter, the class of directors then being elected shall be elected to
hold office for a term of office to expire at the third succeeding annual meeting of shareholders
after their election. Each director shall hold office for the term for which elected and until
such director s successor shall have been elected and qualified.

3. At a meeting of shareholders called expressly for that purpose, any director, any class of
directors, or the entire Board of Directors may be removed from office as a director at any time
(a) for cause by the shareholders entitled to elect such director if the number of votes cast to
remove the director exceeds the number of votes cast not to remove the director, and if cumulative
voting is then in effect, then a director may not be removed if the number of votes sufficient to
elect such director is voted against the director s removal, or (b) without cause by the
affirmative vote which satisfies the requirements of Article XI applicable to an amendment,
modification, or repeal of certain of these Articles.

11 

4. Vacancies in the Board of Directors, including vacancies resulting from an increase in the
number of directors, shall be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining
directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. The term
of a director elected to fill a vacancy shall expire at the next annual meeting of shareholders at
which directors are elected. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of
Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.

5. All corporate powers shall be exercised by the Board of Directors except as otherwise
provided by law or these Articles of Incorporation.

6. Except as otherwise provided in these Articles of Incorporation, shareholders of the
Corporation shall not have the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors.

ARTICLE XI 
RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN AMENDMENTS

The provisions set forth in this Article XI and in Articles III, VII, VIII, IX, X and XVII
herein may not be repealed or amended in any respect, unless such action is approved by the
affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock of
the Corporation, subject to the provisions of any series of Preferred Stock which may at the time
be outstanding, provided, however, that if there is a shareholder of the Corporation which is a
Related Person, such 80% vote must include the affirmative vote of at least 50% of the outstanding
Voting Stock held by shareholders other than the Related Person.

ARTICLE XII 
POWERS OF DIRECTORS

The directors shall have power to make and to alter or amend the Bylaws and shall have all
such other powers as they may be afforded by applicable law.

ARTICLE XIII 
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

To the fullest extent permitted by the Washington Business Corporation Act as the same exists
or may hereafter be amended, a director of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation
or its shareholders for monetary damages for conduct as a director. Any amendments to or repeal of
this Article XIII shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director for or with
respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.

ARTICLE XIV 
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS

1. The Corporation shall have the following powers:

(a) The Corporation may indemnify and hold harmless to the fullest extent not prohibited by
applicable law each person who was or is made a party to or is threatened to be made a party to or
is involved (including, without limitation, as a witness) in any actual or

  12 

threatened action, suit or other proceeding, whether civil, criminal, derivative,
administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director,
officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or, being or having been such a director, officer,
employee or agent, he or she is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director,
officer, employee, agent, trustee, or in any other capacity of another corporation or of a
partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee
benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action or omission in an official
capacity or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee, agent, trustee or
in any other capacity, against all expense, liability and loss (including, without limitation,
attorneys  fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts to be paid in
settlement) actually or reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith.
Such indemnification may continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee
or agent of the Corporation and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs and personal
representatives.

(b) The Corporation may pay expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of
the final disposition of any such proceeding; provided, however, that the payment of such expenses
in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding shall be made to or on behalf of a director,
officer, employee or agent only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf
of such director, officer, employee or agent, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall
ultimately be determined that such director, officer, employee or agent is not entitled to be
indemnified under this Article XIV or otherwise, which undertaking may be unsecured and may be
accepted without reference to financial ability to make repayment.

(c) The Corporation may enter into contracts with any person who is or was a director,
officer, employee or agent of the Corporation in furtherance of the provisions of this Article XIV
and may create a trust fund, grant a security interest in property of the Corporation, or use other
means (including, without limitation, a letter of credit) to ensure the payment of such amounts as
may be necessary to effect indemnification as provided in this Article XIV.

(d) If the Washington Business Corporation Act (the  Act ) is amended in the future to expand
or increase the power of the Corporation to indemnify, to pay expenses in advance of final
disposition, to enter into contracts, or to expand or increase any similar or related power, then,
without any further requirement of action by the shareholders or directors of the Corporation, the
powers described in this Article XIV shall be expanded and increased to the fullest extent
permitted by the Act, as so amended.

(e) No indemnification shall be provided under this Article XIV to any such person if the
Corporation is prohibited by the nonexclusive provisions of the Act or other applicable law as then
in effect from paying such indemnification. For example, no indemnification shall be provided to
any director in respect of any proceeding, whether or not involving action in his or her official
capacity, in which he or she shall have been finally adjudged to be liable on the basis of
intentional misconduct or knowing violation of law by the director, or from conduct of the director
in violation of Section 23B.08.310 of the Act, or that the director personally received a benefit
in money, property or services to which the director was not legally entitled.

13 

2. The Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless any person who is or was a director or
officer of the Corporation, and pay expenses in advance of final disposition of a proceeding, to
the full extent to which the Corporation is empowered.

3. The Corporation may, by action of its Board of Directors from time to time, indemnify and
hold harmless any person who is or was an employee or agent of the Corporation, and pay expenses in
advance of final disposition of a proceeding, to the full extent to which the Corporation is
empowered, or to a lesser extent which the Board of Directors may determine.

4. The rights to indemnification and payment of expenses in advance of final disposition of a
proceeding conferred by or pursuant to this Article XIV shall be contract rights.

5. A director, officer, employee or agent ( claimant ) shall be presumed to be entitled to
indemnification and/or payment of expenses under this Article XIV upon submission of a written
claim (and, in an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any
proceeding in advance of its final disposition, where the undertaking in subsection 1(b) above has
been delivered to the Corporation) and thereafter the Corporation shall have the burden of proof to
overcome the presumption that the claimant is so entitled.

If a claim under this Article XIV is not paid in full by the Corporation within sixty (60)
days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, except in the case of a claim for
expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition, in which case the
applicable period shall be twenty (20) days, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit
against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, to the extent successful in
whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such
claim. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its board of directors, its shareholders
or independent legal counsel) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action
that indemnification of or reimbursement or advancement of expenses to the claimant is proper in
the circumstances nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its board of directors,
its shareholders or independent legal counsel) that the claimant is not entitled to indemnification
or to the reimbursement or advancement of expenses shall be a defense to the action or create a
presumption that the claimant is not so entitled.

6. The right to indemnification and payment of expenses in advance of final disposition of a
proceeding conferred in this Article XIV shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person
may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the articles of incorporation,
bylaws, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.

7. The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and
any director, officer, employee, agent or trustee of the Corporation or another corporation,
partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss,
whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense,
liability or loss under the Act.

8. Any repeal or modification of this Article XIV shall not adversely affect any right of any
person existing at the time of such repeal or modification.

14 

9. If any provision of this Article XIV or any application thereof shall be invalid,
unenforceable or contrary to applicable law, the remainder of this Article XIV, or the application
of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid,
unenforceable or contrary to applicable law, shall not be affected thereby and shall continue in
full force and effect.

10. For purposes of this Article XIV, applicable law shall at all times be construed as the
applicable law in effect at the date indemnification may be sought, or the law in effect at the
date of the action, omission or other event giving rise to the situation for which indemnification
may be sought, whichever is selected by the person seeking indemnification. As of the date hereof,
applicable law shall include Section 23B.08.500 through .600 of the Act.

ARTICLE XV 
MERGERS, SHARE EXCHANGES, AND OTHER TRANSACTIONS

Except as otherwise expressly provided in these Articles, a merger, share exchange, sale of
substantially all of the Corporation s assets, or dissolution must be approved by the affirmative
vote of a majority of the Corporation s outstanding shares entitled to vote, or if separate voting
by voting groups is required, then by not less than a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast
by that voting group.

ARTICLE XVI 
CORPORATION S ACQUISITION OF ITS OWN SHARES

The Corporation may purchase, redeem, receive, take or otherwise acquire, own and hold, sell,
lend, exchange, transfer or otherwise dispose of, pledge, use and otherwise deal with and in its
own shares. As a specific modification of Section 231B.06.310 of the Act, pursuant to the
authority in Section 23B.02.020(5)(c) of the Act to include provisions related to the management of
the business and the regulation of the affairs of the Corporation, shares of the Corporation s
stock acquired by it pursuant to this Article XVI shall be considered  Treasury Stock  and so held
by the Corporation. The shares so acquired by the Corporation shall not be considered as
authorized and unissued but rather as authorized, issued, and held by the Corporation. The shares
so acquired shall not be regarded as canceled or as a reduction to the authorized capital of the
Corporation unless specifically so designated by the Board of Directors in an amendment to these
Articles. The provisions of this Article XVI do not alter or effect the status of the
Corporation s acquisition of its shares as a  distribution  by the Corporation as defined in
Section 23B.01.400(6) of the Act, nor alter or effect the limitations on distributions by the
Corporation as set forth in Section 23B.06.400 of the Act. Any shares so acquired by the
Corporation, unless otherwise specifically designated by the Board of Directors, at the time of
acquisition, shall be considered on subsequent disposition as transferred rather than reissued.
Nothing in this Article XVI limits or restricts the right of the Corporation to resell or otherwise
dispose of any of its shares previously acquired for such consideration and according to such
procedures as established by the Board of Directors.

15 

ARTICLE XVII 
SPECIAL SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS

Special meetings of the shareholders of the Corporation for any purpose or purposes may be
called at any time by the Board of Directors, or by a committee of the Board of Directors which has
been duly designated by the Board of Directors and whose powers and authority, as provided in a
resolution of the Board of Directors or in the bylaws of the Corporation, include the power to call
such meeting, but such special meetings may not be called by any other person or persons.

ARTICLE XVIII 
INCORPORATOR

The name and address of the incorporator are: Edmund O. Belsheim, Jr., Two Union Square, 601
Union Street, Seattle, Washington 98101.

Dated: November 10, 1995.

/s/ Jeffrey T. Cook

Jeffrey T. Cook  

Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer  

16 

</EX-3.1>

<EX-10.1>
 3
 d41196exv10w1.htm
 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

exv10w1 

EXHIBIT 10.1

PENFORD CORPORATION

DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

Effective September 1, 1989

Restated September 1, 2001

TABLE OF CONTENTS

(i) 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

(ii) 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

(iii) 

PENFORD CORPORATION

DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

ARTICLE I PURPOSE

1.1 Purpose

Penford Corporation (the  Corporation ) adopts this Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) to
provide current tax planning opportunities as well as supplemental funds for Retirement or death
for certain employees and Directors of the Corporation. It is intended that the Plan will aid in
attracting and retaining employees and Directors of exceptional ability by providing them with this
benefit.

1.2 Effective Date

The Plan, effective as of September 1, 1989 and restated September 1, 1996, is amended by this
restatement, as of September 1, 2001.

ARTICLE II DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated, unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise:

2.1 Account

Account  means the record maintained by the Corporation for each Participant in accordance
with Article IV with respect to any deferral of Compensation or Fees pursuant to this Plan.

2.2 Base Annual Salary

Base Annual Salary  means the annual compensation payable to an Executive, excluding Bonuses
and noncash compensation.

2.3 Beneficiary

Beneficiary  means the person, persons or entity designated under Article VI to receive any
Plan Benefits payable after a Participant s death.

2.4 Board

Board  means the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of
Penford Corporation or any successor thereto.

PAGE 1 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

2.5 Bonus

Bonus  means the compensation derived under the Corporation s  Management Incentive Plan  and
payable in any year in a lump sum to an Executive.

2.6 Change in Control

A Change in Control shall have occurred if:

(a) Any Person is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of
securities of the Corporation representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting power
of the outstanding Voting Stock,

(b) The effective date of a merger, consolidation, reorganization or dissolution in
which the Corporation is not the surviving entity, or

(c) During any period of two (2) consecutive years, individuals who constitute the
Board of Directors of the Corporation at the beginning of any such period cease for any
reason to constitute at least a majority thereof, unless the election, or the nomination for
election by the Corporation s shareholders, of each new director was approved by a vote of
at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who were directors of the
Corporation at the beginning of such period.  Person  means an individual, firm, corporation
or other entity, together with all Affiliates and Associates of such Person, but shall not
include the Corporation, any subsidiary of the Corporation or any employee benefit plan of
the Corporation.  Affiliate  and  Associate  shall have the respective meanings ascribed to
such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Voting Stock 
means the common stock of the Corporation and any other shares entitled to vote for the
election of directors of the Corporation.

2.7 Committee

Committee  means a committee of three (3) persons appointed by the Chief Executive Officer of
the Company to administer the Plan pursuant to Article VII.

2.8 Compensation

Compensation  means the following, determined before reduction for amounts deferred under
this Plan:

(a) For an Executive, the total Base Annual Salary and Bonus remuneration payable by
the Corporation to the Executive for services.

(b) For a Director, all of the fees payable by the Corporation for service on the
Board.

2.9 Corporation

Corporation  means Penford Corporation, a Washington corporation, or any successor thereto,
and any corporations or other entities affiliated with or subsidiary to it that may be selected by
the Board.

PAGE 2 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

2.10 Deferral Commitment

Deferral Commitment  means a Base Annual Salary Deferral Commitment or a Bonus Deferral
Commitment made by an Executive or a Fee Deferral Commitment made by a Director pursuant to Article
III and for which a Participation Agreement has been submitted by the Executive or Director to the
Committee.

2.11 Deferral Period

Deferral Period  means the period during which a Participant has elected to defer a portion
of his Compensation. The Deferral Period shall be a Plan Year.

2.12 Determination Date

Determination Date  means the last day of each calendar month.

2.13 Director

Director  means a member of the Board.

2.14 Early Retirement Date

Early Retirement Date  means the date on which a Participant terminates employment with
Employer, the earlier of the date on or after such Participant s attainment of age fifty-five (55)
and completion of twenty (20) Years of Service or age sixty-two (62) and completion of ten (10)
Years of Service, but prior to the Participant s Normal Retirement Date.

2.15 Elective Deferred Compensation

Elective Deferred Compensation  means the amount of Compensation or Fees that the Executive
or Director elects to defer pursuant to a Deferral Commitment.

2.16 Executive

Executive  means one of a select group of management or highly compensated employees of the
Corporation, as designated by the Committee and approved by the Board for participation in the
Plan.

2.17 Fees

Fees  means Board meeting, committee meeting, annual retainer and committee chairmanship
fees.

2.18 Financial Hardship

Financial Hardship  means a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from a
sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant or of a dependent of the Participant,
loss of the Participant s property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and
unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.
Financial Hardship shall be determined by the

PAGE 3 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

Committee on the basis of information supplied by the
Participant in accordance with the standards set forth by the Committee.

2.19 Interest

Interest  means the monthly equivalent of an annual yield that is two (2) percentage points
higher than the annual yield of the Moody s Average Corporate Bond Yield Index for the preceding
month, as published by Moody s Investor Service, Inc. (or any successor thereto), or, if such index
is no longer published, a substantially similar index selected by the Board. At no time shall the Interest Rate be
less than six percent (6%) annually.

2.20 Normal Retirement Date

Normal Retirement Date  means the date on which a Participant terminates employment with
Employer on or after such Participant s attainment of age sixty-five (65).

2.21 Participant

Participant  means an Executive or Director who has elected to defer Compensation or Fees
during any Deferral Period.

2.22 Participation Agreement

Participation Agreement  means the agreement submitted by an Executive or Director to the
Committee prior to the beginning of the Deferral Period, with respect to one (1) or more Deferral
Commitments made for such Deferral Period.

2.23 Plan

Plan  means this Deferred Compensation Plan as amended from time to time.

2.24 Plan Benefit

Plan Benefit  means:

(a) The Deferred Compensation Account benefit payable to a Participant as calculated
pursuant to Article IV and payable under Sections 5.1 through 5.5; and

(b) The Supplemental Retirement Benefit payable to an Executive under Section 5.6.

2.25 Plan Year

Plan Year  means the fiscal year of the Corporation.

PAGE 4 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

2.26 Retirement

Retirement  means:

(a) For an Executive, termination from service on or after the Early Retirement Date or
Normal Retirement Date. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may deem any separation from
service as a Retirement.

(b) For a Director, termination from service on the Board at or after age seventy (70).

2.27 Retirement Plan

Retirement Plan  means the Penford Corporation Retirement Plan effective March 1, 1984 as
amended from time to time.

2.28 Termination

Termination means:

(a) For an Executive, leaving employment with the Corporation prior to Retirement.

(b) For a Director, leaving the Board prior to Retirement.

ARTICLE III ELIGIBILITY AND DEFERRAL COMMITMENTS

3.1 Eligibility and Participation

(a)  Eligibility . The Committee shall specify the name of each Executive who shall be
initially entitled to participate in the Plan as of the next succeeding Plan Year. These
names shall be submitted to the Board for approval. Once designated eligible, an Executive
may participate in the Plan each year without further approval until such time, if any, that
the Committee determines that the Executive s employment status no longer deserves reward
through participation in the Plan. Notwithstanding that determination, no account shall be
paid out until Retirement or Termination. All Directors are eligible to participate each
year.

(b)  Participation . An eligible individual may elect to participate in the Plan with
respect to any Deferral Period by submitting a Participation Agreement to the Committee by
the thirtieth (30 th ) day of the month immediately preceding the beginning of the
Deferral Period.

(c)  Part-Year Participation . When an individual first becomes eligible to participate
during a Deferral Period, a Participation Agreement may be submitted to the Committee within
thirty (30) days following notification of the individual of eligibility to participate,
which will be effective only with regard to Compensation earned following such submission.

3.2 Deferral Election

(a)  Election by Executive . Prior to September 1, 2001, an Executive could elect to
defer receipt of a certain whole percentage or flat dollar amount, up to fifty percent
(50%), of the Base

PAGE 5 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

Annual Salary and a certain whole percentage or flat dollar amount, up to
one hundred percent (100%), of any Bonus payable to him or her as an employee of the
Corporation. Beginning September 1, 2001, an Executive may elect to defer receipt of a
certain whole percentage or flat dollar amount, up to twenty-five percent (25%), of the Base
Annual Salary and a certain whole percentage or flat dollar amount, up to fifty percent
(50%), of any Bonus payable to him or her as an employee of the Corporation for the next
Plan Year; provided, however, that any such election to defer shall apply only with respect
to Base Annual Salary or any Bonus payable to the Executive by the Corporation prior to the
Executive s termination of employment for any reason.

(b)  Election by Director . A Director may elect to defer receipt of a certain whole
percentage or flat dollar amount, up to one hundred percent (100%), of Fees for the next
Plan Year.

(c)  Minimum Deferral . Total deferrals by a Participant in a year must be fifteen
hundred dollars ($1,500) or more. In any partial first year of participation, no minimum
deferral shall be required.

3.3 Modification of Deferral Commitment

Deferral Commitments shall be irrevocable except that the Committee may, in its sole
discretion, reduce the amount to be deferred or waive the remainder of the Deferral Commitment upon
a finding that the Participant has suffered a Financial Hardship. A finding of Financial Hardship
shall not limit a Participant s ability to participate in succeeding Deferral Periods. In the event
a Participant becomes disabled under the Penford Long-Term Disability Plan, deferrals will be
immediately suspended.

ARTICLE IV DEFERRED COMPENSATION ACCOUNT

4.1 Account

The Corporation shall establish on its books a separate account for each Participant who
elects to defer Compensation under the Plan, and shall credit to the account of each Participant
the Elective Deferred Compensation. The credit shall be entered on the Corporation s books of
account at the time that Compensation or Fees not deferred are paid to the Participant. Any
withholding of taxes or other amounts with respect to Deferred Compensation that is required by
state, federal, or local law shall be withheld from the Participant s corresponding nondeferred
compensation to the maximum extent possible and the remaining amount shall reduce the amount
credited to the Participant s Account.

4.2 Interest; Determination of Accounts

Each Participant s Account as of each Determination Date shall consist of the balance of the
Participant s Account as of the immediately preceding Determination Date, plus the Participant s
Elective Deferred Compensation credited and any Interest earned, minus the amount of any
distributions made, since the immediately preceding Determination Date. Interest earned shall be
calculated as of each Determination Date based upon the average daily balance of the Account since
the preceding Determination Date and shall be credited to the Participant s Account at that time.

PAGE 6 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

4.3 Statement of Account

A report shall be issued by the Corporation to each Participant setting forth his or her
Account balance under the Plan as of the immediately preceding Determination Date as soon as
practicable after the close of each Plan Year or such other time as the Committee deems
appropriate.

ARTICLE V PLAN BENEFITS

5.1 Plan Benefit

The Corporation shall pay Plan Benefits pursuant to this Article V equal to the Participant s
Account to each Participant who terminates employment for any reason.

(a)  Early Withdrawals . A Participant s Account may be distributed to the Participant
before Termination of employment or service on the Board as follows:

(i)  Early Withdrawals . A Participant may elect in a Participation Agreement to
withdraw all or any portion of the amount deferred by that Participation Agreement as
of a
date specified in the election. For elections made for a Plan Year prior to September
1, 1996, such withdrawal shall be made for the purchase of a primary residence or the
costs of providing a secondary education to a dependent. If at the time the withdrawal
is scheduled said reason does not exist, the early withdrawal election shall be null
and void. For elections made for a Plan Year beginning September 1, 1996 or thereafter,
such withdrawal shall be made for any reason, which reason need not be disclosed by the
Participant. Such date shall not be sooner than seven (7) years after the date the
Deferral Period commences. The amount withdrawn shall not exceed the amount of
Compensation deferred, without Interest.

(ii)  Form of Payment . Withdrawals shall be paid in a lump sum and shall be
charged to the Participant s Account as a distribution.

(b)  Retirement and Termination Benefits . If an Executive terminates employment with
Corporation, or if a Director terminates service on the Board, for any reason except death,
Corporation shall pay the Participant benefits equal to the balance in the Account.

(c)  Death Benefit .

(i)  Pretermination . If a Participant dies while employed by Corporation or
serving on the Board, Corporation shall pay to the Participant s Beneficiary benefits
equal to the balance in the Account. The benefit shall be paid in the form elected by
the Participant in the form of payment designation, or, if no such election is on file,
in a lump sum.

(ii)  Posttermination . If a Participant dies following the Participant s
Retirement or Termination of employment with Corporation or service on the Board,
Corporation shall pay the Participant s Beneficiary benefits equal to the balance, if
any, in the Account. Payments shall continue to be made in the same form as those made
to the Participant prior to death.

PAGE 7 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

5.2 Commencement of Payments

(a)  Deferred Compensation Account . Payment of any Deferred Compensation Account
benefits under the Plan shall be made as of, or commence as of, the earlier of:

(i) A date elected by the Participant as specified in the applicable Participation
Agreement between the Corporation and the Participant; or

(ii) The settlement date as provided in Section 5.9.

(b)  Supplemental Retirement Benefits . Supplemental Retirement Benefits under Section
5.6 shall be made as of, or commence as of, the earliest date for which a monthly payment is
payable to or for the Participant under the Retirement Plan.

5.3 Form of Benefit Payment

At the time the Participant elects to defer Compensation, the Participant shall also elect the
form of benefit payment. The Participant may elect a different form of benefit payment for payments
made due to either Retirement, Termination prior to Retirement or Termination within twenty-four
(24) months following a Change in Control.

(a)  Alternative Forms . Alternative forms of benefit payment are:

(i) In equal annual installments, the number of such installments not to exceed
ten (10), as designated by the Participant;

(ii) In a single sum payment; or

(iii) In a combination of partial lump sum payment, and balance in installments,
not to exceed ten (10) years.

Such election shall be irrevocable.

(b)  Small Accounts . If the Participant s Account is under five thousand dollars
($5,000) on the valuation date, the benefit shall be paid in a lump sum.

(c)  Installments . If payment is by installments, the amount of the installments shall
be redetermined each year on the twelve (12) month anniversary of the valuation date based
upon the remaining Account balance, the remaining number of installments and Interest equal
to the rate in effect as of the preceding month.

5.4 Hardship Distributions

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article V, payment from the Participant s
Deferred Compensation Account may be made to the Participant or a Beneficiary following the death
of a Participant in the sole discretion of the Committee by reason of Financial Hardship. A payment
based upon Financial Hardship of the Participant may not exceed the amount required to meet the
immediate financial need created by the hardship and not reasonably available from other sources of
the Participant.

PAGE 8 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

Any resumption of the Participant s deferrals under the Plan shall be made only at
the election of the Participant in accordance with Article III herein.

PAGE 9 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

5.5 Accelerated Distribution

Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, within twenty-four (24) months following a
Change in Control or at any time following Retirement or Termination of employment or service on
the Board, a Participant shall be entitled to receive, upon written request to the Committee, a
lump sum distribution equal to ninety percent (90%) of the vested Account balance as of the
Determination Date immediately preceding the date on which the Committee receives the written
request. The remaining balance of ten percent (10%) shall be forfeited by the Participant. A
Participant who receives a distribution under this Section 5.5 shall not participate in the Plan
for twelve (12) calendar months following the election. The amount payable under this Section shall
be paid in a lump sum within sixty-five (65) days following the receipt of the notice by the
Committee from the Participant. Following the death of the Participant, the designated Beneficiary
may, at any time, request an accelerated distribution under this Section.

5.6 Supplemental Retirement Benefit

Employer shall restore an amount equal to any reduction in a Participant s Retirement Plan or
Social Security benefits because of deferrals under this Plan to the extent the Retirement Plan or
Social Security benefits are not restored by any other Employer-provided plan or agreement.

5.7 Golden Parachute Payments

If any benefit payable under this Plan would constitute an excess parachute payment under
Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or any successor provision, the amount payable
shall be increased to the extent necessary to result in the Participant s receiving the same net
amount after all applicable taxes have been paid as the net after-tax amount the Participant would
have received if the benefit had not been subject to additional taxes due to being treated as an
excess parachute payment.

5.8 Withholding on Benefit Payments

The Corporation shall withhold from payments made hereunder any taxes required to be withheld
from such payments under federal, state or local law. However, a Beneficiary may elect not to have
withholding for federal income tax purposes pursuant to Section 3405(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue
Code, or any successor provision thereto.

5.9 Valuation and Settlement

The last day of the month following the month of Retirement, Termination or death shall be the
valuation date. If a lump sum is elected, the amount of the lump sum shall be based on the value of
the Participant s Account on the valuation date. If a combination of lump sum and installments is
elected, the lump sum will be paid on the settlement date and installments will commence on the
twelve (12) month anniversary of the valuation date. If installment payments are elected, the
amount of the installment payments shall be based on the value of the Participant s Account on the
valuation date. The date on which installment payments commence shall be the settlement date. The
settlement date shall be no more than thirty-five (35) days after the valuation date. All payments
shall be made as of the first day of the month.

5.10 Payment to Guardian

If a Plan benefit is payable to a minor or a person declared incompetent or to a person
incapable of handling the disposition of property, the Committee may direct payment of such Plan
benefit to the

PAGE 10 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

guardian, legal representative or person having the care and custody of such minor,
incompetent or person. The
Committee may require proof of incompetency, minority, incapacity or guardianship as it may deem
appropriate prior to distribution of the Plan benefit. Such distribution shall completely discharge
the Committee and the Corporation from all liability with respect to such benefit.

ARTICLE VI BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION

6.1 Beneficiary Designation

Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person or persons or an
entity as his Beneficiary or Beneficiaries (both primary as well as secondary) to whom benefits
under this Plan shall be paid in the event of a Participant s death prior to complete distribution
of the benefits due under the Plan. Each Beneficiary Designation shall be in written form
prescribed by the Committee and will be effective only when filed with the Committee during the
Participant s lifetime. Designation by a married Participant of a Beneficiary other than the
Participant s spouse shall not be effective without spousal execution of a written consent
acknowledging the effect of the designation unless such consent cannot be obtained because the
spouse cannot be located.

6.2 Changes to Designation

Any Beneficiary designation may be changed by the Participant without the consent of the
previously named Beneficiary by the filing of a new designation with the Committee subject to the
spousal consent required in Section 6.1 above. The filing of a new Beneficiary designation shall
cancel all designations previously filed, unless the designation clearly indicates that such
designation controls the account attributable to deferrals made during the election period in which
the designation is filed.

6.3 Change in Marital Status

If the Participant s marital status changes after the Participant has designated a
Beneficiary, the following shall apply:

(a) If the Participant is married at death but was unmarried when the designation was
made, the designation shall be void unless the spouse has consented to it in the manner
prescribed above.

(b) If the Participant is unmarried at death but was married when the designation was
made:

(i) The designation shall be void if the spouse was named as Beneficiary.

(ii) The designation shall remain valid if a nonspouse Beneficiary was named.

(c) If the Participant was married when the designation was made and is married to a
different spouse at death, the designation shall be void unless the new spouse has consented
to it in the manner prescribed above.

PAGE 11 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

6.4 No Beneficiary Designation

If any Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary in the manner provided above, if the
designation is void, or if the Beneficiary designated by a deceased Participant dies before the
Participant or before
complete distribution of the Participant s benefits, the Participant s Beneficiary shall be the
person in the first of the following classes in which there is a survivor:

(a) The Participant s surviving spouse;

(b) The Participant s children in equal shares, except that if any of the children
predecease the Participant but leave issue surviving, then such issue shall take by right of
representation the share the parent would have taken if living;

(c) The Participant s estate.

6.5 Effect of Payment

The payment to the deemed Beneficiary shall completely discharge the Corporation s obligations
under this Plan.

ARTICLE VII ADMINISTRATION

7.1 Committee; Duties

This Plan shall be administered by a committee of three (3) persons appointed by the Chief
Executive Officer of the Company. The Committee shall have such powers and duties as may be
necessary to discharge its responsibilities. These powers shall include, but not be limited to,
interpretation of the Plan provisions, determination of amounts due to any Participant, the rights
of any Participant or Beneficiary under this Plan, the right to require any necessary information
from any Participant, determine the amounts credited to Participant s Account and Interest earned,
and any other activities deemed necessary or helpful.

7.2 Agents

The Committee may, from time to time, employ other agents and delegate to them such
administrative duties as it sees fit, and may from time to time consult with counsel who may be
counsel to the Corporation.

7.3 Binding Effect of Decisions

The decision or action of the Committee in respect of any question arising out of or in
connection with the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan and the rules and
regulations promulgated hereunder shall be final and conclusive and binding upon all persons having
any interest in the Plan.

7.4 Indemnity of Committee

To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation shall indemnify, hold harmless and
defend the members of the Committee against any and all claims, loss, damage, expense or liability
aris-

PAGE 12 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

ing from any action or failure to act with respect to this Plan, on account of such member s
service on the Committee, except in the case of gross negligence or willful misconduct.

ARTICLE VIII CLAIMS PROCEDURE

8.1 Claim

Any person claiming a benefit, requesting an interpretation or ruling under the Plan, or
requesting information under the Plan shall present the request in writing to the Committee, which
shall respond in writing as soon as practicable.

8.2 Denial of Claim

If the claim or request is denied, the written notice of denial shall state:

(a) The reasons for denial, with specific reference to the Plan provisions on which the
denial is based,

(b) A description of any additional material or information required and an explanation
of why it is necessary, and

(c) An explanation of the Plan s claims review procedure.

8.3 Review of Claim

Any person whose claim or request is denied or who has not received a response within thirty
(30) days may request review by notice given in writing to the Committee. The claim or request
shall be reviewed by the Committee who may, but shall not be required to, grant the claimant a
hearing. On review, the claimant may have representation, examine pertinent documents, and submit
issues and comments in writing.

8.4 Final Decision

The decision on review shall normally be made within sixty (60) days. If an extension of time
is required for a hearing or other special circumstances, the claimant shall be notified and the
time limit shall be one hundred twenty (120) days. The decision shall be in writing and shall state
the reasons and the relevant Plan provisions. All decisions on review shall be final and bind all
parties concerned.

ARTICLE IX AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF THE PLAN

9.1 Amendment

The Board may at any time amend the Plan in whole or in part provided, however, that no
amendment shall be effective to decrease or restrict the amount credited to any Account maintained
under the Plan as of the date of amendment. Changes in the definition of  Interest  shall be
subject to the following restrictions:

PAGE 13 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

(a)  Notice . A change shall not become effective before the first day of the Plan Year
which follows the adoption of the amendment and at least thirty (30) days  written notice of
the amendment to the Executive.

(b)  Change in Control . Any change in the definition of Interest after a Change in
Control shall apply only to those amounts credited to the Executive s Account after the
Change in Control.

9.2 Corporation s Right to Terminate

The Board may at any time partially or completely terminate the Plan if, in its judgment, the
tax, accounting, or other effects of the continuance of the Plan, or potential payments thereunder,
would not be in the best interests of the Corporation.

(a)  Partial Termination . The Board may partially terminate the Plan by instructing the
Committee not to accept any additional Deferral Commitments. In the event of such a partial
termination, the Plan shall continue to operate and be effective with regard to Deferral
Commitments entered into prior to the effective date of such partial termination.

(b)  Complete Termination . The Board may completely terminate the Plan by instructing
the Committee not to accept any additional Deferral Commitments, and terminate all ongoing
Deferral Commitments. In the event of such a complete termination, the Plan shall cease to
operate and, prior to a Change in Control, the Committee shall pay out to each Participant
the balance in his Account in equal annual installments amortized over the period listed
below based on the Account balance at the time of such complete termination:

Interest earned on the unpaid balance in the Participant s Account shall be the
applicable Interest rate on the Determination Date immediately preceding the effective date
of such complete termination.

Upon Plan termination prior to a Change in Control, any Participant who is retired and
receiving installment payments will receive the account balance in a lump sum.

After a Change in Control, the benefits shall be paid to each Participant in the form
elected by each Participant.

PAGE 14 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

ARTICLE X MISCELLANEOUS

10.1 Unfunded Plan

This Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide deferred
compensation benefits for a select group of  management or highly-compensated employees  within the
meaning of Sections 201, 301, and 401 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended ( ERISA ), and therefore to be exempt from the provisions of Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of
ERISA. Accordingly, the Plan shall terminate and no further benefits shall accrue hereunder in the
event it is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or by an opinion of counsel that the
Plan constitutes an employee pension benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA which
is not so exempt. In the event of a termination under this Section 10.1, all ongoing Deferral
Commitments shall terminate, no additional Deferral Commitments will be accepted by the Committee,
and the amount of each Participant s Account balance shall be distributed to such Participant at
such time and in such manner as the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines.

10.2 Unsecured General Creditor

Participants and their Beneficiaries, heirs, successors and assigns shall have no legal or
equitable rights, interest or claims in any property or assets of the Corporation, nor shall they
be Beneficiaries of, or have any rights, claims or interests in any life insurance policies,
annuity contracts or the proceeds therefrom owned or which may be acquired by the Corporation.
Except as may be provided in Section 10.3, such policies, annuity contracts or other assets of the
Corporation shall not be held under any trust for the benefit of the Participants, their
Beneficiaries, heirs, successors or assigns, or held in any way as collateral security for the
fulfilling of the obligations of the Corporation under this Plan. Any and all of the Corporation s
assets and policies shall be, and remain, the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of the
Corporation. The Corporation s obligation under the Plan shall be that of an unfunded and unsecured
promise to pay money in the future.

10.3 Trust Fund

The Corporation shall be responsible for the payment of all benefits provided under the Plan.
At its discretion, the Corporation may establish one (1) or more trusts, with such trustees as the
Board may approve, for the purpose of providing for the payment of such benefits. Although such
trust or trusts may be irrevocable, the assets thereof shall be subject to the claims of all the
Corporation s creditors in the event of insolvency. To the extent any benefits provided under the
Plan are actually paid from any such trust, the Corporation shall have no further obligation with
respect thereto, but to the extent not so paid, such benefits shall remain the obligation of, and
shall be paid by, the Corporation.

10.4 Nonassignability

Neither a Participant nor any other person shall have the right to commute, sell, assign,
transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in
advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are,
and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and nontransferable. No part of
the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the
payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other
person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant s or any other
person s bankruptcy or insolvency.

PAGE 15 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

10.5 Not a Contract of Employment

The terms and conditions of this Plan shall not be deemed to constitute a contract of
employment between the Corporation and the Participant, and the Participant (or the Participant s
Beneficiary) shall have no rights against the Corporation except as may otherwise be specifically
provided herein. Moreover, nothing in this Plan shall be deemed to give a Participant the right to
be retained in the service of the Corporation or to interfere with the right of the Corporation to
discipline or discharge the Participant at any time.

10.6 Protective Provisions

A Participant will cooperate with the Corporation by furnishing any and all information
requested by the Corporation, in order to facilitate the payment of benefits hereunder, and by
taking such physical examinations as the Corporation may deem necessary and taking such other
actions as may be requested by the Corporation.

10.7 Governing Law

The provisions of this Plan shall be construed and interpreted according to the laws of the
State of Washington, except as preempted by federal law.

10.8 Validity

If any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, said illegality
or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts hereof, but this Plan shall be construed and
enforced as if such illegal and invalid provisions had never been inserted herein.

10.9 Notice

Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Committee under the Plan shall
be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or sent by registered or certified mail, to any
member of the Committee or the Secretary of the Corporation. Such notice shall be deemed given as
of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark on
the receipt for registration or certification. Mailed notice to the Committee shall be directed to
the Corporation s address. Mailed notice to a Participant or Beneficiary shall be directed to the
individual s last known address in the Corporation s records.

PAGE 16 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

10.10 Successors

The provisions of this Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Corporation and its
successors and assigns. The term successors as used herein shall include any corporate or other
business entity which shall, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise acquire all or
substantially all of the business and assets of the Corporation, and successors of any such
corporation or other business entity.

PENFORD CORPORATION 

By: 

President and CEO

Dated: 

PAGE 17 - DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

</EX-10.1>

<EX-21>
 4
 d41196exv21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

exv21 

Exhibit 21

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT 

Year Ended August 31, 2006

Percent 

Name 
       
     Incorporation 
       
     Owned 

Penford Corporation

Washington 

Penford Products Co.

Delaware 

100 
     % 

Penford Holdings Pty. Limited

New South Wales, Australia 

100 
     % 

Penford Australia Limited

New South Wales, Australia 

100 
     % 

Penford New Zealand Ltd.

New Zealand 

100 
     % 

Penford Export Corporation

U.S. Virgin Islands 

100 
     % 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 d41196exv23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23 

Exhibit 23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:

of our report dated November 9, 2006, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of
Penford Corporation, our report dated November 9, 2006, with respect to Penford Corporation
management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Penford Corporation included in this
Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Penford Corporation.

/s/Ernst   Young LLP

ERNST   YOUNG LLP      

Denver, Colorado 
November 9, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 6
 d41196exv24.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

exv24 

Exhibit 24

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes
and appoints Thomas D. Malkoski, Steven O. Cordier and Margaret Von der Schmidt and each of them,
severally as attorney-in-fact for him or her in any and all capacities to sign the Annual Report on
Form 10-K of Penford Corporation for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006, and to file such
document and any amendments, with exhibits thereto, and any other documents in connection
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
said attorney-in-fact, or his or her substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 d41196exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Thomas D. Malkoski, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Penford Corporation;

2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this annual report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) designed such internal control over financing reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this annual report based on such evaluation;
and

d) disclosed in this annual report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

PENFORD CORPORATION 

Date: November 14, 2006  
     /s/ Thomas D. Malkoski

Thomas D. Malkoski  

Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 d41196exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Steven O. Cordier, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Penford Corporation;

2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this annual report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) designed such internal control over financing reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this annual report based on such evaluation;
and

d) disclosed in this annual report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

PENFORD CORPORATION 

Date: November 14, 2006  
     /s/ Steven O. Cordier

Steven O. Cordier  

Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 9
 d41196exv32.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS OF CEO AND CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

exv32 

Exhibit 32

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
(18 U.S.C.SECTION 1350) 

In connection with the Annual Report of Penford Corporation (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for
the period ended August 31, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
 Report ), Thomas D. Malkoski, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Steven O. Cordier, Chief
Financial Officer of the Company, respectively, do each hereby certify, pursuant to Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. Section 1350), that to his knowledge:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ Thomas D. Malkoski

Thomas D. Malkoski

Chief Executive Officer 

Dated: November 14, 2006

/s/ Steven O. Cordier

Steven O. Cordier

Chief Financial Officer 

Dated: November 14, 2006

</EX-32>

