<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061211_10-K_edgar_data_203527_0001193125-06-250663_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1858804</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>589730</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1029625</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>79</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>11</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-06-250663.hdr.sgml : 20061211
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061211165605
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-06-250663
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060929
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061211
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061211

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000203527
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS [3845]
		IRS NUMBER:				942359345
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0905

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07598
		FILM NUMBER:		061269035

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3100 HANSEN WAY
		CITY:			PALO ALTO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94304-1000
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6504934000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3050 HANSEN WAY
		STREET 2:		MAIL STOP E 224
		CITY:			PALO ALTO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94304-1000

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	VARIAN ASSOCIATES INC /DE/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	VARIAN DELAWARE INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19761123

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 TqDKOcHV4hukT81/NQen8N2U1vC/ZbS5n5aygkZsoSeMbQUosxooWpmAmXLz0jQh
 1Ioel5C5g8EKhS4Xudoqdw==

 0001193125-06-250663.txt : 20061211

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

     UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549             FORM 10-K        
     For the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006        OR        
     For the transition period from                        to
                              Commission File Number: 1-7598        VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC.       (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)       
     (650) 493-4000       (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)       Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
    Common Stock, $1 par value   
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    Preferred Stock Purchase Rights   
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None       Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes       No             Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes       No             Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K             Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):      

Large accelerated filer       
      
  Accelerated filer         
      
  Non-accelerated filer          
    Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).  Yes         No           As of March 31, 2006, the last business day of Registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, the aggregate market value of shares of
Registrant s Common Stock held by non-affiliates of Registrant (based upon the closing sale price of such shares on the New York Stock Exchange on March 31, 2006) was approximately $7,369,047,036. Shares of Registrant s common stock
held by the Registrant s executive officers and directors and by each entity that owns 5% or more of Registrant s outstanding common stock have been excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of
affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes.      At December 1, 2006, the number of shares of the Registrant s
common stock outstanding was 129,081,663.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE        Definitive Proxy Statement for the Company s 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders Part III of this Form 10-K         

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC.        INDEX        

Page    

PART I     

Item 1.  

Business    
      
  3   

Executive Officers of the Registrant    
      
  20   
 
  Item 1A.  

Risk Factors    
      
  21   
 
  Item 1B  

Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  39   
 
  Item 2.  

Properties    
      
  39   
 
  Item 3.  

Legal Proceedings    
      
  39   
 
  Item 4.  

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  39   

PART II     

Item 5.  

Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
      
  40   
 
  Item 6.  

Selected Financial Data    
      
  41   
 
  Item 7.  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  43   
 
  Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk    
      
  67   
 
  Item 8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  70   
 
  Item 9.  

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  117   
 
  Item 9A.  

Controls and Procedures    
      
  117   
 
  Item 9B  

Other Information    
      
  117   

PART III     

Item 10.  

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant    
      
  118   
 
  Item 11.  

Executive Compensation    
      
  118   
 
  Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
      
  119   
 
  Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions    
      
  119   
 
  Item 14.  

Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
      
  119   

PART IV     

Item 15.  

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  120   

Signatures    
      
  124   
       
   2   

Table of Contents  

    FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS        This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or MD A, contains  forward-looking  statements within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which provides a  safe harbor  for statements about future events, products and future financial performance that are based on the beliefs of, estimates made by and
information currently available to the management of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. ( we,   our  or  the Company ). The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks and
uncertainties. Actual results and the outcome or timing of certain events may differ significantly from those projected in these forward-looking statements due to the factors listed under  Risk Factors,  and from time to time in our other
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. For this purpose, statements concerning industry or market segment outlook; market acceptance of or transition to new products or technology such as intensity modulated radiation therapy,
image guided radiation therapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, brachytherapy, software, treatment techniques, and advanced X-ray products; growth drivers; future orders, revenues, backlog or earnings growth; other financial results and any statements
using the terms  believe,   expect,   expectation,   anticipate,   can,   should,   would,   could,   estimate,   appear,   based on, 
 may,   intended,   potential,   are emerging  and  possible  or similar statements are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and the
outcome and timing of certain events to differ materially from those projected or management s current expectations. By making forward-looking statements, we have not assumed any obligation to, and you should not expect us to, update or revise
those statements because of new information, future events or otherwise.        
  PART I        
  Item 1.    Business        General       We, Varian Medical Systems, Inc., are a Delaware corporation and were originally incorporated in 1948 as Varian Associates, Inc. In 1999, we transferred our instruments business to Varian, Inc., or VI, a wholly owned
subsidiary, and transferred our semiconductor equipment business to Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc., or VSEA, a wholly owned subsidiary. We retained the medical systems business, principally the sales and service of oncology products
and the sales of X-ray tubes and imaging subsystems. On April 2, 1999, we spun off VI and VSEA, which resulted in a non-cash dividend to our stockholders and which we refer to as the spin-offs in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Immediately
after the spin-offs, we changed our name to Varian Medical Systems, Inc. We have been engaged in aspects of the medical systems business since 1959. An Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement dated as of January 14, 1999 and other
associated agreements govern our ongoing relationships with VI and VSEA.       Overview       We are a world leader in the design, manufacture, sales and services of advanced equipment and software products for treating cancer with radiation. We also design, manufacture, sell and service high quality,
cost-effective X-ray tubes for original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs; replacement X-ray tubes; flat panel digital image detectors for filmless X-rays (commonly referred to as flat panel detectors or digital image detectors) for medical, dental,
veterinary, scientific and industrial applications; and linear accelerators for security and inspection purpose.      Our largest business segment is Oncology
Systems, which designs, manufactures, sells and services hardware and software products for treating cancer with radiation, including linear accelerators, treatment simulation and verification products, information management and treatment planning
software, advanced brachytherapy products and software and other sophisticated accessory products and services. Our products enable radiation oncology departments in hospitals and clinics to perform  
       
   3   

Table of Contents  

conventional radiotherapy treatments and offer the advanced treatment processes of intensity modulated radiation therapy, or IMRT, image guided radiation
therapy, or IGRT, stereotactic radiosurgery and stereotactic radiotherapy, as well as treat patients using brachytherapy techniques, which involve radiation treatment of tumors with implanted radioactive sources. Our customers include comprehensive
cancer treatment clinics, university research and community hospitals, private and governmental institutions, healthcare agencies, doctors  offices and cancer care clinics worldwide.      Our second business segment is X-ray Products, which manufactures and sells X-ray imaging components and subsystems, namely (i) X-ray tubes for use in a range of applications including computed tomography, or CT,
scanning, radioscopic/fluoroscopic imaging, mammography, special procedures and industrial applications and (ii) flat panel detectors for digital X-ray image capture, which is an alternative to image intensifier tubes for fluoroscopy and X-ray
film for radiography. Our X-ray tubes and flat panel detectors are sold to large imaging system OEMs that incorporate these X-ray imaging components and subsystems into their medical diagnostic imaging systems and industrial imaging systems. Our
X-ray tubes are also sold directly to end-users for replacement purposes. Our flat panel detectors are also being incorporated into next generation imaging equipment, including equipment for IGRT and for dental CT scanning and veterinary X-ray
imaging.      We have two other businesses that we report together under the  Other  category. Our Security and Inspection Products business, or SIP,
designs, manufactures, sells and services Linatron         
X-ray accelerators for security and inspection purposes, such as cargo screening, border protection and nondestructive examination for a variety of applications. We generally sell our Linatron X-ray accelerators to OEMs, who incorporate our
accelerators into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs agencies and other government and military agencies, as well as to commercial private parties in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive
industries. Our Ginzton Technology Center, or GTC, develops technologies that enhance our current businesses or may lead to new business areas, including next generation digital X-ray imaging technology, volumetric and functional imaging, improved
X-ray sources and technology for security and cargo screening applications. In addition, we are developing technologies and products that promise to improve disease management by more precise targeting of radiation, as well as by employing targeted
energy and molecular agents to enhance the effectiveness and broaden the application of radiation therapy.      During the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, we
separated SIP from the Oncology Systems business segment to be a standalone business and reported SIP with GTC under the  Other  category. Concurrently, we moved the Brachytherapy business unit from the  Other  category to the
Oncology Systems business segment. Both of these moves reflect how our Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Decision Maker, has begun to evaluate the BrachyTherapy operations in conjunction with the Oncology Systems business due to the
natural synergies in the area of radiation therapy oncology and the growth of the SIP into its own distinct market and business.      Our business is subject to
various risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the factors described in  Risk Factors  in conjunction with the description of our business set forth below and the other information included in this Annual Report on Form
10-K.       Radiation Therapy and the Cancer-Care Market       Radiation therapy, which is also referred to as radiotherapy, is commonly used in the treatment of cancer, either alone or in combination with surgery or chemotherapy. An important advantage of radiation therapy is that the radiation acts
with some selectivity on cancer cells. When a cell absorbs radiation, the radiation affects the cell s genetic structure and inhibits its replication, leading to its gradual death. Cancerous cells must replicate in order to cause disease;
therefore the radiation they absorb can disproportionately damage them. Currently, the most common type of radiotherapy uses X-rays delivered by external beams, also sometimes referred to as external beam radiotherapy, and is  
       
   4   

Table of Contents  

administered using linear accelerators. Linear accelerators are conventionally used for multiple, or fractionated, treatments of a tumor in up to 50
radiation sessions.      IMRT is an advanced form of radiation therapy in which the intensity and angle of the radiation beams from a linear accelerator are
varied, or modulated, across the target area of the patient being treated. This conforms the radiation beams more closely to the shape of the tumor and allows doctors to deliver higher doses of radiation to tumors while limiting the amount of
radiation directed at nearby healthy tissue. In this way, clinicians can design and deliver an individualized treatment plan for each patient, targeting the patient s tumor as closely as possible. IMRT can be used to treat head and neck,
breast, prostate, pancreatic, lung, liver, gynecological and central nervous system cancers. IMRT has become a well-accepted standard of treatment for cancer and more clinics every year, from university hospitals to local community clinics, continue
to adopt treatments using IMRT. We have been a leading provider of products to enable IMRT treatment of cancer.      IGRT is the most advanced radiation therapy
technology that complements IMRT to further enhance radiation therapy treatments. While IMRT helps doctors shape and conform the radiation beam to that of the tumor, IGRT goes to the next step of allowing doctors to accommodate for tumor movement
and avoid more healthy tissue that otherwise would be irradiated when a tumor moves or shrinks. This enables the delivery of higher doses of radiation to tumors in a more effective manner, while sparing more of the surrounding healthy tissue. IGRT
brings technologies that compensate for daily changes and movements in tumors and enables dynamic, real-time visualization and precise treatment of small, moving and changing tumors with greater intensity and accuracy. With this greater precision
offered by IGRT, clinics and hospitals are potentially able to improve outcomes by concentrating even higher doses of radiation at the tumors. We are seeing customers accept IGRT as the next significant enhancement in curative radiation therapy and
demand for our products for IGRT is one of the main contributors to net orders and revenue growth in our Oncology Systems business segment.      Stereotactic
radiosurgery (also referred to as image-guided radiosurgery) is an advanced radiation treatment procedure that employs linear accelerators and IGRT technology to eradicate cancerous, non-cancerous and functional lesions anywhere in the body, by
delivering a few very precisely placed, high dose beams of radiation.      As an alternative to the external beam radiation therapy methods described above,
brachytherapy treatments involve the insertion of radioactive seeds, wires or ribbons directly into a tumor or into a body cavity close to the cancerous area. These modalities, unlike external beam radiation therapy, do not require the radiation to
pass through surrounding healthy tissue in order to reach the tumor and the doctor can give a higher total dose of radiation in a shorter time. Brachytherapy often is used for cancers of the head and neck, breast, uterus, thyroid, cervix and
prostate.      The radiation oncology market is growing globally and a number of factors are contributing to this expansion. Annual cancer rates around the
world are projected to increase by 50% to 15 million new cases in the year 2020, as indicated by the World Cancer Report issued by the International Agency for Research on Cancer in the World Health Organization. According to the World Cancer
Report, the predicted sharp increase in new cases will mainly be due to steadily aging populations in both developed and developing countries and also due to current trends in smoking prevalence and the growing adoption of unhealthy life styles. For
example, the U.S. Census Report indicates that the population over 65 years of age in the United States is expected to increase by 41% to 48 million in 2015 from 34 million in 2000. The U.S. chart data from the National Cancer
Institute s Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program also indicates that the number of cases diagnosed annually could double in the United States to 2.6 million by 2050.      The rise in cancer cases, together with the increase in sophistication of new treatment processes, have created demand for more automated products that can be integrated
into clinically practical systems to make treatments more rapid and cost effective. Technology advances leading to improvements in patient  
       
   5   

Table of Contents  

care, the availability of more advanced, automated and efficient clinical tools in radiation therapy and the advent of more precise forms of radiotherapy
treatment, such as IMRT, IGRT, stereotactic radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery and brachytherapy, should drive the demand for our products and services, in particular those of our Oncology Systems segment, as patients seek more effective
treatments. In general, we have experienced historical cycles where the North American region tends to adopt the newest technologies at a faster rate, with adoption by the international regions tending to lag two to three years.      The international markets in particular are under-equipped with radiation therapy systems to address the growing cancer incidence. Cancer patients in many foreign
countries must frequently endure long waits for radiotherapy treatment. Many of these countries are expanding and upgrading their radiotherapy services to care for their cancer patients. The relatively weak U.S. dollar has also effectively made
pricing more competitive for U.S.-based companies such as ours. Shortages of radiotherapy equipment in the international markets and, to a lesser extent, the weak U.S. dollar represent additional drivers for continued growth in the international
markets.       Products         Oncology Systems
       Our Oncology Systems business segment designs, manufactures, sells and services equipment and software products for radiation treatment of cancer.
We are a leading provider of advanced products such as linear accelerators, treatment simulators and verification products, information management and treatment planning software and other sophisticated accessory products and services for
conventional radiation therapy, IMRT, IGRT, stereotactic radiosurgery and stereotactic radiotherapy.      The radiotherapy process typically consists of
examining the patient, planning the therapeutic approach, simulating and verifying the treatment plan, delivering treatment, verifying that the treatments are being delivered correctly, providing quality assurance for all the devices involved in the
treatment process, recording the history and results of treatment and obtaining reimbursement for the radiotherapy services provided. We provide products that help perform most of these tasks. Our focus, however, is addressing the key concerns of
the market for advanced cancer care systems, including the continuing demand for enhanced capabilities and quality of radiation therapy treatments and improved efficiency, precision, cost-effectiveness and ease of delivery of these treatments. A
core element of our business strategy is to provide our customers with highly versatile, clinically proven products that can be configured and integrated into automated systems that combine greater precision and greater cost effectiveness. We have
designed our individual products so that they can be interconnected into automated systems that enhance the entire process of treating a patient. By allowing for interconnection into automated systems, our products and technology are also more
cost-effective, since doctors are able to schedule and treat more patients within a set time period. Our products and accessories for IMRT and IGRT allow clinicians to very precisely track and treat tumors using shaped beams, thereby targeting the
tumor as closely as possible and allowing the delivery of higher doses of radiation to the tumor, while limiting exposure of nearby healthy tissue. With our treatment planning, verification and information management software products, treatment
plans, patient treatment data and images are recorded and stored in a single database shared by each of our products, which enables effective communication among products. Additionally, the precision and versatility of our products and technology
makes possible the use of radiation therapy to treat metastatic lesions, thereby allowing for multiple medical specialties radiation oncology, neurosurgery, imaging and medical oncology to share equipment, resources and information in a
more cost-effective manner.      Linear accelerators are the core device for delivering conventional radiation therapy, IMRT and IGRT treatment procedures and
we produce versions of these devices to suit various facility requirements and treatment needs. Our Clinac          medical linear accelerators are used to treat cancer by producing therapeutic electrons and X-ray beams that target tumors and other abnormalities in a patient. The  
       
   6   

Table of Contents  

Clinac iX series is the latest in this product line and these accelerators are designed to facilitate more streamlined and advanced treatment processes
including IMRT and IGRT. We also produce the Trilogy  linear accelerator, designed to be a very versatile, cost-effective, ultra-precise radiotherapy treatment product with a faster dose delivery rate and smaller isocenter. Trilogy was
developed with IGRT and stereotactic radiotherapy in mind, but is also capable of delivering conventional, 3D conformal radiotherapy and IMRT. Trilogy has the precision necessary to deliver stereotactic radiosurgery for neurosurgical treatments.
     We also manufacture and market accessory products to the linear accelerator that enhance the capabilities and efficiency of the linear accelerator in
delivering radiotherapy treatments and allow for delivery of advanced treatments such as IMRT, IGRT and stereotactic radiosurgery. Our Millennium  series of multi-leaf collimators are accessory devices that are used with a linear accelerator to
define the size, shape and intensity of the radiation beams generated by the linear accelerator. PortalVision , our electronic portal-imager, is used to verify a patient s treatment position, which is critical for accurate delivery of
radiotherapy treatments. We also offer an innovative real-time patient position monitoring product, the RPM  respiratory gating system, which allows the linear accelerator to be synchronized with patient breathing to help compensate for tumor
motion during the course of treatment. Our accessory products designed specifically for enabling IGRT include our On-Board Imager product, or OBI, which allows dynamic, real-time imaging of tumors while on the treatment couch, and the cone-beam
computerized tomography for OBI, or CBCT. CBCT allows patient positioning based on soft-tissue anatomy. Using sophisticated image analysis tools, CBCT allows comparison of the CBCT scan with a reference CT scan to determine how the treatment couch
should be moved to fine-tune the patient s treatment setup. Therefore, to deliver the most advanced forms of IGRT or stereotactic radiosurgery, a Clinac iX or Trilogy accelerator would typically also have an OBI, PortalVision and other
IGRT-related hardware and software as accessories. We also have in our product portfolio the SonArray ultrasound imaging device for patient positioning and stereotactic treatment planning software for use in developing treatment plans for
stereotactic radiosurgery.      Our software products enhance and enable the delivery of advanced radiation therapy treatments, from the initial treatment
planning and plan quality assurance verification to the post-treatment recording of treatment and image data and storing of patient information. Prior to any treatment, particularly IMRT, IGRT and stereotactic radiosurgery, physicians must plan the
course of radiation delivery for the patient. To assist physicians with developing these treatment delivery plans, we offer a range of treatment planning products. Our Eclipse  treatment planning system provides doctors with 3D image viewing,
treatment simulation, radiation dosage calculation and verification and other tools for generating treatment delivery plans for the patient. The Eclipse software utilizes a sophisticated technique known as inverse planning to enable the physicians
to rapidly develop optimal treatment plans based on a desired radiation dose outcome to the tumor and surrounding tissue. Our Argus  line of software products allows the management of quality control data for radiation therapy products.
Finally, our ARIA Oncology Information Management System, or ARIA, is the latest information management software system, which integrates the features of our previous products, VARiS         Vision  and VARiS MedOncology, as well as additional enhancements, into a new and
more comprehensive real-time information management system and database that enables users to operate filmless and paperless cancer clinics. ARIA records and verifies radiotherapy treatment procedures carried out on the linear accelerator, performs
patient charting and manages patient information and patient image data. ARIA also records and stores patient data relating to chemotherapy treatment procedures, which may be prescribed by a physician in addition to radiation therapy. Therefore,
clinics have the ability to manage treatment and patient information across radiation oncology and medical oncology procedures.      Our treatment simulators
enable physicians to simulate radiation therapy treatments prior to treatment delivery. In addition to PortalVision, our portal-imaging product, we also manufacture and sell Acuity , a simulator which uses advanced amorphous silicon imaging
technology and which has been designed to facilitate IMRT treatments both by integrating simulation more closely with treatment planning and by  
       
   7   

Table of Contents  

helping physicians deal better with tumor motions caused by breathing. In 2005, we launched the Dynamic Adaptive Radiotherapy initiative, or DART, to promote
better combined usage of imaging and planning in the delivery of radiation therapy in order to adjust for patient motion, breathing, and anatomical and physiological changes that occur during the course of therapy. Features of our products that
allow for cost-efficient decision support as well as data collection and analysis for the development of more broadly shared treatment standards will be a key component in our DART initiative. Therefore, our products for IGRT with the capabilities
offered by ARIA will be a cornerstone of DART. We expect that the guiding principles of DART will lead to a continuing string of product enhancements that improve the outcomes, standards, and cost effectiveness of cancer care and, therefore,
contribute to continuing growth for the Oncology Systems business.      In addition to offering our own suite of equipment and software products for planning
and delivering radiation therapy treatments, we have partnered with General Electric Medical Systems, or GE, in North America and established a See and Treat Cancer Care  program for radiation therapy. Through See and Treat Cancer Care, we can
offer radiation oncology facilities an integrated suite of cancer treatment tools that combines our comprehensive set of radiation therapy products with GE s advanced diagnostic imaging systems.      During the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, we moved the Brachytherapy business unit from the  Other  category to the Oncology Systems business segment.
Brachytherapy designs, manufactures, sells and services advanced brachytherapy products, including treatment planning software, high dose rate products, the VariSource  and GammaMed  afterloaders, the BrachyVision  treatment planning
system, applicators and accessories. BrachyTherapy also develops and markets the VariSeed  treatment planning system for permanent prostate seed implants.      Revenues from our Oncology Systems business segment represented 84% of total revenues for each of fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004. Our Oncology Systems business segment revenues also include service revenues. See   Customer
Services and Support.  For a discussion of Oncology Systems business segment financial information, see Note 14  Segment Information  of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        X-ray Products        Our X-ray Products business segment, or X-ray
Products, is a world leader in designing and manufacturing components and subsystems for X-ray imaging, including X-ray-generating tubes and flat panel detectors. X-ray tubes and flat panel detectors are key components of X-ray imaging systems. We
sell our products to OEMs for new system configurations and replacement X-ray tubes for installed systems. We conduct an active research and development program to focus on new technology and applications in both the medical and industrial X-ray
imaging markets.      We manufacture X-ray tubes for four primary medical diagnostic radiology applications: CT scanners; radiographic/fluoroscopic imaging;
special procedures; and mammography. We also offer a large line of industrial X-ray tubes, which consist of analytical X-ray tubes used for X-ray fluorescence and diffraction, as well as tubes used for non-destructive imaging and gauging and airport
baggage inspection systems.      Our flat panel detectors, which are based on amorphous silicon imaging technologies, have found broad application as an
alternative to image intensifier tubes or X-ray film. These flat panel detectors are being incorporated into next generation medical diagnostic and industrial imaging systems and also serve as a key component of our OBI, which helps enable IGRT.
They are also being incorporated into dental CT scanning and veterinary X-ray imaging systems. We expect that imaging equipment based on amorphous silicon technologies may be more stable and reliable, have fewer adjustments and suffer less
degradation over time than image intensifier tubes, and will be more cost effective over time than X-ray film. Sales of flat panel detectors are emerging as a key contributor to revenue growth in this segment.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

   The fundamental growth driver of this business segment is the on-going success of key OEMs that incorporate our X-ray
tube products and flat panel detectors into their medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary and industrial imaging systems. Revenues from the X-ray Products business segment represented 14%, 14% and 13% of total revenues in fiscal years 2006, 2005
and 2004, respectively. For a discussion of the X-ray Products business segment financial information, see Note 14,  Segment Information  of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        Other        We also manufacture, sell and service, through our SIP
business, Linatron          X-ray accelerators for security
and inspection purposes, such as cargo screening, border protection and nondestructive examination for a variety of applications. SIP has also developed a new type of dual energy accelerator, the Linatron K9, which can aid in automatically detecting
and alerting operators when high-density nuclear materials associated with dirty bombs or weapons of mass destruction are present during cargo screening and non-intrusive inspection of cargo containers. We generally sell our Linatron X-ray
accelerators to OEMs who incorporate them into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs agencies and other government agencies, as well as to commercial private parties for nondestructive examination of objects, such as air and sea
cargo containers and all types of transport vehicles in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries, as well as government and military inspection applications. The primary use of our SIP products delivered
during fiscal year 2006 has been in overseas ports and borders where they are used to screen for contraband, weapons, stowaways, narcotics and explosives as well as for manifest verification. Our products and technology can also be employed for use
in the sterilization of food and medical products. We believe growth in this business will be driven by security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and
taxes. As a result, this business is heavily influenced by U.S. and foreign governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities, which depend upon government budgets and appropriations and are
subject to political changes.      The Ginzton Technology Center, our research facility, identifies and addresses new and potential markets. Through GTC, we are
developing technologies that enhance our current businesses or may lead to new business areas, including next generation digital X-ray imaging technology, volumetric and functional imaging and improved X-ray sources. In addition, we are developing
technologies and products that promise to improve disease management by more precise targeting of radiation as well as by employing targeted energy and molecular agents to enhance the effectiveness and broaden the application of radiation therapy.
In the area of industrial security, GTC is engaged in a joint research project with the Palo Alto Research Center, a subsidiary of Xerox Corporation, to develop technology for security and cargo screening applications at airports and seaports under
a grant from the United States Department of Commerce. These efforts are designed to develop new products and technologies for our future business.      SIP and
GTC report their results from operations as part of the  Other  category. Combined revenues from these operations represented 2%, 2% and 3% of total revenues in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. For a discussion of segment
financial information, see Note 14  Segment Information  of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Customer Services and
Support       We maintain service centers in Milpitas, California; Las Vegas, Nevada; Des Plaines, Illinois; Clark, New Jersey; Marietta, Georgia;
Richardson, Texas; Corona, California; Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania; Buc, France; Crawley, UK; Zug, Switzerland; Copenhagen, Denmark; Brussels, Belgium; Houten, The Netherlands; Madrid, Spain; Milan, Italy; Manama, Bahrain; Mumbai, India; Tokyo and
Osaka, Japan; Beijing, Shanghai and Hong Kong, China; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; Singapore; Bangkok, Thailand;  
       
   9   

Table of Contents  

Belrose, Australia; and Sao Paulo, Brazil; as well as field service forces throughout the world for Oncology Systems customer support services. Key logistics
and education operations are located in Las Vegas, Nevada. Our network of service engineers and customer support specialists provide installation, warranty, repair, training and support services, and professional services. We generate service
revenues by providing services to customers on a time-and-materials basis and through comprehensive service contracts and software support contracts. Most of the field service engineers are our employees, but in a few foreign countries, field
services are provided by employees of dealers and/or agents. Customers can access our extensive service network by calling any of our service centers located throughout North America, Europe, Asia, Australia and Latin America.      We warrant most of our Oncology Systems products for parts and labor for twelve months. We offer a variety of post-warranty equipment service agreements and software
support agreements that permit customers to contract for the level of equipment maintenance and/or software support they require.      We believe customer
service and support are an integral part of our Oncology Systems competitive strategy. Service contract gross margin has improved in fiscal year 2006. Growth drivers for our service revenues include the increased sophistication of our products
(particularly software products, which generate software maintenance contracts) and growth in the installed base of our products. We also believe superior service capability, availability and responsiveness play an important role in marketing and
selling medical equipment and systems, particularly as the technological sophistication of the products increases. Nevertheless, many of our customers use their own internal service organizations and/or independent service organizations to service
equipment after the warranty period expires. Therefore, we cannot guarantee full conversion to maintenance or service contracts after the warranty period expires.      We warrant all of our X-ray tubes and flat panel detector products in our X-ray Products business segment. We provide technical advice and consultation for X-ray tubes and imaging subsystems products to major OEM customers from our offices
in Salt Lake City, Utah; Charleston, South Carolina; Tokyo, Japan; and Willich, Germany. Our applications specialists and engineers make recommendations to meet the customer s technical requirements within the customer s budgetary
constraints. We often develop specifications for a unique product, which will be designed and manufactured to meet a specific customer s requirements. We also maintain a technical customer support group in Charleston, South Carolina to meet the
technical support requirements of independent tube installers that use our X-ray tube products.       Marketing and Sales       We maintain direct sales forces in North America, Europe, Australia and major parts of Asia and Latin America. For our Oncology Systems segment, we use our direct sales
forces to make all of our North American sales and a combination of direct sales forces and independent distributors for the international regions. Our X-ray Products segment also employs a combination of direct sales force and independent
distributors for sales in all of its regions. Our SIP business employs a direct sales force for its sales to OEMs, governments and commercial private parties. We did not have a single customer in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 that represented 10%
or more of our total revenues.      We sell our Oncology Systems products primarily to comprehensive cancer treatment clinics, university research and community
hospitals, private and governmental institutions, healthcare agencies, doctors  offices and cancer care clinics worldwide. As a result of on-going technological development, these clinics, hospitals, institutes, agencies and doctors 
offices replace equipment and upgrade treatment capability. Sales cycles for our external beam radiation therapy products typically can be quite lengthy since many of our products are considered capital equipment and are affected by budgeting cycles
of hospitals, clinics, institutes, agencies and doctors  offices, which frequently fix capital budgets one or more years in advance. Also, as newly introduced products and international revenues comprise a  
       
   10   

Table of Contents  

greater portion of our orders and shipments, the average time period within which orders convert into revenues could lengthen and our deferred revenues may
increase and margins may fall.      Reimbursement rates in the United States usually support a return on investment for the purchase of a new system with IMRT
and IGRT capabilities in less than 18 months. However, we believe that reimbursements for existing and new treatment processes play a relatively minor role in the market for new external beam radiotherapy equipment and that the prospect of better
clinical outcomes continues to be a primary growth driver for new equipment purchases. International reimbursement rates for radiation therapy tend to be low in national health systems, yet international markets continue to invest in better
treatment capability, albeit often after it has been proven in the North American region or in other leading research centers worldwide.      Total Oncology
Systems revenues, including service revenues were $1.3 billion, $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We divide our market segments for Oncology Systems revenues into North America, Europe, Asia and
rest of the world, and these regions constituted 53%, 30%, 11% and 6%, respectively of Oncology Systems revenues during fiscal year 2006; 56%, 30%, 10% and 4%, respectively, of Oncology Systems revenues during fiscal year 2005 and 60%, 27%, 9% and
4%, respectively, of Oncology Systems revenues during fiscal year 2004.      Our X-ray Products segment sells a high proportion of its products, including
X-ray tube products and flat panel detectors, to a limited number of OEMs that incorporate our products into their imaging systems. We expect that revenues from relatively few customers will continue to account for a high percentage of X-ray
Products revenues in the foreseeable future. We supply X-ray tube products and flat panel detectors to OEMs such as Toshiba Corporation, Hitachi Medical Corporation, Shimadzu Corporation, Philips Medical Systems, GE, Sound Technologies, Inc. and
Imaging Sciences International, Inc. These OEMs for our X-ray tube products and flat panel detectors represented 69%, 68% and 73% of our total X-ray Products segment revenues during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, with the remaining
revenues coming from a large number of small OEMs and independent services companies. Total revenues for our X-ray Products segment were $228 million, $195 million and $165 million for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We divide
our market segments for X-ray Products revenues by region into North America, Europe, Asia and rest of the world, and these regions constituted 38%, 13%, 46% and 3%, respectively, of X-ray Products revenues during fiscal year 2006; 38%, 14%, 45% and
3%, respectively, of X-ray Products revenues during fiscal year 2005 and 35%, 13%, 49% and 3%, respectively, of X-ray Products revenues during fiscal year 2004.       Competition       The markets for radiation therapy equipment and software are characterized by rapidly evolving
technology, intense competition and pricing pressure. We compete with companies worldwide. Some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. These competitors could develop technologies and products that
are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. Our smaller competitors could be acquired by companies with greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more
aggressively. Some of our suppliers or distributors could also be acquired by competitors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues. Furthermore, we believe that rapid
technological changes occurring in our markets will lead to the entry of new competitors, as well as our encountering new competitors as we apply our technologies in new markets such as stereotactic radiosurgery for neurosurgical treatments. For
example, we have directed substantial product development efforts into tighter interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system and into simplifying the usability through more intuitive user interfaces and greater
software intelligence, while maintaining an  open systems  approach that allows customers the flexibility to  mix and match  individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems
or products and use the equipment for offering various modalities of  
       
   11   

Table of Contents  

radiation therapy treatment methodologies. We anticipate that these efforts will increase adoption of IMRT and IGRT and will foster greater demand for our
products from new customers and upgrades from existing customers. Conversely, one competitor is offering linear accelerator products that are  closed-ended,  dedicated-use systems that emphasize simplicity of use while sacrificing the
ability for customers to customize the system to their individual needs, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products, or use the equipment for differing modalities of radiation therapy treatment
methodologies. If we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an  open systems  approach while enabling greater interconnectivity and simplicity-of-use or if we are unsuccessful in these efforts to enable greater
interconnectivity and enhance simplicity-of-use efforts, our revenues could fail to increase or could decrease.      Our Oncology Systems customers 
equipment purchase considerations typically include: reliability, servicing, patient throughput, precision, price, payment terms, connectivity and clinical features. We sell our products on a total value to the customer basis. We believe we compete
favorably with our competitors based upon our strategy of providing a complete package of products and services in the field of radiation oncology and our continued commitment to global distribution and customer service, value-added manufacturing,
technological leadership and new product innovation. We strive to provide technologically superior, clinically proven products for substantially all aspects of radiation therapy that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical
outcomes that meet or exceed customer quality and service expectations. However, our ability to compete may be adversely affected when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, since our products are generally sold on a total value to the
customer basis. This may occur if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations that focus solely on pricing as the primary determinant in making purchase decisions. Therefore, the impact of any such
factors could have a negative effect on our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and gross margins and our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins.      We are the leading provider of medical linear accelerators and related accessories. In radiotherapy and radiosurgery markets, we compete primarily with Siemens Medical Solutions, Elekta AB, Tomotherapy Incorporated and Accuray Incorporated.
With our information and image management, simulation, treatment planning and radiosurgery products, we also compete with a variety of companies, such as Elekta AB, Philips Medical Systems, Computerized Medical Systems, Inc., North American
Scientific, Inc., Nucletron B.V. and Siemens Medical Solutions. In respect of our BrachyTherapy operations, our primary competitor is Nucletron B.V. For the service and maintenance business for our Oncology Systems products, we compete with
independent service organizations and our customers  internal service organizations.      The market for X-ray tubes is extremely competitive. Some of the
major medical diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary customers for our X-ray tubes, also manufacture X-ray tubes for use in their own imaging systems products. While we believe we are one of the leading independent suppliers of
X-ray tubes, we must compete with these in-house X-ray tube manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated companies. As a result, we must have a competitive advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product
cost, better product quality or superior technology and performance. We sell a significant volume of our X-ray tubes to OEM companies such as Toshiba Corporation, Hitachi Medical Corporation, Shimadzu Corporation, Philips Medical Systems and GE, all
of which have in-house X-ray tube production capability. In addition, we compete against other stand-alone, independent X-ray tube manufacturers such as Comet AG and IAE Industria Applicazioni Elettroniche Spa. These companies compete with us for
both the OEM business of major diagnostic imaging equipment manufacturers and the independent servicing business for X-ray tubes. The market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive. We incorporate our flat panel detectors into our next
generation equipment for IGRT within our Oncology Systems and also sell to a number of OEMs, which incorporate our flat panel detectors into their medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary and industrial imaging systems. Our significant customers
include Toshiba Corporation, Sound Technologies, Inc. and  
       
   12   

Table of Contents  

Imaging Sciences International Inc. We primarily compete against GE, Trixell, Canon, Inc. and Hologic, Inc. in our flat panel detector product line.
     Our SIP products are sold to OEMs, who incorporate our accelerators into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs agencies and other
government and military agencies, as well as to commercial private parties in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. We compete with other OEM suppliers in the market for security and inspection purposes
primarily outside of the United States, and our major competitor in this market is Nuctech Company Limited. The market for our Security and Inspection products used for nondestructive testing in industrial application is very small and highly
fractured. There is no single major competitor in this market.       Research and Development       Developing products, systems and services based on advanced technological concepts is essential to our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. We maintain a
product research and development and engineering staff responsible for product design and engineering. Research and development expenditures totaled $100 million, $82 million and $72 million in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 , respectively.
     Our research and development are conducted both within the relevant product groups within the Oncology Systems and X-ray Products businesses and through
GTC. GTC maintains technical competencies in X-ray technology, imaging physics and applications, algorithms and software, electronic design, materials science and biosciences to prove feasibility of new product concepts and to improve current
products. Present research topics include new imaging concepts, image-based radiotherapy treatment planning and delivery, real time accommodation of moving targets, functional imaging and combined modality therapy, manufacturing process
improvements, improved X-ray tubes and large-area, high resolution digital X-ray sensor arrays for cone-beam CT and other applications. GTC is also pursuing the potential of combining advances in directed energy and imaging technology with the
latest breakthroughs in biotechnology by employing targeted energy to enhance the effectiveness of biological and chemical therapeutic agents. GTC is also investigating the use of X-ray and high energy accelerator, detector, and image
processing technology for security applications. GTC accepts some sponsored research contracts from external agencies such as the U.S. government or private sources.      Within Oncology Systems, we conduct research to enhance the reliability and performance of existing products and to develop new products. This research is conducted primarily in the United States, Switzerland, Canada,
England and Finland. In addition, we support selected research programs at selected hospitals and clinics. Current research areas within Oncology Systems include linear accelerator systems and accessories for medical applications, information
systems, radiation therapy treatment planning software, image processing software, imaging devices, simulation, patient positioning and equipment diagnosis and maintenance tools. Much of the Oncology Systems research relates to our next generation
linear accelerators, other technology such as IGRT, our Monte Carlo and dose calculation algorithms for our treatment planning software products and our new electronic health records within our information management software.      Within X-ray Products, we conduct research at our Salt Lake City facility that is primarily focused on developing and improving X-ray imaging component and subsystem
products. Current research areas include bearing coating to improve X-ray tube life and reduce tube noise, and ceramic design to improve the high voltage stability of X-ray tubes. We are also working on X-ray tube designs which will operate at
higher power loadings and at higher CT rotational speed to enhance the performance of next generation CT scanners. Research activity geared toward enhancing performance of our flat panel imaging technology and expanding our imager product portfolio
is conducted primarily at our GTC facility in Mountain View, California.         
   13   

Table of Contents  

    Manufacturing and Supplies       We manufacture our medical linear accelerators in Palo Alto, California and are currently building a facility in Beijing, China. Our treatment simulator systems, some accelerator subsystems and the OBI are manufactured in Crawley, England
and some of our other accessory products in Holliston, Massachusetts, Baden, Switzerland, Helsinki, Finland, Toulouse, France and Winnipeg, Canada. We manufacture our high dose rate brachytherapy systems in Crawley, England and Haan, Germany and our
brachytherapy treatment planning products in Charlottesville, Virginia. Our SIP linear accelerators and certain radiographic products are manufactured in Las Vegas, Nevada. We manufacture our X-ray imaging component and subsystem products in Salt
Lake City, Utah (where we recently completed expansion of our facilities for additional flat panel detector production); Charleston, South Carolina; and Willich, Germany. These facilities employ state-of-the-art manufacturing techniques and several
have been honored by the press, governments and trade organizations for their commitment to quality improvement. They are certified by International Standards Organization, or ISO, under ISO 9001, ISO 13485, or ISO 9002.      Manufacturing processes at our various facilities include machining, fabrication, subassembly, system assembly and final testing. We have invested in various automated
and semi-automated equipment for the fabrication and machining of the parts and assemblies that we incorporate into our products. We may, from time to time, invest further in such equipment. Our quality assurance program includes various quality
control measures from inspection of raw material, purchased parts and assemblies through on-line inspection. We also get subassemblies from third-party suppliers and integrate them into a finished system. We outsource the manufacturing of many major
subassemblies and perform system design, assembly and testing in-house. We believe outsourcing enables us to reduce fixed costs and capital expenditures, while also providing us with the flexibility to increase production capacity. We purchase
material and components from various suppliers that are either standard products or customized to our specifications. We obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single-source supplier, such
as the source wires for high-dose afterloaders, klystrons for linear accelerators, imaging panels, non-coated array sensors and coating for array sensors for the flat panels, specialized integrated circuits for imaging subassemblies, and some
targets, housings and glass bulbs for X-ray tubes.       Backlog       Our backlog at the end of fiscal year 2006 was $1.4 billion, of which we expect to recognize approximately 60% to 65% into revenues in fiscal year 2007. Our backlog at the end of fiscal year 2005 was $1.2 billion, of which $692 million
was recognized as revenues in fiscal year 2006. Our Oncology Systems backlog represented 93% and 94% of the total backlog at the end of fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively. We recognize orders for products that are scheduled to be shipped
within two years. The majority of our orders for service contracts are also included in the backlog when it becomes billable. We also include in backlog the amount of deferred revenue related to products that have been delivered but have outstanding
contractual obligations or related to acceptance. Semi-annually, we perform a review to determine that our backlog represents valid orders that will be converted to revenues within a reasonable period of time. The backlog review entails identifying
aged backlog orders and confirming these orders with our internal sales organization. Aged orders which are not expected to be converted to revenues as a result of the backlog review are deemed dormant and are subtracted from the reported backlog.
Deferred revenue includes (i) the amount equal to the greater of the fair value of the installation services for hardware products or the amount of the payment that is contractually linked to acceptance and (ii) for a small number of
products, the entire sale price applicable to products shipped but for which installation and/or final acceptance have not been completed. As the overall mix of our backlog includes a greater proportion of software products and newly introduced
Oncology Systems products, which typically have longer time from order to completion of installation, the average time period within which backlogs convert into revenues could lengthen. Orders may be revised or canceled,  
       
   14   

Table of Contents  

either according to their terms or as customers  needs change; consequently, it is impossible to predict with certainty the amount of backlog that will
result in revenues. In fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, we reversed $41 million, $35 million and $43 million, respectively, of orders due to adjustments, revisions or cancellations. Our reported net orders included all backlog reversals.
      Product Liability       Our business exposes us to
potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture and sale of medical devices and other products that deliver radiation. Because our products are involved in: the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body; other
situations where people may come in contact with radiation (for example, when our SIP products are being used to scan cargo); the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical purposes; the planning of radiation treatment and
diagnostic imaging of the human; and the diagnosing of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists. As a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from any
faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support or the misuse of our products.       Government Regulation    
   U.S. Regulation       As a manufacturer and seller of medical devices
and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and state and local
regulatory agencies, such as the State of California, to ensure such devices are safe and effective. Such regulations, which include the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or the FDC Act, and regulations promulgated by the FDA, govern the design,
development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, possession, marketing, disposal, clinical investigations involving humans, sale and marketing of medical devices, post-market surveillance, repairs, replacements,
recalls and other matters relating to medical devices, radiation producing devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material. State regulations are extensive and vary from state to state. Our Oncology Systems equipment and software
constitute medical devices subject to these regulations. Our X-ray tube products and flat panel detectors produced by X-ray Products are also considered medical devices. Future products in any of our business segments may constitute medical devices
and be subject to regulation as such. These laws require that manufacturers adhere to certain standards designed to ensure that the medical devices are safe and effective. Under the FDC Act, each medical device manufacturer must comply with
requirements applicable to good manufacturing practices.      Our manufacturing operations for medical devices are required to comply with the FDA s
Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which addresses a company s responsibility for quality systems, the requirements of good manufacturing practices and relate to product design, testing, and manufacturing quality assurance, and the maintenance
of records and documentation. The QSR requires that each manufacturer establish a quality systems program by which the manufacturer monitors the manufacturing process and maintains records that show compliance with FDA regulations and the
manufacturer s written specifications and procedures relating to the devices. Compliance with the QSR is necessary to receive FDA clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market
cleared or approved product offerings. Among other things, these regulations require that manufacturers establish performance requirements before production. The FDA makes announced and unannounced inspections of medical device manufacturers and may
issue reports, known as Form FDA 483 reports (listing instances where the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures), or Warning Letters which, if not adequately responded to, could lead to enforcement actions
against the manufacturer, including fines and total shutdown of production facilities and criminal prosecution. Inspections usually occur every two years. Our last inspection occurred in March 2006.         
   15   

Table of Contents  

   The FDA requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant
change in, an existing medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or an approved pre-market approval application, or PMA, before the manufacturer may take orders and distribute the product in the United States. The 510(k)
clearance process is applicable when the new product being developed is substantially equivalent to an existing commercially available product. The process of obtaining 510(k) clearance generally takes at least one to three months from the date the
application is filed and generally requires submitting supporting design data, which can be extensive and can extend the process for a considerable period of time beyond three months. After a product receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that
could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, packaging, or manufacturing process may require a new 510(k) clearance. The FDA requires each
manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA can review any such decision. If the FDA disagrees with the manufacturer s decision, it may retroactively require the manufacturer to submit a request for 510(k)
pre-market notification clearance and can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the product until 510(k) clearance is obtained. If we cannot establish that a proposed product is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed
device, we must seek pre-market approval through a PMA application. Under the PMA process, the applicant must generally conduct at least one clinical protocol and submit extensive supporting data and clinical information in the PMA application to
prove the safety and effectiveness of the product. This process typically takes at least one to two years from the date the pre-market approval is accepted for filing, but can take longer for the FDA to review. To date, we have produced Class 1
medical devices, which require no pre-market approvals or clearances, and Class 2 medical devices, which require only 510(k) clearance. Our X-ray tubes and flat panel detectors are Class 1 medical devices, while all of the products produced by our
Oncology Systems segment are Class 2 medical devices.      The FDA and the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, also regulate the promotion and advertising of our
products. In general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our clearances or approvals or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims.      It is also important that our products comply with electrical safety and environmental standards, such as those of Underwriters Laboratories, or UL, the Canadian Standards Association, or CSA, and the International
Electrotechnical Commission, or IEC. In addition, the manufacture and distribution of medical devices utilizing radioactive by-product material requires a specific radioactive material license. Manufacture and distribution of these radioactive
sources and devices also must be in accordance with an approved Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or NRC certificate, or an Agreement State registration certificate. Further, service of these products must be in accordance with a specific radioactive
materials license. We are also subject to a variety of additional environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any
contamination from these materials. For a further discussion of these laws and regulations, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters.       Beyond the above-mentioned regulations, the healthcare industry and we, as a participant in the healthcare industry, are subject to extensive federal, state and local
laws and regulations on a broad array of additional subjects. Further, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, sets national standards for some types of electronic health information transactions and the data
elements used in those transactions and standards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of patient health information.      The healthcare industry is
also subject to a number of  fraud and abuse  laws and regulations, including physician self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws, and false claims laws. See   Medicare and Medicaid Reimbursement  for a description of
these laws and regulations. We also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control.         
   16   

Table of Contents  

   Failure to comply with FDA and other applicable regulations could result in a wide variety of actions against us, such
as:       

investigations, Form FDA 483 reports of non-compliance or Warning Letters;         

fines, injunctions, and civil penalties;         

partial suspensions or total shutdown of production, or the imposition of operating restrictions;         

losses of clearances or approvals already granted, or delays in or refusals of requests for clearance or approval;         

seizures or recalls of our products;         

the inability to sell our products in the applicable jurisdiction; and         

criminal prosecutions.        The laws and regulations and their enforcement are
constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. In addition, new laws and regulations may be adopted, which adversely affect our business. There has been a
trend in recent years, both in the United States and internationally, toward more stringent regulation and enforcement of requirements applicable to medical device manufacturers and requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal
data.       Medicare and Medicaid Reimbursement       The U.S.
federal government regulates reimbursement for diagnostic examinations and therapeutic procedures furnished to Medicare beneficiaries, including related physician services and capital equipment acquisition costs. For example, Medicare reimbursement
for operating costs for radiation treatment performed on hospital inpatients generally is set under the Medicare prospective payment system, or PPS, diagnosis-related group, or DRG, regulations. Under PPS, Medicare pays hospitals a fixed amount for
services provided to an inpatient based on his or her DRG, rather than reimbursing for the actual costs incurred by the hospital. Patients are assigned to a DRG based on their principal and secondary diagnoses, procedures performed during the
hospital stay, age, gender and discharge status. Medicare also reimburses pursuant to PPS for capital costs which incorporates an add-on to the DRG-based payment. Hospital outpatient services are also covered by PPS. Under the outpatient PPS system,
Medicare reimburses outpatient services according to rates calculated by Medicare for groups of covered services known as  ambulatory payment classification,  or APC, groups. Approximately 15 APC groups involve radiation oncology services.
The reimbursement for each APC group is derived from a complicated calculation that incorporates historical cost information, including capital acquisition costs. For physicians, Medicare reimburses all physicians based on two separate practice
expense values for each physician service, one for when a service is furnished in a facility setting and another for when the service is performed in a physician s office. Typically, for a service that could be provided in either setting, the
practice expense value would be higher when the service is performed in a physician s office, as it would cover a physician s costs such as equipment, supplies and overhead.      The federal government and the Congress from time to time consider various Medicare and other healthcare reform proposals that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services
in hospitals and freestanding clinics. Private insurers often establish payment levels and policies based on reimbursement rates and guidelines established by the government. The federal government reviews and adjusts reimbursement rates for medical
procedures, including radiotherapy, on an annual basis.      Reimbursement for services rendered to Medicaid beneficiaries is determined pursuant to each
state s Medicaid plan, which is established by state law and regulations, subject to requirements of federal law  
       
   17   

Table of Contents  

and regulations. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 revised the Medicaid program to allow each state more control over coverage and payment issues. In addition,
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, has granted many states waivers to allow for greater control of the Medicaid program at the state level. The impact on our business of this greater state control on Medicaid payment for
diagnostic services remains uncertain.      CMS has published a modest increase in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates for radiotherapy procedures, such
as daily treatments, planning, positioning of patients and quality assurance that will go into effect in U.S. hospitals on January 1, 2007. Based upon an analysis by American Medical Accounting   Consulting, Inc., or AMAC, we do not
expect these changes to have a material impact on our Oncology Systems business segment in the United States.      From calendar year 2006 to 2007, overall
radiotherapy reimbursement rates will rise by an average of 3% for hospitals and will fall by about 6% for free standing clinics and physicians  offices according to AMAC data. Included in the CMS rates are codes to reimburse IGRT procedures
using radiographic, fluoroscopic or computed tomography CT X-ray images for the purpose of properly positioning patients to ensure accurate delivery of radiation doses. At the announced reimbursement levels, the return on investment in the purchase
of an OBI accessory for medical linear accelerators could occur within 12 to 18 months. We do not expect reimbursement rates to have a material impact on customers  decisions whether or not to purchase products for IGRT.      The sale of medical devices including radiotherapy products, the referral of patients for diagnostic examinations and treatments utilizing such devices, and the
submission of claims to third-party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid) seeking reimbursement for such services, are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare  fraud and abuse.  These laws include physician
self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Subject to enumerated exceptions, the federal physician self-referral law, also known as Stark II, prohibits a physician from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to an entity
with which the physician (or a family member) has a financial relationship, if the referral is for a  designated health service,  which is defined explicitly to include radiology and radiation therapy services. Anti-kickback laws make it
illegal to solicit, induce, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for the referral of business, including the purchase of medical devices from a particular manufacturer or the referral of patients to a particular supplier of diagnostic
services utilizing such devices. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willfully presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to third-party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid) that are false or fraudulent, for
services not provided as claimed, or for medically unnecessary services. The Office of the Inspector General prosecutes violations of fraud and abuse laws and any violation may result in criminal and/or civil sanctions including, in some instances,
imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid.       Foreign Regulation       Our operations outside the United States are subject to regulatory requirements that vary from country to country and may differ significantly from those in the United
States. In general, our products are regulated outside the United States as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the FDA and the FTC. In addition, in foreign countries where we have operations or sell products, we are subject
to laws and regulations applicable to manufacturers of medical devices, radiation producing devices and products utilizing radioactive materials and to the healthcare industry, and laws and regulation of general applicability relating to
environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters. These laws and regulations are often comparable to or more stringent than U.S. laws and regulations. Our sales of products in foreign countries are also
subject to regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. We rely in some countries on our foreign distributors to assist us in
complying with applicable regulatory requirements.         
   18   

Table of Contents  

   The European Union, or EU, implemented a medical device directive that requires us to affix the Conformit 
Europ ene, or CE, mark to our products in order to sell the products in member countries of the EU. The CE mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and effectiveness mandated in applicable
European medical device directives, which once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the EU. The CE mark is also recognized in many countries outside the EU, such as Australia, and can assist in the clearance process. In order
to receive permission to affix the CE mark to our products, we must obtain Quality System certification,  e.g.  ISO 13485, and must otherwise have a quality management system that complies with the EU medical device directives. The ISO
promulgates standards for certification of quality assurance operations. We are certified as complying with the ISO 9001 and ISO 13485 series of standards. Several Asian countries, including Japan and China, have adopted regulatory schemes that are
comparable, and in some cases more stringent, than the EU scheme. To import medical devices into Japan, the requirements of Japan s New Medical Device Regulation must be met and a   shonin,   the approval to sell medical products
in Japan, must be obtained. Similarly in China, a registration certification issued by the State Food and Drug Administration and a China Compulsory Certification, or CCC mark, are required to sell medical devices in that country. Obtaining such
certifications on our products can be time-consuming and can cause us to delay marketing or sales of certain products in such countries.      A number of
countries, including the members of the EU, have implemented or are implementing regulations that would require manufacturers to dispose, or bear some of the costs of disposal, of their products at the end of their useful lives, and to restrict the
use of some hazardous substances in certain products sold in those countries. For a further discussion of these regulations, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical
Accounting Estimates and Contingencies.  Also, many countries where we sell our products have legislation protecting the confidentiality of personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released for inclusion in
our databases, or released to third parties.       Patent and Other Proprietary Rights       We place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes, because of the length of time and expense
associated with bringing new products through the development process and to the marketplace.      We generally rely upon a combination of patents, copyrights,
trademarks, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title, including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third
parties, to protect our propriety rights in the developments, improvements and inventions that we have originated and which are incorporated in our products or that fall within our fields of interest. As of September 29, 2006, we owned 142
patents issued in the United States and 61 patents issued throughout the rest of the world and we have 292 patent applications on file with various patent agencies worldwide. We intend to file additional patent applications as appropriate. We have
trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace. We also have agreements with third parties that provide for licensing of patented or proprietary
technology, including royalty-bearing licenses and technology cross-licenses. We are licensed by the University of Michigan under patents relating to flat panel detectors.       Environmental Matters       For a discussion of environmental matters, see  Government Regulation Foreign
Regulation  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters.          
   19   

Table of Contents  

    Financial Information about Geographic Areas       We do business globally with manufacturing in the United States and in Europe, sales operations and customers throughout the world. Roughly half of our revenues are generated from our international regions. In
addition to the potentially adverse impact of foreign regulations, see  Government Regulation Foreign Regulation,  we also may be affected by other historical factors related to our international sales such as: lower average selling
prices and profit margins; longer time periods from shipment to revenue recognition (which increases revenue recognition deferrals and time in backlog); and longer time periods from shipment to cash collection (which increases days sales
outstanding, or DSO). So to the extent that the geographic distribution of our sales continues to shift more towards international regions, our overall revenues and margins may suffer. Also, there may be adverse consequences from fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect both the affordability and competitiveness of our products and our profit margins, because we sell our products internationally predominantly in local currencies, but our cost structure is weighted
towards the U.S. dollar. We do engage in currency hedging strategies to offset the effect of currency exchange fluctuations, but the protection offered by such hedges are dependent upon the timing of transactions, forecast volatility, effectiveness
of such hedges and the extent of currency fluctuation.      We are also exposed to other economic, political and other risks inherent in doing business
globally. For an additional discussion of these risks, see  Risk Factors  in Item 1A.      For a discussion of financial information about
geographic areas, see Note 14  Segment Information  of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Employees       At September 29, 2006, we had approximately 3,900 full-time and part-time employees worldwide, 2,600 in the United States and 1,300 elsewhere. None of our employees
based in the United States are unionized or subject to collective bargaining agreements. Employees based in some foreign countries may, from time to time, be subject to collective bargaining agreements. We currently consider our relations with our
employees to be good.       Information Available to Investors       As soon as reasonably practicable after our filing or furnishing the information to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, we make the following available free of charge on our investor relations page of our website
 http://www.varian.com ; our annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K (including any amendments to those reports); and our proxy statements. Our Code of Business Ethics, Corporate Governance
Guidelines and the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation and Management Development Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee are also available on the investor relations page of our website. Additionally, we will provide
copies of our reports, proxy statements, Code of Business Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines and committee charters, without charge, to any stockholder upon written request to the Corporate Secretary at our principal executive offices.
      
  Executive Officers of the Registrant       The biographical summaries of our executive officers as of November 24, 2006 are as
follows:       

Name    
      
     Age    
      
     Position     
 
    Timothy E. Guertin   
      
  57  
      
  President and Chief Executive Officer   
 
    Dow R. Wilson   
      
  47  
      
  Executive Vice President and President, Oncology Systems   
 
    Elisha W. Finney   
      
  45  
      
  Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer   
 
    Tai-Yun Chen   
      
  54  
      
  Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller   
 
    Robert H. Kluge   
      
  60  
      
  Corporate Vice President and President, X-Ray Products   
 
    John W. Kuo   
      
  43  
      
  Corporate Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary   
       
   20   

Table of Contents  

    Timothy E. Guertin  became Chief Executive Officer in February 2006, having served as President since August 2005.
Previously, he served as Chief Operating Officer from October 2004 to February 2006, and Executive Vice President from October 2002 to July 2005. He also served as President of Oncology Systems from 1992 to January 2005. He was Corporate Vice
President from 1992 to 2002. Mr. Guertin has held various other positions in the medical systems business during his 31 years with the Company. Mr. Guertin holds a B.S. degree in electrical engineering and computer science from the
University of California at Berkeley.       Dow R. Wilson  was appointed Executive Vice President and President, Oncology Systems in August 2005. He served
as Corporate Vice President and President, Oncology Systems from January 2005 to August 2005. Prior to joining the Company in January 2005, he was Chief Executive Officer of the Healthcare-Information Technologies business in General Electric
Company, or GEC (a diversified technology and services company), from 2003 to 2005. Previously, he served as General Manager, Surgical, X-ray and Interventional Businesses and General Manager, Functional Imaging of the Healthcare-Information
Technologies business from 2002 to 2003, and was General Manager, Computed Tomography of the Healthcare-Information Technologies business from 2000 to 2002. During the previous 15 years, Mr. Wilson held various management positions within GEC.
Mr. Wilson holds a B.A. degree in English from Brigham Young University and an M.B.A. degree from Dartmouth s Amos Tuck School of Business.       Elisha W. Finney  was appointed Senior Vice President, in addition to being Chief Financial Officer, in January 2005. She was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April 1999 to January 2005. Ms. Finney has
held various other positions during her 18 years with the Company including Treasurer. She holds a B.B.A. degree in risk management and insurance from the University of Georgia and an M.B.A. degree from Golden Gate University in San Francisco.
      Tai-Yun Chen  was appointed Corporate Vice President and Corporate Controller in August 2006. From February 2006 to August 2006, Ms. Chen served
as the Company s Operations Controller. From January 2002 to February 2006, Ms. Chen was the Company s Assistant Corporate Controller, and from 2000 to January 2002 she was the Company s Director of Corporate Accounting.
Ms. Chen has served in various accounting manager positions throughout the Company during her 23 years with the Company. She holds a bachelor degree in economics from the National Chung Chi University in Taiwan and a master s degree in
managerial economics from the University of California at Santa Barbara.       Robert H. Kluge  was appointed Corporate Vice President of the Company in
April 1999. Prior to that, he had been Vice President and General Manager of our X-ray Products business since 1993. Before joining the Company in 1993, he held various positions with Picker International (an X-ray systems manufacturer). He holds a
B.A. degree in economics and an M.B.A. degree in finance from the University of Wisconsin.       John W. Kuo  was appointed Corporate Vice President,
General Counsel in July 2005 and Corporate Secretary in May 2005. Mr. Kuo joined the Company as Senior Corporate Counsel in March 2003 and became Associate General Counsel in March 2004. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Kuo was
General Counsel and Secretary at BroadVision, Inc. (an e-commerce software provider) in 2002 and held senior legal counsel positions at 3Com Corporation (a networking equipment provider) from 1997 to 2002. Mr. Kuo has been previously with the
law firms of Gray Cary Ware   Freidenrich (now DLA Piper Rudnick Gray Cary) and Fulbright   Jaworski. Mr. Kuo holds a B.A. degree in biology and society from Cornell University and a J.D. degree from Boalt Hall School of
Law at the University of California at Berkeley.       
  Item 1A.    Risk Factors       The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.  
       
   21   

Table of Contents  

Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of
the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.        IF WE ARE
UNABLE TO ANTICIPATE OR KEEP PACE WITH CHANGES IN THE MARKETPLACE AND THE DIRECTION OF TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION AND CUSTOMER DEMANDS, OUR PRODUCTS MAY BECOME LESS USEFUL OR OBSOLETE AND OUR OPERATING RESULTS WILL SUFFER        The marketplace for our Oncology Systems products is characterized by rapid change and technological innovation. Because our products often have long development and
government approval cycles, we must anticipate changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands. For example, most of our recent product introductions in our Oncology Systems business segment have related
to IMRT and the relatively new technology of IGRT, and enhancements of existing products through greater systems integration and simplification.      We believe
that IMRT has become a well-accepted standard of treatment in the radiation oncology market; however, if future studies contradict current knowledge about IMRT or call into question the effectiveness of our products or show negative side effects or
if other more effective technologies are introduced, our revenues could fail to increase or could decrease. Our success will depend upon the continued growth in awareness, acceptance and success of IMRT in general and acceptance of our products
utilizing this technology in particular. However, as more institutions purchase IMRT-equipped linear accelerators or upgrade their existing accelerators with IMRT technology, the market for IMRT-related products may become saturated and we would
face competition from newer technologies. We have seen and continue to expect that the rate of growth for IMRT-related equipment will be lower than what we have experienced previously, particularly in the North American market, as over 50% of our
customer sites worldwide have the products and accessories necessary to perform the most advanced forms of IMRT. Our future success, therefore, will depend on our ability to accurately anticipate and capitalize on new customer demands through
technological innovations and changes, including new technologies for treatment such as IGRT.      IGRT is the most advanced radiation therapy technology that
complements IMRT to further enhance radiation therapy treatments, and we continue to invest in product development relating to IGRT treatment capabilities. We are seeing customers accept IGRT as the next significant enhancement in curative radiation
therapy, and demand for of our products for IGRT is as one of the main contributors to net orders and revenues growth in our Oncology Systems business segment. Our future success will depend upon the wide-spread awareness, acceptance and adoption by
the radiation oncology market of IGRT and our IGRT products as an evolutionary technology and methodology for radiotherapy treatment of cancers. IMRT drove high order and revenue growth in North America from 1999 to 2003. We believe hospitals and
clinics are converting to this new clinical process as early IGRT sites demonstrate the efficiency and effectiveness of IGRT. If our assumptions regarding the future importance of IGRT are incorrect, if IGRT fails to be effective as a treatment
methodology, or if IGRT fails to become widely accepted, our orders and revenues could fail to increase or could decrease.      As radiation oncology treatment
becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly interested in the interconnectivity and simplicity of use of our various products for treating patients. For example, our linear accelerators, treatment simulators, treatment verification products
and treatment planning and information management software products are highly sophisticated and require a high level of training and education in order to competently and safely use them. The complexity and training requirements are further
increased by the products  capability of operating together within integrated environments. We have directed substantial product development efforts into better interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system and
into simplifying the usability through more intuitive user interfaces and greater software intelligence, while maintaining an  open systems  approach that allows customers the flexibility to  mix and match  individual products,
incorporate products from other  
       
   22   

Table of Contents  

manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various modalities of radiation therapy treatment
methodologies. We anticipate that these efforts will increase the acceptance and adoption of IMRT and IGRT and will foster greater demand for our products from new customers and upgrades from existing customers. However, we face competition from
 closed-ended  dedicated-use systems that emphasize simplicity of use while sacrificing the ability for customers to customize the system to their individual needs, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with
other systems or products, or use the equipment for differing modalities of radiation therapy treatment methodologies. If we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an  open systems  approach while enabling greater
integration and simplicity-of-use, or if we are unsuccessful in these efforts to enable greater integration and enhance simplicity-of-use efforts, our revenues could fail to increase or could decrease.      Our X-ray Products business segment sells products primarily to a limited number of OEM customers who incorporate our products into their diagnostic imaging systems. Some
of these companies also manufacture X-ray tubes or flat panel detectors for their own systems. We, therefore, compete with these in-house X-ray tube and flat panel detector manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated systems
businesses. To succeed, we must provide X-ray tube and flat panel detector products that meet our customer demands for lower cost, better product quality and/or superior technology and performance. If we are unable to continue to innovate our X-ray
Products technology and anticipate our customers  demands in the areas of cost, quality, technology and performance, then our revenues could fail to increase or could decrease as our customers purchase from their internal manufacturing
operations or from other independent X-ray tube or flat panel detector manufacturers.      We may be unable to accurately anticipate changes in our markets and
the direction of technological innovation and demands of our customers, our competitors may develop improved products or processes, or the marketplace may conclude that the task our products were designed to do is no longer an element of a generally
accepted diagnostic or treatment regimen. If this occurs, the market for our products may be adversely affected and they may become less useful or obsolete. Any development adversely affecting the market for our products would force us to reduce
production volumes or to discontinue manufacturing one or more of our products or product lines and would reduce our revenues and earnings.        IF WE
ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP NEW GENERATIONS OF PRODUCTS AND ENHANCEMENTS TO EXISTING PRODUCTS, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ATTRACT OR RETAIN CUSTOMERS OR GAIN ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS BY CUSTOMERS        Our success depends upon the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products, treatment systems and enhancements to and/or
simplification of existing products. Our Oncology Systems products are technologically complex and must keep pace with, among other things, new product introductions of our competitors. Our X-ray Products business segment must also continually
innovate to develop products with lower cost, better product quality and superior technology and performance. Accordingly, many of our products require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and
manufacturing process levels. These activities require significant capital commitments and investments on our part, which we may be unable to recover. In addition, a few of our research and development projects are funded by government contracts.
Changes in government priorities and our ability to attract similar funding may affect our overall research effort and ultimately, our ability to develop successful new products and product enhancements.      Our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products, treatment systems and product enhancements and simplifications, and the revenues and costs associated with
these efforts, are affected by our ability to:       

properly identify customer needs;           
   23   

Table of Contents  

prove feasibility of new products;         

limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production;         

comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes timely and efficiently;         

limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals;         

accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products;         

price our products competitively;         

manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of
the products;         

manage customer acceptance and payment for products;         

manage customer demands for retrofits of both new and old products; and         

anticipate and compete successfully with competitors  efforts.        Additionally, our ability to gain healthcare market acceptance and demand for our new Oncology Systems products and treatment procedures may be also affected by the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases,
which frequently fix budgets one or more years in advance. In addition, even if customers accept new products or product enhancements, the revenues from these products may not be sufficient to offset the significant costs associated with making them
available to customers or we may have longer sales and ordering timeframes due to customer budgeting cycles.      We cannot be sure that we will be able to
successfully develop, manufacture and phase in new products, treatment systems or product enhancements. The roll-out of new products, systems and product enhancements involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the
Quality System Regulation, or QSR, of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA. Failure to complete these processes timely and efficiently could result in delayed introduction of new products, systems and product enhancements. Without the
successful introduction of new products, systems and product enhancements, we may be unable to attract and retain customers, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer. Additionally, if we fail to successfully manage the transition from
old products to new products, systems and product enhancements, our customers may delay or cancel orders, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results.      As we roll out new products, the installation times associated with those new products generally are longer than with well-established products. Because recognition of a portion of the revenue associated with those
new products is tied to installation and acceptance of the product, our recognition of revenue associated with those products may be deferred longer than expected. While we are working to decrease the installation times associated with new products,
we cannot assure you that these plans will be successful or have a meaningful impact on reducing the associated revenue recognition deferrals. Furthermore, even if our plans to decrease installation times are successful, potential customers may not
decide to upgrade their equipment. As a result, our revenues may be adversely impacted over a longer period of time, and our financial results, could be adversely affected.        ROUGHLY HALF OF OUR REVENUES ARE INTERNATIONAL, AND ECONOMIC, POLITICAL AND OTHER RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SALES OR MAKE THEM LESS PREDICTABLE
       We conduct business globally. Our international revenues accounted for approximately 49%, 47% and 44% of revenues during fiscal years 2006, 2005
and 2004, respectively. As a result, we must provide  
       
   24   

Table of Contents  

significant service and support on a worldwide basis, and we have sales and service offices located throughout Europe, Asia, Latin America and Australia. In
addition, we have manufacturing and research operations in England, Germany, Switzerland, France and Finland, and are building a manufacturing facility in China. We have invested and will continue to invest substantial financial and management
resources to develop an international infrastructure to meet the needs of our customers. We intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets, although we cannot be sure we will be able to compete successfully in the international
markets or meet the service and support needs of our customers there. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including:       

the difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through many foreign country s legal systems;         

the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers;         

the possibility that foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade;

the fact that international regions typically have a longer period from shipment to revenue recognition resulting in greater revenue recognition deferrals, higher backlog and a
lower gross margin on our products;         

our ability to obtain U.S. export licenses and other required export or import licenses or approvals;         

failure to comply with U.S. export laws and requirements which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to export our products, particularly our
industrial linear accelerator products;         

changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region; and         

the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries.        Also, historically, our international sales have had lower average selling prices and gross margins. So, as the geographic distribution of our orders and sales shifts increasingly towards our international regions,
our overall rate of orders growth (measured in U.S. dollars) could slow down and overall revenues and gross margins may be negatively affected.        OUR
RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CHANGES IN FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES        Since we sell our products internationally and have international
operations, we are also subject to market risk due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect product demand, our expenses and/or the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services provided by us in foreign markets
where payment for our products and services or of our expenses is made in the local currency. We manage this risk through established policies and procedures that include the use of derivative financial instruments. We have historically entered into
foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the effects of operational (sales orders) and balance sheet exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our forward exchange contracts generally range from one to twelve
months in original maturity.      Although we engage in hedging strategies that may offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the
protection these strategies provide will be affected by the timing of transactions, the effectiveness of the hedges (measured by how closely the changes in fair value of the hedging instrument offset the changes in fair value of the hedged item),
the number of transactions that are hedged, forecast volatility and the extent of movement of foreign currency exchange rates. If our hedging strategies are not effective in offsetting the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates,
our operating  
       
   25   

Table of Contents  

results may be harmed. In addition, because currencies fluctuate and we engage in hedging strategies over time, movement in foreign currency exchange rates
could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not another, and therefore make comparing our financial results from period to period more difficult.      In addition, long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates could affect the competitiveness of our products. Even though sales of our products internationally occur predominantly in local currencies, our cost
structure is weighted towards the U.S. dollar, and some of our competitors may have cost structures based in other currencies, so our overall margins and pricing competitiveness may be adversely affected. In fact, in the recent past, we have
benefited from the relatively weak U.S. dollar that has made our pricing more competitive with our foreign competitors. This has been a contributor to our international order and revenue growth. Any significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar
against other countries  currencies may result in slower growth in our international orders and revenues, which then could negatively affect our overall financial performance and results. The relative weakness of the U.S. dollar against other
currencies has been a subject of policy discussions within the U.S. government and among other countries  governments. Changes in monetary or other policies will likely affect foreign currency exchange rates.        WE FACE SIGNIFICANT COSTS IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO THE MANUFACTURE AND DISTRIBUTION OF OUR PRODUCTS, AND IF WE FAIL OR ARE
DELAYED IN OBTAINING REGULATORY CLEARANCES OR APPROVALS OR FAIL TO COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO DISTRIBUTE OUR PRODUCTS OR MAY BE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT PENALTIES        Our products and the products of OEMs that incorporate our products are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation, both in the United States and in foreign
countries. Compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and time-consuming, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business.      In the United States, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA
and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the State of California, to ensure the devices are safe and effective. These regulations govern, among other things, the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution,
import/export, sale and marketing of our products.      Unless an exception applies, the FDA requires that medical devices receive 510(k) pre-market clearance
or pre-market approval before we, as a manufacturer of medical devices, can take orders for or sell those products in the United States. In addition, modifications or enhancements to these products that could significantly affect safety or
effectiveness, or that constitute a major change in intended use, require further FDA clearance or approval. Obtaining FDA clearances or approvals is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. We may fail to obtain the necessary clearances or
approvals or may be unduly delayed in doing so. Furthermore, even if we are granted regulatory clearances or approvals, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses of the product, which may limit the market for those products. If
we were unable to obtain required FDA approval or clearance for a product, or were limited or unduly delayed in doing so, our business would suffer. In the past, our products have either been subject to 510(k) clearance or exempt from 510(k)
clearance. The 510(k) clearance process is generally less time-consuming, expensive and uncertain than the premarket approval, or PMA, process. If we were required to use the PMA approval process for future products or product modifications, it
could delay or prevent release of the proposed products or modifications, and could cause our business to suffer.      Our manufacturing operations are required
to comply with the FDA s QSR, which addresses the design, controls, methods, facilities and quality assurance used in manufacturing, assembly, packing, storing and installing medical devices. The FDA makes announced and unannounced inspections
to determine  
       
   26   

Table of Contents  

compliance with the QSR and in connection with these inspections has issued and in the future may issue reports or written notices listing instances where we
have failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures or may issue Warning Letters citing failure to comply with applicable regulations or procedures. If a Warning Letter were issued, we would be required to take prompt corrective
action to come into compliance. Failure to timely respond to a Warning Letter or notice of noncompliance and to come into compliance could result in the FDA bringing enforcement action against us, which could include the shutdown of our production
facilities and criminal and civil fines. Additionally, if a Warning Letter were issued, customers could delay purchasing decisions or cancel orders, and we could face increased pressure from our competitors, who could use the Warning Letter against
us in competitive sales situations, either of which could adversely affect our business and stock price.      The FDA also regulates the promotion and
advertising for our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, and that there is scientific data to substantiate the claims. If the FDA determines that any of our promotional claims are not permissible,
we may be required to revise our promotional claims or may be subject to enforcement actions.      Our medical devices utilizing radioactive material are
subject to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or NRC, clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture and sale of these products are subject to extensive state regulation that varies from state to state. Our manufacture and distribution of
medical devices utilizing radioactive material also requires us to obtain a number of licenses and certifications for these devices and materials. Service of these products must also be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. We
are also subject to a variety of environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these
materials.      As a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to extensive laws and regulations protecting the privacy and integrity of
patient medical information, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA,  fraud and abuse  laws and regulations such as physician self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws and false claims
laws. We also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control.      If we or any of our suppliers or distributors fail to comply with FDA and other applicable regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply,
it can result in a wide variety of actions, such as:       

adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers;         

increased pressures from our competitors;         

investigations, notices of non-compliance or Warning Letters;         

fines, injunctions, and civil penalties;         

partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities, or the imposition of operating restrictions;         

increased difficulty in obtaining required FDA clearances or approvals;         

losses of clearances or approvals already granted, or the refusal of future requests for clearance or approval;         

seizures or recalls of our products;         

delays in purchasing decisions by customers;         

the inability to sell our products; and         

criminal prosecutions.           
   27   

Table of Contents  

   Government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of
future products or services that we may develop, and/or may impose costly requirements on our business.        WE FACE SIGNIFICANT COSTS IN ORDER TO COMPLY
WITH FOREIGN LAWS AND REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO THE MANUFACTURE AND DISTRIBUTION OF OUR PRODUCTS.        Our operations and sales of our products outside
the United States are subject to regulatory requirements that vary from country to country, and may differ significantly from those in the United States. In general, our products are regulated outside the United States as medical devices by foreign
governmental agencies similar to the FDA. We are also subject to laws and regulations outside the United States applicable to manufacturers of radiation producing devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, and laws and regulations of
general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters, in each case that are often comparable, if not more stringent, than regulation in the United States. Our
sales of products in foreign countries are also subject to regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, environmental and product recycling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations,
duties and tax requirements. In some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements. We may be required to incur significant time and expense in obtaining and maintaining regulatory
approvals. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory approvals, the loss of previously obtained approvals or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could restrict or prevent us from doing business in the
applicable country or subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, which would adversely affect our business.        PRODUCT DEFECTS MAY RESULT IN
MATERIAL PRODUCT LIABILITY OR PROFESSIONAL ERRORS AND OMISSIONS CLAIMS, INVESTIGATION BY REGULATORY AUTHORITIES OR PRODUCT RECALLS THAT COULD HARM FUTURE REVENUES AND REQUIRE US TO PAY MATERIAL UNINSURED CLAIMS        Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other
devices that deliver radiation. Because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body; other situations where people may come in contact with radiation (for example, when our SIP products are being used to scan
cargo); the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical purposes; the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body; and the diagnosing of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or
death exists. Our medical products are used as part of an overall process that takes place within our customers  facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance, or QA, procedures established by the facility that ultimately result
in the delivery of radiation to patients. As a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers or others for damages resulting from the faulty or allegedly faulty design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support or the
misuse of our products. We may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. Additionally, errors or
accidents in treatment may arise from the fact that our products operate in complex environments with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized. In any accident case, we could be subject to
legal costs, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. Furthermore, adverse publicity regarding accidents or mistreatments involving radiation therapy could adversely impact our business
by negatively affecting the reputation of radiation therapy in general, causing patients to question the efficacy of radiation therapy as a viable treatment for cancer and seek other modalities of treatment.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

   In addition, if a product we designed or manufactured were defective (whether due to design, labeling or manufacturing
defects, improper use of the product or other reasons), we may be required to recall the product and notify regulatory authorities. Product recalls may also result in unexpected financial accruals under generally accepted accounting principles in
the United States of America, or GAAP that may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. The adverse publicity resulting from any of these actions could cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. These recalls,
especially if accompanied by unfavorable publicity or termination of customer contracts, could result in our incurring substantial costs and management time, losing revenues and damaging our reputation, each of which would harm our business.
     We maintain limited product liability insurance coverage in amounts we deem sufficient for our business and currently self-insure professional
liability/errors and omission liability. The product liability insurance policies that we maintain are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. In the future, these policies may not be available on acceptable terms or
in sufficient amounts, if at all. In addition, the insurance coverage we have obtained may not be adequate. A successful material claim brought against us relating to a self-insured liability or a liability that is in excess of our insurance
coverage, or for which insurance coverage is denied or limited would require us to pay damage amounts that could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation.        THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE COMPETE ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, AND WE MAY LOSE MARKET SHARE TO COMPANIES WITH GREATER RESOURCES OR WHICH ARE ABLE TO DEVELOP MORE
EFFECTIVE TECHNOLOGIES, OR WE COULD BE FORCED TO REDUCE OUR PRICES        The markets for radiation therapy equipment and software are characterized by
rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure. Many of the companies with which our Oncology Systems business compete have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Also, we expect that the rapid
technological changes occurring in our markets will lead to the entry of new competitors into our markets, as well as our encountering new competitors as we apply our technologies in new markets such as stereotactic radiosurgery for neurosurgical
and extracranial treatments. Our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to provide technologically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, together in
a complete package of products and services, and to do so ahead of our competitors. Our ability to compete in the radiation therapy market may be adversely affected when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, because our products are
generally sold on a total value to the customer basis. This may occur if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations that focus solely on pricing as the primary determinant in making purchase decisions.
In our sales of linear accelerator products for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, we compete primarily with Siemens Medical Solutions, Elekta AB, Tomotherapy Incorporated and Accuray Incorporated. We compete with a variety of companies, such as Elekta
AB, Philips Medical Systems, Computerized Medical Systems, Inc., North American Scientific, Inc., Nucletron B.V. and Siemens Medical Solutions in our software products, treatment simulation and verification products and accessories product lines. We
also have begun to encounter some competition from providers of hospital information systems. In respect of our BrachyTherapy business, our primary competitor is Nucletron B.V. For the service and maintenance business for our products, we compete
with independent service organizations and our customers  internal service organizations.      The market for X-ray imaging components and subsystems is
extremely competitive, with our competitors frequently having greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Some of the major diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary OEMs for our X-ray tubes, also manufacture
X-ray tubes for use in their own imaging systems products. We must compete with these in-house manufacturing operations that are naturally favored by their affiliated companies. As a result,  
       
   29   

Table of Contents  

we must have a competitive advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality or superior technology
and performance. We sell a significant volume of our X-ray tubes to OEMs such as Toshiba Corporation, Hitachi Medical Corporation, Shimadzu Corporation, Philips Medical Systems and GE, all of which have in-house X-ray tube production capability. In
addition, we compete against other stand-alone X-ray tube manufacturers such as Comet AG and IAE Industria Applicazioni Elettroniche Spa. These companies compete with us in both the OEM business and the independent servicing business for X-ray
tubes. The market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive, and we primarily compete against GE, Trixell S.A.S., Canon, Inc. and Hologic, Inc. in our flat panel detector product line.      In our SIP business, we compete with other OEM suppliers in this market, primarily outside of the United States, and our major competitor in this market is Nuctech
Company Limited. The market for our SIP products used for nondestructive testing in industrial application is very small and highly fractured. There is no single major competitor in this market.      In each of our business segments, existing competitors  actions and new entrants may adversely affect our ability to compete. These competitors could develop
technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, the timing of our competitors  introduction of products into the market could
affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. Some competitors offer specialized products that are or may be perceived by customers to provide a marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. Also, some of our
competitors may not be subject to or operate under the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal requirements that we do, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services.
Any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. In
addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. Our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors,
which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses. Any of these competitive factors could negatively affect our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and gross
margins and our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins.        INTEROPERABILITY OF OUR PRODUCTS WITH ONE ANOTHER AND THEIR COMPATIBILITY
WITH THIRD- PARTY PRODUCTS IS BECOMING INCREASINGLY IMPORTANT, AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MAKE OUR PRODUCTS INTEROPERATE WITH ONE ANOTHER OR COMPATIBLE WITH WIDELY USED THIRD-PARTY PRODUCTS, SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS COULD DECREASE        As radiation therapy becomes more and more complex, our customers are increasingly concerned about the interoperability and compatibility of the various products they use
in providing treatment to patients. For example, our linear accelerators, treatment simulators, treatment verification products, treatment planning and information management software products are designed to interoperate with one another, and to be
compatible with other widely used third-party radiation oncology products. Obtaining and maintaining this interoperability and compatibility is costly and time-consuming. When third parties modify the design or functionality of their products, it
can require us to modify our products to ensure compatibility. Conversely, when we implement design improvements to our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to interoperability issues; for example, a clinic may be
unwilling to implement new Varian technology because its third-party software network provider does not yet have a proper software interface available. In addition, our ability to obtain compatibility with third-party products can depend on the
third parties  providing us with adequate information regarding their products. In many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may time their product changes, and their sharing of relevant information with us, to place us at a
competitive disadvantage.  
       
   30   

Table of Contents  

Further, we could be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances for any modification of our products due to interoperability issues with the
products of third parties. It is also possible that, despite our best efforts, we may be unable to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our
products less attractive or more costly to our customers.        WE MAY INCUR SUBSTANTIAL COSTS IN PROTECTING OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, AND IF WE ARE NOT
ABLE TO DO SO, OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION WOULD BE HARMED        We file applications as appropriate for patents covering new products and manufacturing
processes. We cannot be sure, however, that any of the following will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors: our current patents; the claims allowed under our current patents; patents that will be issued from
any of our pending or future patent applications; or patents for technologies licensed to us. Issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with
competitive advantages. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources if we have to assert our patent rights against others in litigation or other legal proceedings. An unfavorable outcome in any such litigation or
proceeding could harm us. In addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so.      We also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic
partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary rights. We cannot assure you that these protections will prove adequate, that contractual agreements will not be breached, that we will have
adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by others. We have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer
recognition for our products in the marketplace. We cannot assure you that unauthorized third parties will not use our trademarks. We also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. If we were
to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer.        THIRD PARTIES MAY CLAIM WE ARE INFRINGING THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, AND WE COULD SUFFER SIGNIFICANT LITIGATION OR LICENSING EXPENSES OR BE PREVENTED FROM SELLING OUR PRODUCTS        The industries in which we compete are characterized by a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights. Our competitors, like
companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies  products for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. Determining whether a product infringes a third party s intellectual property
rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is often uncertain. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe those intellectual
property rights. While we do not believe that any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may not be aware of intellectual property rights of others that relate to our products, services or technologies.
From time to time, we have received notices from third parties asserting infringement and we have been subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. Any dispute regarding patents or other
intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in any such dispute. We also do not maintain insurance for such
intellectual property infringement. Therefore, if we are unsuccessful in defending any such infringement claim, we may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of our products, or may be required to enter into
costly royalty  
       
   31   

Table of Contents  

or license agreements. We cannot assure you that any licenses required would be made available to us on acceptable terms or at all.        SINCE WE DEPEND UPON A LIMITED GROUP OF SUPPLIERS, AND IN SOME CASES SOLE SOURCE SUPPLIERS, FOR SOME PRODUCT COMPONENTS, THE LOSS OF A SUPPLIER OR ANY INABILITY TO
SUPPLY THESE COMPONENTS COULD REDUCE OUR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE PRODUCTS, CAUSE MATERIAL DELAYS IN OUR ABILITY TO DELIVER PRODUCTS, OR SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASE OUR COSTS        We obtain some of the components and subassemblies included in our products from a limited group of suppliers, or in some cases a single-source supplier. Examples include the source wires for high-dose afterloaders;
klystrons for linear accelerators; imaging panels; non-coated array sensors; coating for array sensors for the flat panel detectors; specialized integrated circuits for imaging subassemblies; and some targets, housings and glass bulbs for X-ray
tubes. If we lose any of these suppliers, we would be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement suppliers, which may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain
clearance, qualification or certification of such product by the FDA or other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. Events like these would likely cause material delays in delivery and could significantly increase costs for the
affected product. Although we have obtained limited insurance to protect against business interruption loss, we cannot assure you that this insurance coverage will be adequate or that it will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at
all. Additionally, some of these suppliers, including our single-source suppliers, supply components in rapidly growing product lines. Manufacturing capacity limitations of any of these suppliers or the inability of these suppliers to be able to
meet increasing demand are also possibilities that could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for any of our product lines and higher costs of manufacturing for us as prices increase for these components and subassemblies
due to shortage and greater demand. Disruptions or loss of any of our limited- or sole-source components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies, including the ones referenced above, could
adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships.        WE SELL OUR X-RAY TUBES TO A LIMITED NUMBER OF OEM
CUSTOMERS, MANY OF WHOM ARE ALSO OUR COMPETITORS, AND THE LOSS OR REDUCTION IN PURCHASING VOLUME BY ONE OR MORE OF THESE CUSTOMERS OR CONSOLIDATION AMONG OEMs IN THE X-RAY TUBE PRODUCTS MARKET COULD REDUCE OUR SALES OF X-RAY TUBE PRODUCTS
       We sell our X-ray tube products to a limited number of OEM customers, many of whom are also our competitors, for incorporation into diagnostic
imaging systems. The loss of, or reduction in purchasing volume by, one or more of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our X-ray Products business. There has been a consolidation of diagnostic imaging systems manufacturers over
the past few years. The ongoing consolidation of customers, who purchase our X-ray tube products, including the consolidation of these customers into companies that already manufacture X-ray tubes, could result in less predictable and reduced sales
of our X-ray tube products. In addition, our OEM customers  products, which also use our tubes, could lose market share to competitive products or technologies and, thereby, result in a reduction in our orders and revenues.        WE SELL OUR LINATRON          X-RAY ACCELERATORS TO OEM CUSTOMERS WHO DEPEND ON CUSTOMER DELIVERY AND ACCEPTANCE SCHEDULES, WHICH MAY CAUSE ORDERS FOR OUR SECURITY AND INSPECTION PRODUCTS TO BE UNPREDICTABLE
       Our SIP business designs, manufactures, sells and services Linatron X-ray accelerators for security and inspection purposes. We generally sell our
accelerators to OEMs who incorporate them into their inspection products, which are then sold to customs agencies and other government agencies, as well as  
       
   32   

Table of Contents  

to commercial private parties. We believe growth in this business will be driven by security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the
needs of customs agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and taxes. However, use of linear accelerator technology in security cargo screening and border protection is in its early stages. Orders for our security and inspections products
may be unpredictable and the actual timing of sales and revenue recognition will vary significantly, as it is difficult to predict our OEM customer delivery and acceptance schedules.      In addition, our SIP business is heavily influenced by U.S. and foreign governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities, all of which depend upon government
budgets and appropriations that are subject to political changes. These influences are inherently unpredictable, and may cause uncertainty and variability in the timing of orders. Thus, orders in any quarter or period are not necessarily directly
correlated to the level of sales or revenues in any particular future quarter or period. This unpredictability in orders, sales and revenue timing could cause volatility in our revenues and earnings, and therefore our stock price.        IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROVIDE THE SIGNIFICANT EDUCATION AND TRAINING REQUIRED FOR THE HEALTHCARE MARKET TO ACCEPT OUR PRODUCTS, OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER
       In order to achieve market acceptance for our Oncology Systems products, we are often required to educate physicians about the use of a new
treatment procedure such as IMRT and IGRT, overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh
its costs and help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of our products. For example, the complexity and dynamic nature of IMRT and IGRT requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of IMRT and
IGRT and the required departures from their customary practices. We have expended and will continue to expend significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of IMRT and IGRT generally and to encourage acceptance and
adoption of our products for IMRT and IGRT. The timing of our competitors  introduction of products and the market acceptance of their products may also make this educational process more difficult. We cannot be sure that any products we
develop will gain any significant market acceptance and market share among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if the required regulatory approvals are obtained.        WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN OR EXPAND OUR BUSINESS IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO RETAIN, HIRE AND INTEGRATE SUFFICIENTLY QUALIFIED PERSONNEL        Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, expand, integrate, train and retain our management team, qualified engineering personnel, technical personnel and sales and marketing
staff. The loss of services of key employees could adversely affect our business. Competition for key personnel can be intense. We compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers and technology companies, as well as
universities and research institutions. Because the competition for qualified personnel is intense, costs related to compensation could increase significantly if supply decreases or demand increases. If we are unable to hire, train or retain
qualified personnel, we will not be able to maintain and expand our business.        IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO MATCH OUR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY WITH DEMAND FOR
OUR PRODUCTS, OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS MAY SUFFER        As a manufacturer of products with a long production cycle, we need to anticipate demand for our
products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate demand adequately or to adjust our resources appropriately. If our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace
with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which in turn may have a negative effect on our financial results and overall  
       
   33   

Table of Contents  

business. Conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may adversely affect our financial
results.        WE MAY ATTEMPT TO ACQUIRE NEW BUSINESSES, PRODUCTS OR TECHNOLOGIES, AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETE THESE ACQUISITIONS OR TO
INTEGRATE ACQUIRED BUSINESSES, PRODUCTS, TECHNOLOGY OR EMPLOYEES, WE MAY FAIL TO REALIZE EXPECTED BENEFITS OR HARM OUR EXISTING BUSINESS        Our
success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings and grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, as a strategy to achieve quicker time to
market for new products or technology, or to enter new markets, we may determine to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. For example, in the second
quarter of fiscal year 2005, we acquired Sigma Micro Informatique Conseil, a privately held French supplier of information management software for radiation oncology and medical oncology. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be
difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. In addition, the completion of an acquisition could divert our management and key personnel from our
business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. Furthermore, even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products or technologies or employees
into our operations, and the process of integration could be expensive, time-consuming and may strain our resources. In many instances, this will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at businesses
that lack them. In addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company s customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be
our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated growth or other benefits from an acquisition, which could harm our existing business. In addition, future acquisitions could result in
potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges such as in-process research and development, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results.
       WE UTILIZE DISTRIBUTORS FOR A PORTION OF OUR SALES, THE LOSS OF WHICH COULD HARM OUR REVENUES IN THE TERRITORY SERVICED BY THESE DISTRIBUTORS
       We have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products, principally in foreign countries. If these
strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected.        HEALTHCARE REFORMS, CHANGES IN HEALTHCARE POLICIES AND CHANGES TO THIRD-PARTY REIMBURSEMENTS FOR RADIATION ONCOLOGY SERVICES MAY AFFECT DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS
       The United States government has in the past, and may in the future, consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare
costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. State and local governments, as well as a number of foreign governments, are also considering or have adopted such policies. These
policies have included, and may in the future include, rationing of government-funded reimbursement for healthcare services and imposing price controls on medical products and services providers. Future significant changes in the healthcare systems
in the United States or elsewhere, including those that may reduce reimbursement rates for our products or procedures using our products, could have a negative impact on  
       
   34   

Table of Contents  

the demand for our products and services and our business. We are unable to predict what healthcare reform legislation or regulations, if any, will be
enacted in the United States or elsewhere, whether other healthcare legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future, or what effect any legislation or regulation would have on our business.      In addition, sales of some of our products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers for the treatment provided by those products
from third-party healthcare payors, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, private insurance plans, health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. Once Medicare has
made a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by Medicare annually. Private third-party payors often adopt Medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts. As a
result, decisions by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to Medicare s reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts with respect to a treatment would likely extend to
third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment. While we believe reimbursement policies and amounts are not a major factor in our customer purchasing decisions for radiotherapy products, a dramatic change in the availability
and amount of reimbursement for treatments using our products could influence our customers  decisions. Any sharp cuts in overall reimbursement rates for radiotherapy, radiosurgery or brachytherapy could increase uncertainty and reduce demand
for our products and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and stock price.      As a general matter, third-party payors are increasingly challenging
the pricing of medical procedures or limiting or prohibiting reimbursement for specific services or devices, and we cannot be sure that they will reimburse our customers at levels sufficient to enable us to achieve or maintain sales and price levels
for our products. Without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited. There is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, nor can we be sure that procedures using our products will qualify
for reimbursement from third-party payors. Foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems, and there is an emerging private sector. We cannot be sure that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our
products under any foreign reimbursement system.        FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR OPERATING RESULTS, INCLUDING QUARTERLY NET ORDERS, REVENUES, AND GROSS MARGINS,
MAY CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO BE VOLATILE, WHICH COULD CAUSE LOSSES TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS        We have experienced and expect in the future to experience
fluctuations in our operating results, including net orders, revenues and gross margins. Many of our products require significant capital expenditures by our customers. Accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, and
the timing of when individual orders are made and the revenues recognized could have an effect our quarterly results. Timing of order placement from customers and their willingness to commit to purchase products are inherently difficult to predict
or forecast. Once orders are received, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenues and the timing include:       

delay in shipment due, for example, to unanticipated construction delays at customer locations where our products are to be installed, cancellations by customers, natural disasters,
port strikes or manufacturing difficulties;         

delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product; or         

a change in a customer s financial condition or ability to obtain financing.        Our quarterly operating results may also be affected by a number of other factors, including:       

changes in our or our competitors  pricing or discount levels;         

changes or anticipated changes in third-party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products;           
   35   

Table of Contents  

revenues becoming affected by seasonal influences;         

timing of revenue recognition;         

changes in foreign currency exchange rates;         

changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our various products, including the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products;

timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new products or product enhancements by us and by our competitors;         

disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services;         

changes in the general economic conditions in the regions in which we do business;         

the possibility that unexpected levels of cancellations of orders or backlog may affect certain assumptions upon which we base our forecasts and predictions of future performance;

the impact of changing levels of sales to sole purchasers of certain of our X-ray products;         

the unfavorable outcome of any litigation; and         

accounting adjustments, such as those relating to accounting reserves for product recalls, share-based compensation expense as required under SFAS 123(R) and changes in
interpretation of accounting pronouncements.        Because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high
percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. In fiscal year 2006, we saw an approximately one
percentage point year-over-year decline in the gross margin for our Oncology Systems business, which decline principally resulted from (i) higher ramp-up costs and higher proportion of revenue associated with our new products for IGRT;
(ii) share-based compensation expense recorded in fiscal year 2006; and (iii) a continuing mix shift towards a higher proportion of international revenues, which typically have lower gross margins than revenues from North America. If
results fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly decline.      We report on
a quarterly and annual basis our net orders and backlog. It is important to understand that, unlike revenues, net orders and backlog are not governed by the rules of GAAP, and are not within the scope of the audit or reviews conducted by our
independent public accountants; therefore, investors should not interpret our net orders or backlog results in such a manner. Also, our net orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues as the timing
of future revenues depends on completion of customer site preparation and construction, installation scheduling, customer capital budgeting and financing, appropriate regulatory authorizations and other factors. Unexpected levels of cancellation of
individual orders will reduce the quarterly net orders results and backlog and also affect the level of future revenues. Accordingly, we cannot be sure if or when orders will mature into revenues. Our operating results for net orders and backlog in
one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly decline.      We prepare our financial statements to conform with GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities
and Exchange Commission and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. A change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of
transactions completed before a change is announced.         
   36   

Table of Contents  

     WE ARE REQUIRED TO RECOGNIZE EXPENSE FOR SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION RELATED TO STOCK OPTIONS AND EMPLOYEE STOCK
PURCHASES, AND WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT THE EXPENSE THAT WE ARE REQUIRED TO RECOGNIZE ACCURATELY MEASURES THE VALUE OF OUR SHARE-BASED PAYMENT AWARDS, AND THE RECOGNITION OF THIS EXPENSE COULD CAUSE THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE
       On October 1, 2005, we adopted SFAS 123(R), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment
awards made to our employees and directors including stock options and employee stock purchases related to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan and restricted stock based on fair values. As a result, our operating results for fiscal year 2006 contain,
and our operating results for future periods will contain, a charge for share-based compensation related to stock options, employee stock purchases, restricted stock and deferred stock units. Prior to fiscal year 2006, the only share-based
compensation expense we recognized was for restricted stock.      The application of SFAS 123(R) requires the use of an option-pricing model, such as the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model, to determine the fair value of share-based payment awards. Option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. Our
stock options and the option component of the Employee Stock Purchase Plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and changes in the assumptions (such as expected term, stock price volatility and other
variables) can materially affect the fair value estimates. Therefore, although we determine the fair value of stock options and the option component of the Employee Stock Purchase Plan shares in accordance with SFAS 123(R) and SAB 107, the existing
valuation models may not provide an accurate measure of this fair value, and we cannot assure you that the resulting expense that we are required to recognize accurately measures that value.      As a result of the adoption of SFAS 123(R), our earnings for fiscal year 2006 were lower than they would have been had we not been required to adopt SFAS 123(R). This
will continue to be the case for future periods. We cannot predict the effect that expensing share-based payments will have on the trading price of our common stock.        THE NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS EXPOSES US TO ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS, CLEANUP COSTS, OR EXPENSES, WHICH COULD CAUSE US TO PAY SIGNIFICANT AMOUNTS        We are subject to a variety of environmental laws around the world regulating the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from
these materials; these laws may create increased costs for some of our operations. Although we follow procedures that we consider appropriate under existing regulations, these procedures can be costly and we cannot completely eliminate the risk of
contamination or injury from these hazardous materials; in the event of such an incident, we could be held liable for any damages that result. We do not maintain insurance for clean up costs or third-party claims resulting from environmental
contamination which could occur in the future. We do, however, maintain insurance policies that may provide coverage for cleanup costs or third-party claims resulting from some historical occurrences of environmental contamination although this
insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover these costs or claims. We could also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations.      In addition, we may be required to incur significant additional costs to comply with future changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or new laws and regulations. For example, several countries, including
many in the European Union, or EU, are requiring medical equipment manufacturers to bear some or all of the cost of product disposal at the end of the products  useful life, thus creating increased costs for our operations. The EU has also
adopted a directive that may require the adoption of restrictions on the use of some hazardous substances in certain of our products sold in the EU. This  
       
   37   

Table of Contents  

directive could create increased costs for our operations. All of these costs, and any future violations or liability under environmental laws or
regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business.        THE EFFECT OF TERRORISM OR AN OUTBREAK OF EPIDEMIC DISEASES MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT
SALES AND HINDER OUR OPERATIONS        Concerns about terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome and Avian
Influenza, especially in our major markets of North America or Europe, could have a negative effect on travel and our business operations, and result in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance.        AS A STRATEGY TO UTILIZE OUR AVAILABLE CASH TO BETTER ASSIST OUR SALES EFFORTS, WE OFFER EXTENDED PAYMENT TERMS, WHICH MAY POTENTIALLY RESULT IN HIGHER DSO AND
GREATER PAYMENT DEFAULTS        In light of the relatively low interest rates on short-term investments and in order to better utilize our strong cash
position in a manner to better assist sales of our products, we offer longer or extended payment terms for qualified customers in some circumstances. During fiscal year 2006, revenues earned from customer contracts with longer or extended payment
terms amounted to approximately 2% of total Oncology Systems revenues. While we qualify customers to whom we offer longer or extended payment terms, we cannot assure you that the financial positions of these customers will not change adversely over
the longer time period given for payment. In such an event, we may experience an increase in payment defaults in our accounts receivable, which will affect our net earnings. Also, longer or extended payment terms will likely result in an increase in
our days sales outstanding.        OUR OPERATIONS ARE VULNERABLE TO INTERRUPTION OR LOSS DUE TO NATURAL DISASTERS, POWER LOSS, STRIKES AND OTHER EVENTS
BEYOND OUR CONTROL, WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS        We conduct a significant portion of our activities including manufacturing,
administration and data processing at facilities located in the State of California and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes in the past, as well as other natural disasters. We carry limited earthquake insurance.
This coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. A major earthquake or other disaster affecting our facilities could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product
manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our manufacturing facilities; these delays could be lengthy and result in large expenses. In addition, our facilities, particularly those located in the western states
of the United States, may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. Any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our
affected facilities and harm our business. In addition, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any natural disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm
our business.        OUR STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN AND PROVISIONS OF OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION MAY DISCOURAGE A TAKE-OVER AND THEREFORE LIMIT THE
PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK        We have a stockholder rights plan that, under specific circumstances, would significantly dilute the equity interest in
our company of a person (or persons) seeking to acquire control of our company without the prior approval of our Board of Directors. Our Certificate of Incorporation also includes provisions that may make an acquisition of control of our company
without the approval of our Board of Directors more difficult. This stockholder rights plan and provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation may discourage take-over attempts and limit the price of our common stock.         
   38   

Table of Contents  

Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments       None.       
  Item 2.    Properties       As of September 29, 2006, we owned or leased a total of approximately
1.4 million square feet of floor space for our office, manufacturing, research and development and other services worldwide. Our executive offices and our Oncology Systems management and some of our Oncology Systems manufacturing facilities are
located in Palo Alto, California on 30 acres of land under leaseholds which expire in 2056. We own these facilities which contain 248,902 square feet of aggregate floor space. We also own 47,037 square feet of floor space and 2 acres of land in
Crawley, England for our Oncology Systems operations there. Our X-ray Products business segment is located in our facilities in Salt Lake City, Utah, where we own 38 acres of land and 340,812 square feet of floor space. In Las Vegas, Nevada, we own
143,821 square feet of floor space and 8 acres of land for our SIP manufacturing, and Oncology Systems customer services and support operations. One Las Vegas building and land were pledged as collateral against loans with a balance of $6.5 million
at September 29, 2006. The Ginzton Technology Center is located in Mountain View, California under a land and improvements lease that expires in 2009. The balance of our facilities is leased.      We have recently announced plans to construct a 125,000 square foot Oncology Systems manufacturing facility in Beijing, China on 4.74 acres of land under a 50-year land
lease that was signed in July 2006.      We are utilizing substantially all of our currently available productive space to develop, manufacture, service and
market our products. We believe that our facilities and equipment generally are well maintained, in good operating condition and adequate for present operations.       
  Item 3.    Legal Proceedings       The following summarizes the current status of our previously reported
legal proceedings.      After the spin-offs  ,   we retained the liabilities related to the medical systems business. In addition, under the agreement
governing the spin-offs, we agreed to manage and defend liabilities related to legal proceedings and environmental matters arising from corporate or discontinued operations. Each of VI and VSEA must generally indemnify us for one-third of these
liabilities (after adjusting for any insurance proceeds we realize or tax benefits we receive), including specified environmental-related liabilities and to fully assume and indemnify us for liabilities arising from each of their operations before
the spin-offs. For a discussion of environmental-related liabilities, see  MD A Environmental Matters.       From time to time, we are
involved in other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business. While we cannot be certain about the ultimate outcome of any litigation, management does not believe any pending legal proceeding will result in a judgment or
settlement that will have a material adverse effect on our business.       
  Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders       None.         
   39   

Table of Contents  

PART II        
  Item 5.    Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, under the symbol  VAR.  The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for our common stock as reported in the consolidated
transaction reporting system for the NYSE in fiscal years 2006 and 2005.       
    Since the spin-offs and becoming Varian Medical Systems, Inc., we have not paid any cash dividends on our common
stock. We have no current plan to pay cash dividends on our common stock, and will review that decision periodically. Further, our existing unsecured term loan agreements contain provisions that limit our ability to pay cash dividends.   
  As of December 1, 2006, there were approximately 3,442 holders of record of our common stock.       Stock Repurchase Program       The following table provides information with respect to the shares of common stock
repurchased by us for the periods indicated.       
    On November 21, 2005, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to
6,000,000 shares of our common stock through December 31, 2006. As of September 29, 2006, 1,500,000 shares of our common stock remained available for repurchase under this authorization, which will expire on December 31, 2006 on
any remaining shares of common stock not repurchased. On November 20, 2006, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved the repurchase of an additional 4.5 million shares of our common stock over the period prior to
September 28, 2007. We expect repurchases will be made in accordance with Rule 10b-18 and include a plan designed to satisfy the Rule 10b5-1 safe harbor. Shares will be retired upon repurchase.         
   40   

Table of Contents  

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data       We derived the following selected financial data from our audited
consolidated financial statements for the last five fiscal years from September 29, 2001 to September 29, 2006. The following financial data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying
notes and the MD A included elsewhere herein.       Summary of Operations:            

(1)  
  In fiscal year 1995, Varian Associates, Inc. completed the sale of its Electron Devices business segment. The transaction was accounted for as discontinued operations. In fiscal
year 2006, the Company recognized a pre-tax gain from discontinued operations of $2.5 million and a related tax expense of $1.0 million. The net gain of $1.5 million resulted from the release of a reserve for certain contingencies associated with
the Electron Devices business segment. As of September 29, 2006, the Company does not have any asset or liability related to discontinued operations.         

(2)  
  For fiscal year 2006, net earnings included total share-based compensation expense, net of taxes, of $26.9 million, under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
(revised 2004), Share-Based Payment. For fiscal years 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, net earnings included share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock, net of taxes, of $0.7 million, $0.8 million, $0.8 million and $0.7 million,
respectively, which were recorded under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. See Note 11  Employee Stock Plans  of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(3)  
    On November 16, 2001, our Board of Directors declared a two-for-one stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend. The distribution of the shares was made
on January 15, 2002 to stockholders of record as of December 10, 2001. All references to the number of shares and per share amounts of  
          
   41   

Table of Contents  

our common stock have been retroactively restated to reflect the increased number of shares resulting from the two-for-one stock split.

(4)  
  On June 14, 2004, our Board of Directors declared a two-for-one stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend. The distribution of the shares was made on July 30, 2004
to stockholders of record as of June 30, 2004. All references to the number of shares and per share amounts of our common stock have been retroactively restated to reflect the increased number of shares resulting from the two-for-one stock
split.           
   42   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations        Overview       Demand for advanced products for image guided radiotherapy, or IGRT, intensity modulated radiation therapy, or IMRT, stereotactic
radiosurgery, brachytherapy and filmless X-ray imaging, contributed to our growth in net orders, revenues and net earnings in fiscal year 2006. Both Oncology Systems and X-Ray Products business segments contributed positively to the growth in annual
net orders, revenues and operating earnings. Our fiscal year 2006 revenues and net orders were up 16% and 14%, respectively from fiscal year 2005. Gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased 1.4 percentage points in fiscal year 2006 from
fiscal year 2005 primarily due to the decrease in our Oncology Systems gross margins, which included share-based compensation expenses related to our adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based
Payment , or SFAS 123(R). In fiscal year 2006, our net earnings from continuing operations, which included share-based compensation expenses and tax benefits of certain discrete tax items, increased 18% from prior year.       Oncology Systems  .     Our largest business segment is Oncology Systems, which designs, manufacturers, sells and services hardware and
software products for treating cancer with radiation, including linear accelerators, treatment simulation and verification products, brachytherapy equipment, information management and treatment planning software and other sophisticated accessory
products and services. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, we moved the BrachyTherapy business from the  Other  category to the Oncology Systems business segment as our Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Decision Maker,
has begun to evaluate the BrachyTherapy business as part of the Oncology Systems segment due to the natural synergies in the area of radiation therapy oncology.      In our view, the fundamental market drivers for long-term growth in the radiation therapy and stereotactic radiosurgery markets continue to be the rising cancer incidence; underserved medical needs outside of the United States; technology
advances that are leading to improvements in patient care; customer demand for more advanced and effective cancer treatments, such as IMRT, IGRT, stereotactic radiosurgery and brachytherapy; competitive conditions among hospitals and clinics to
offer such advanced treatments; and improvement in cost efficiency in delivering radiation therapy. Our primary goal in the Oncology Systems business segment is to promote the adoption of these more advanced and effective cancer treatments.
     We are seeing customers accept IGRT as the next significant enhancement in curative radiation therapy and demand for our products for IGRT is one of the
main contributors to net orders and revenues growth in our Oncology Systems business segment. As of the end of fiscal year 2006, more than 325 installations of our On-Board Imager product, or OBI, for our high-energy Clinac          accelerators and Trilogy  linear accelerators, two
of our products for enabling IGRT, were either complete or in progress. We believe that IGRT will continue to be one of the main contributors to net orders and revenue growth in our Oncology Systems business segment, with North America ahead of
international regions in the timing of IGRT adoption.      For fiscal year 2006, Oncology Systems revenues and net orders increased over fiscal year 2005
primarily due to continued growth in demand for our new products for IGRT in North America and our products for IMRT in the international regions. We believe Oncology Systems is experiencing its strongest growth in North America as this region
adopts new medical technology for IGRT and stereotactic radiosurgery. International net orders increased modestly in fiscal year 2006 after several years of strong international growth driven by the rapid adoption of IMRT technology and the
underserved medical needs outside of the United States. International revenues remained strong; however, as orders placed in prior periods were delivered. We believe these regional fluctuations in demand are consistent with the historical pattern
where the international regions and North America region have different cycles of demand and technology adoption, with one growing more rapidly while the other is in a relatively slow growth phase. We are, however, seeing a faster adoption rate for
IGRT as compared to IMRT which may lead to more  
       
   43   

Table of Contents  

compressed growth phase cycles. We continue to expect that the Oncology Systems business segment can sustain a global long-term growth of 10% to 15% due to
the fundamental market drivers.      Oncology Systems gross margin in fiscal year 2006 decreased from fiscal year 2005 due principally to higher ramp-up costs
and higher proportion of revenue associated with our new products for IGRT, increased share-based compensation expense and a continuing mix shift towards a higher proportion of international revenues, which typically have lower gross margins than
revenues from North America. We expect that factors such as the mix between relatively higher and lower margin products, mix of geographic regions in which our products are sold, and the level of new products deliveries, could result in fluctuation
in gross margins as a percentage of revenues. While we have initiatives to shorten installation time for our new products, which we believe will reduce the delay in revenue recognition; we expect that our deferred revenue may continue to increase as
a normal function of our revenues increasing. Normalization of the rate of increase in deferred revenue may not result in an improvement in gross margin since the other factors of product mix or geographic mix may have offsetting effects.
     Our success in Oncology Systems largely depends upon our ability to retain leadership in technological innovation, the cost effectiveness of our products,
the efficacy of our treatment technology and external economic influences. Factors affecting the adoption rate of new technologies such as IGRT could include our internal efficiency in design, documentation and testing, deployment and installation
and the more-widely demonstrated efficacy of IGRT by early adopters. They may also include customer training, reimbursement and our ability to educate customers about the cost effectiveness of our new technologies and clinical outcome advantages.
External economic influences could include hospital financial strength in the United States, foreign currency exchange rates and governmental healthcare policies outside the United States.       X-Ray Products .    Our X-ray Products business segment manufactures and sells (i) X-ray tubes for use in a range of applications including
computed tomography, or CT, scanning, radioscopic/fluoroscopic imaging, mammography, special procedures and industrial applications and (ii) flat panel digital image detectors for filmless X-rays (commonly referred to as flat panel detectors or
digital image detectors), which is an alternative to image intensifier tubes for fluoroscopy and X-ray film for radiography. We continue to view the fundamental growth driver for the component business to be the on-going success of key original
equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, that incorporate our X-ray tube products and flat panel detectors into their medical diagnostic and industrial imaging systems. Our flat panel detectors are being incorporated into next generation imaging equipment,
including equipment for IGRT such as OBI, and for dental CT scanning and veterinary X-ray imaging. X-ray Products  net orders, revenues and operating earnings had solid growth in fiscal year 2006 over fiscal year 2005 due primarily to
continuing strong demand for our flat panel detectors.      We are investing to increase manufacturing capacity and quality for the flat panel detector product
line. We have invested $12 million as of the end of fiscal year 2006 and expect to invest an additional $25 million over the next twelve months into dpiX Holding LLC, or dpiX Holding, which will help fund the acquisition and construction of a new
$92 million Gen 4 fabrication facility in Colorado where the next generation of amorphous silicon arrays will be produced. dpiX Holding (through its subsidiary, dpiX LLC) is a key supplier of amorphous silicon arrays for our flat panel detector
products and we are a 40% equity owner in dpiX Holding. At our own facility in Salt Lake City, we have also invested in the expansion of the manufacturing plant where our flat panel detectors are assembled.      Our success in our X-ray Products business depends upon our ability to anticipate changes in our markets, the direction of technological innovation and the demands of our
customers. Factors affecting the success of our X-ray Products business include our ability to develop products with lower cost, better quality and superior technology and performance, and to maintain strong relationships with our OEM customers.
        
   44   

Table of Contents  

    Other .    During the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, we moved the Security and Inspection
Products business, or SIP, from the Oncology Systems segment into the  Other  category, which is now comprised of SIP and the operations of the Ginzton Technology Center, or GTC (see Note 14  Segment Information  of the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements within this Annual Report on Form 10-K). SIP designs, manufactures, sells and services Linatron          X-ray accelerators for security and inspection purposes, such as cargo screening, border protection and nondestructive examination for a variety of
applications. We generally sell our Linatron X-ray accelerators to OEMs who incorporate our accelerators into their inspection systems, which are then sold to custom agencies and other government and military agencies, as well as to commercial
private parties in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries.      We believe growth in this business will be driven by
security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and taxes. As a result, this business is heavily influenced by U.S. and foreign governmental policies on
national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities, which depend upon government budgets and appropriations and which are subject to political changes. The U.S. government is adopting a layered approach to port and
border security including deployment of passive detectors, which we do not manufacture, and X-ray imaging and automatic detection systems for weapons of mass destruction, for which we do manufacture and sell key components and subsystems. While we
are optimistic about the long-term potential of our SIP business and encouraged by the increased interest in our SIP products, use of this technology in security cargo screening and border protection is in its early stages. Orders and revenues for
our SIP products may be unpredictable as governmental agencies may place larger orders with our OEM customers in a short time period and then may not place any orders for a long time period thereafter.      GTC, our research facility for new and potential markets, continues to invest in developing technologies that enhance our current businesses or may lead to new business
areas, including next generation digital X-ray imaging technology, volumetric and functional imaging, improved X-ray sources and technology for security and cargo screening applications. In addition, GTC is developing technologies and products that
are designed to improve disease management by more precise targeting of radiation, as well as by employing targeted energy and molecular agents to enhance the effectiveness and broaden the application of radiation therapy.      This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements
and the notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the information contained under  Risk Factors  in Item 1A. We discuss our results of operations below.       Critical Accounting Estimates       The preparation of our financial
statements and related disclosures in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, or GAAP, requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues
and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. We periodically review our accounting policies and estimates and make adjustments
when facts and circumstances dictate. In addition to the accounting policies that are more fully described in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we consider the critical accounting
policies described below to be affected by critical accounting estimates. Our critical accounting policies that are affected by accounting estimates include share-based compensation expense, revenue recognition, valuation of allowance for doubtful
accounts, valuation of inventories, assessment of recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of warranty obligations, assessment of environmental remediation liabilities, valuation of defined benefit and post-retirement benefit
plans and valuation of taxes on earnings. Such accounting  
       
   45   

Table of Contents  

policies are impacted significantly by judgments, assumptions and estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and actual
results could differ materially from these estimates. For a discussion of how these estimates and other factors may affect our business, also see  Risk Factors  In Item 1A.        Share-based Compensation Expense        Effective October 1,
2005, we adopted SFAS 123(R), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors, including stock options, employee stock purchases under the Employee Stock
Purchase Plan, restricted stock and deferred stock units based on fair values. Our financial statements in fiscal year 2006 reflect the impact of SFAS 123(R) under the modified prospective transition method. In accordance with the modified
prospective transition method, our financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS 123(R). Share-based compensation expense is based on the value of the portion of share-based payment
awards that is ultimately expected to vest. Share-based compensation expense recognized in our Consolidated Statement of Earnings during fiscal year 2006 included compensation expense for share-based payment awards granted prior to, but not yet
vested as of, September 30, 2005 based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , or SFAS 123, and compensation expense for the
share-based payment awards granted subsequent to September 30, 2005 based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). In conjunction with the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we elected to attribute the
value of share-based compensation to expense using the straight-line method, which was previously used for our pro forma information required under SFAS 123.     For fiscal year 2006, total share-based compensation expense, before taxes on earnings, was $40.8 million. During fiscal year 2005, there was no share-based compensation expense related to stock options or employee stock purchases
recognized under the intrinsic value method in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees , or APB 25. For fiscal years 2005 and 2004, share-based compensation expense related to
restricted stock, before taxes on earnings, was $1.1 million and $1.2 million, which was recorded under APB 25. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.      Upon adoption of SFAS 123(R), we elected to value our share-based payment awards granted beginning in fiscal year 2006 using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, or
the Black-Scholes model, which we previously used for the pro forma information required under SFAS 123. For additional information, see Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The determination of fair value of share- based
payment awards on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model is affected by VMS s stock price as well as the input of other subjective assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to the expected term of stock options and
the expected price volatility of VMS stock over the expected term of the awards. Option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. Our stock options
and the option component of the Employee Stock Purchase Plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and changes in the assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimates.      The expected term of stock options represents the weighted average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding. The expected term is based on the observed
and expected time to post-vesting exercise and forfeitures of stock options by our employees. Upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we determined the expected term of stock options based on the demographic grouping of employees and retirement
eligibility. Prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we determined the expected term of stock options based on the demographic grouping of employees. Upon adoption of SFAS 123(R), we used a combination of historical and implied volatility, or
blended volatility, in deriving the expected volatility assumption as allowed under SFAS 123(R) and Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107, or SAB 107. Implied  
       
   46   

Table of Contents  

volatility was derived based on six-month traded options on our common stock. Prior to the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, we had used our historical
stock price volatility in accordance with SFAS 123 for purposes of our pro forma information. The selection of the blended volatility approach was based upon the availability of traded options on our stock and our assessment that blended volatility
is more representative of future stock price trends than just historical volatility alone. The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the term of our stock options. The dividend yield assumption is
based on our history and expectation of dividend payouts.      As share-based compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings for
fiscal year 2006 is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. SFAS 123(R) requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual
forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures were estimated based on our historical experience. In our pro forma information required under SFAS 123 for the periods prior to October 1, 2005, we accounted for forfeitures as they
occurred. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of SFAS 123(R) in future periods, the compensation expense that we record under SFAS 123(R) may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period.
     As of September 29, 2006, there was $33.6 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options granted under the Omnibus Stock
Plan, the 2000 Stock Option Plan, the 2005 Omnibus Stock Plan and the Amended and Restated 2005 Omnibus Stock Plan (together, the  Employee Stock Plans ). This unrecognized compensation expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted
average period of 1.7 years. As of September 29, 2006, there was $2.7 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to restricted stock and deferred stock units granted under the Employee Stock Plans. This unrecognized compensation
expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 8.3 years.        Revenue Recognition        We frequently enter into sales arrangements with customers that contain multiple elements or deliverables such as hardware, software and services. Judgments as to the
allocation of the proceeds received from an arrangement to the multiple elements of the arrangement, the determination of whether any undelivered elements are essential to the functionality of the delivered elements and the appropriate timing of
revenue recognition are critical in respect to these arrangements to ensure compliance with GAAP. In addition, the amount of product revenues recognized is affected by our judgments as to whether objective and reliable evidence of fair value exists
for hardware products and vendor-specific objective evidence of the fair value for software products in arrangements with multiple elements. Changes to the elements in an arrangement and the ability to establish objective and reliable evidence of
fair value or vendor-specific objective evidence of the fair value for those elements could affect the timing of revenue recognition. Revenue recognition also depends on the timing of shipment and is subject to customer acceptance and the readiness
of customers  facilities. If shipments are not made on scheduled timelines or if the products are not accepted by the customer in a timely manner, our reported revenues may differ materially from expectations.        Allowance for Doubtful Accounts        Credit evaluations are
undertaken for all major sale transactions before shipment is authorized. Normal payment terms usually require payment of a small portion of the total amount due upon signing of the purchase order contract, a significant amount upon transfer of risk
of loss and the remaining amount upon completion of the installation. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate aged items in the accounts receivable aging report and provide an allowance in an amount we deem adequate for doubtful accounts. If our
evaluation of our customers  financial conditions does not reflect the future ability to collect outstanding receivables, additional provisions may be needed and our future operating results could be negatively impacted.         
   47   

Table of Contents  

     Inventories        Our inventories include high technology parts and components that may be specialized in nature or subject to rapid technological obsolescence. We have programs to minimize the required inventories on hand and we regularly review inventory
quantities on hand and adjust for excess and obsolete inventory based primarily on historical usage rates and our estimates of product demand and production. Actual demand may differ from our estimates, in which case we may have understated or
overstated the provision required for obsolete and excess inventory, which would have an impact on our operating results.        Goodwill and Intangible
Assets        Goodwill is initially recorded when the purchase price paid for a business acquisition exceeds the estimated fair value of the net
identified tangible and intangible assets acquired. The majority of companies that we have acquired have not had significant identified tangible assets and, as a result, a significant portion of the purchase price has been typically allocated to
intangible assets and goodwill. Our future operating performance will be impacted by the future amortization of these acquired intangible assets and potential impairment charges related to goodwill if indicators of impairment exist. As a result of
business acquisitions, the allocation of the purchase price to goodwill and intangible assets could have a significant impact on our future operating results. The allocation of the purchase price of the acquired companies to goodwill and intangible
assets requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, including estimates of future cash flows expected to be generated by the acquired assets and the appropriate discount rate for these cash flows. Should conditions be different from
management s estimates at the time of the acquisition, material write-downs of intangible assets and/or goodwill may be required, which would adversely affect our operating results. We will continue to make assessments of impairment on an
annual basis in the fourth quarter of our fiscal years or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment arise. In fiscal years 2006 and 2005, we performed such evaluations and found no impairment.        Warranty Obligations        We warrant most of our products for a
specific period of time, usually one year, against material defects. We provide for the estimated future costs of warranty obligations in cost of revenues when the related revenues are recognized. The accrued warranty costs represent our best
estimate at the time of sale of the total costs that we will incur to repair or replace product parts that fail while still under warranty. The amount of accrued estimated warranty costs obligation for established products is primarily based on
historical experience as to product failures adjusted for current information on repair costs. For new products, estimates will include historical experience of similar products, as well as reasonable allowance for start-up expenses. Actual warranty
costs could differ from the estimated amounts. On a quarterly basis, we review the accrued balances of our warranty obligations and update the historical warranty cost trends. If we were required to accrue additional warranty cost in the future, it
would negatively impact our operating results.        Environmental Matters        We are subject to a variety of environmental laws around the world regulating the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials that do or may create increased costs for some of our operations.
Environmental remediation liabilities are recorded when environmental assessments and/or remediation efforts are probable and the costs of these assessments or remediation efforts can be reasonably estimated, in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies,  and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, Statement of Position 96-1,  Environmental Remediation Liabilities.  The accrued environmental costs
represent our best estimate as to the total costs of remediation and the time period over which these costs will be  
       
   48   

Table of Contents  

incurred. On a quarterly basis, we review these accrued balances. If we were required to accrue additional environmental remediation costs in the future, it
would negatively impact our operating results.        Defined Benefit and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans        We sponsor four defined benefit pension plans in Germany, Japan, Switzerland and the United Kingdom covering the employees who meet the applicable eligibility
requirements. We do not have any defined benefit pension plan in the United States. Several statistical and other factors that attempt to anticipate future events are used in calculating the expense and liability related to those plans for which the
benefit is actuarially determined. These factors include assumptions about the discount rate, expected return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases and healthcare cost increases, which we determine within certain guidelines. In
addition, we also use subjective factors, such as withdrawal and mortality rates, to calculate the expense and liability. The actuarial assumptions we use are long-term assumptions and may differ materially from actual experience in the short-term
due to changing market and economic conditions and changing participant demographics. These differences may have a significant impact on the amount of pension expense we recorded.      The expected rates of return on the various defined benefit pension plans  assets are based on the asset allocation of each plan and the long-term projected return of those assets. The discount rate enables us to
state expected future cash flows at a present value on the measurement date. The discount rates used for defined benefit plans in all countries are based on high quality AA-rated corporate bonds with durations corresponding to the expected
durations of the benefit obligations. In countries where the corporate bond market is not sufficiently representative at longer durations, the discount rate also takes into account the yield of long-term government bonds corresponding
to the duration of the benefit obligations and the difference between the yield curve on high quality corporate fixed-income investments and government fixed-income investment. A lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit
obligations.        Taxes on Earnings        We are subject
to taxes on earnings in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. As a global taxpayer, significant judgments and estimates are required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for taxes on earnings. The
calculation of our tax liabilities involves addressing uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We maintain reserves for potential tax contingencies arising in the jurisdictions in which we do business. Such reserves
are based on our assessment of the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome and the potential loss from such contingencies, and may be adjusted from time to time in light of changing facts and circumstances. These reserves are maintained until such
time as the matter is settled or the statutory period for adjustment has passed. Adjustments could be required in the future if we determine that our reserves for tax contingencies are inadequate. The provision for taxes on earnings
includes the effect of changes to these reserves that are considered appropriate.     In addition, the carrying value of our net deferred tax assets
assumes that we will be able to generate sufficient future taxable earnings in certain tax jurisdictions to utilize these deferred tax assets. Should we conclude it is more likely than not that we will be unable to recover our net deferred tax
assets in these tax jurisdictions, a valuation allowance would be recorded and our tax provision would increase in the period in which we make such a determination.      Earnings derived from our international regions are generally taxed at rates lower than U.S. rates. Our effective rate is impacted by existing tax laws in both the United States and in the respective countries in which our international
subsidiaries are located. In addition, a decrease in the percentage of our total earnings from our international regions, or a change in the mix of international regions among particular  
       
   49   

Table of Contents  

tax jurisdictions, could increase our effective tax rate. Also, our current effective tax rate does not assume U.S. taxes on undistributed profits of certain
foreign subsidiaries. These earnings could become subject to incremental foreign withholding or U.S. federal and state taxes should they either be deemed or actually remitted to the United States.       Results of Operations        Fiscal Year       Our fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the Friday nearest September 30. Fiscal year 2006 comprised the 52-week period ended on September 29,
2006. Fiscal year 2005 comprised the 52-week period ended on September 30, 2005 and fiscal year 2004 was the 53-week period ended on October 1, 2004.      On June 14, 2004, our Board of Directors declared a two-for-one stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend. The distribution of the shares was made on July 30, 2004 to stockholders of record as of
June 30, 2004. Unless otherwise stated, all references to the number of shares and per share amounts of our common stock have been retroactively restated to reflect the increased number of shares resulting from the two-for-one split.
      Discussion of Financial Data for Fiscal Years ended 2006, 2005 and 2004         Total Revenues         

(1)  
  We consider international revenues to be revenues outside of North America.        Total revenues increased in fiscal years 2006 and 2005 over the respective prior years primarily due to increases in Oncology Systems revenues in each year, although X-ray Products business segment and the  Other  category also
contributed to the increases.      Increase in total revenues in fiscal years 2006 and 2005 over the prior year periods was primarily due to the growth in
product revenues, and to a lesser extent, increase in service contracts and other revenues. Service contracts and other revenues grew less in fiscal year 2006 from fiscal year 2005 than in fiscal year  
       
   50   

Table of Contents  

2005 from fiscal year 2004. Oncology Systems service contracts revenues continued to comprise the vast bulk of total service contracts and other revenues, as
well as being the primary contributor to the increase in total service contracts and other revenues, in each of fiscal years 2006 and 2005 over the respective prior years.      International revenue growth exceeded the North American revenue growth in fiscal years 2006 and 2005 over the respective prior years. North American revenue growth in fiscal year 2006 over fiscal year 2005 was higher
than the North American revenue growth in fiscal year 2005 over fiscal year 2004. Oncology Systems revenue growth was the primary contributor to the increases in revenues in all geographic regions in fiscal years 2006 and 2005, although X-ray
Products revenue growth also contributed to the revenue increase in all regions.        Oncology Systems Revenues         

(1)  
  Revenues from service contracts represent revenues from fixed-term service contracts and labor cost services. This excludes revenues from spare parts sold by our service department.
       Oncology Systems total revenues in fiscal year 2006 increased 16% from fiscal year 2005, primarily due to increase in product revenues. The
increase in Oncology Systems product revenues in fiscal year 2006 from fiscal year 2005 was primarily due to higher sales volume of accessory products that enable IMRT and IGRT (including our OBI) and our Trilogy linear accelerators, and to a lesser
extent, higher sales volume of our software and brachytherapy products. The increase in service contracts revenues in fiscal year 2006 from fiscal year 2005 was primarily driven by the increase in sophistication of our products and the success of
our software products which generate annual maintenance contracts and renewals. However, service contracts revenues in fiscal year 2006 grew at a lower rate and in absolute amount than fiscal year 2005. The lower growth rate in fiscal year 2006 over
fiscal year 2005 was primarily due to the unusually high growth of the radiotherapy equipment service business of Mitsubishi Electric Co., or MELCO, in fiscal year 2005, from which we derived the first full year of revenue since the acquisition of
MELCO s radiotherapy equipment service business in February 2004.      The majority of the 11% growth in total revenues for Oncology Systems business
segment in fiscal year 2005 over fiscal year 2004 came from increased product revenues. The increase from Oncology Systems product revenues from fiscal year 2004 to fiscal year 2005 was primarily driven by higher sales volumes of our new accessory
products that enable IMRT and IGRT, including our OBI and PortalVision products, which was stronger in the second half of fiscal year 2005. In addition, higher sales volume of our linear accelerators, including the Trilogy accelerators, contributed
to a significant portion of Oncology Systems  product revenues growth. Service contracts revenues grew faster than product revenues for fiscal year 2005 over fiscal year 2004. Service contracts revenues increased in fiscal year 2005 over fiscal
year 2004 primarily due to the increase in sophistication of our products and the success of our software products which generate annual maintenance contracts and renewals. The acquisition of MELCO s Service Business also contributed to the
growth in service contracts revenues in fiscal year 2005.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

All of our geographic regions contributed to the increase in Oncology Systems revenues for fiscal years 2006 and
2005 over the respective prior years. Oncology Systems continued to benefit from strong cyclical demand in the international regions that started a few years ago driven by the adoption of IMRT and the underserved medical needs outside of the United
States after several years of very slow international revenue growth. In fiscal year 2006, our North American region returned to the normal long-term growth pattern of 10% to 15% due to growth in demand for our new products for IGRT. In fiscal year
2005, Oncology Systems revenues from North American region grew modestly at 4% after several years of strong revenue growth. We believe that the rapid adoption rate of IMRT was the primarily driver for the strong revenue growth in the earlier
periods. By fiscal year 2005, as IMRT had become more of an established treatment technology and prior to growth in demand for IGRT products, we experienced the inevitable lower growth rate in fiscal year 2005 in the market for radiotherapy capital
equipment, particularly equipment for IMRT. The offsetting cycle of higher and lower growth between the international and North American regions is a historical pattern that we continue to experience and is consistent with the net orders growth
patterns discussed more fully in the   Net Orders  .      North American revenues increased 10% in fiscal year 2006 compared to fiscal year 2005,
primarily due to the higher sales volume of accessory products that enable IGRT (including our OBI) and our Trilogy linear accelerators. Revenues in North America grew a modest 4% in fiscal year 2005 over fiscal year 2004 due to the slowdown in the
market for products that enable IMRT.      International Oncology Systems revenues grew 23% in both fiscal years 2006 and 2005 over their respective prior
years, primarily due to the increases in accessory products (including products that enable IGRT and IMRT and software products), as well as service contracts revenues, driven by the underserved medical needs in Europe and Asia. The growth in
international revenues in fiscal year 2005 over fiscal year 2004 was also due in part to (i) increased revenues from the radiotherapy equipment service business of MELCO, (ii) the acquisition of Sigma Micro Informatique Conseil, and
(iii) the relative weakness of the U.S. dollar for most of fiscal year 2005 that effectively made our pricing more competitive with our foreign competitors.         
   52   

Table of Contents  

     X-ray Products Revenues         
    X-ray Products revenues increased by 17% and 18% in fiscal years 2006 and 2005, over the respective prior years.
All of our geographic regions contributed to the increase in X-ray Products revenues for fiscal years 2006 and 2005.      The growth in X-ray Products revenues
in fiscal year 2006 over the prior year was primarily driven by higher sales volume of our flat panel detectors to our OEM customers in Asia and North America, and to a lesser extent, increased sales volumes of our high power, anode grounded CT
scanning tubes primarily to one OEM customer and X-ray tubes used in security screening.      The growth in X-ray Products revenues in fiscal year 2005 over
fiscal year 2004 was primarily driven by higher sales volume of our flat panel detectors in North America, as well as increased sales volume of our high power, anode grounded CT scanning tubes primarily to one OEM customer.        Other Revenues         
    For our  Other  category, which is now comprised of SIP and GTC, revenues increased 6% for fiscal year
2006 over fiscal year 2005, primarily due to higher sales volume of our Linatron products to our OEM customers for cargo screening and border protection. The 1% increase of revenues in fiscal year 2005 over fiscal year 2004 was attributable to
higher service contracts revenues due to a higher installed base of our Linatron products, partially offset by a slight decrease in product sales volume of SIP products for cargo screening than in fiscal year 2004. Orders and revenues for our SIP
products may be unpredictable as government agencies may place larger orders with our OEM customers in a short time period and then may not place any orders for a long time period thereafter.         
   53   

Table of Contents  

     Gross Margin         
    Total gross margin decreased by 1.4 percentage points in fiscal year 2006 compared to fiscal year 2005 due
primarily to a decrease in gross margin in the Oncology Systems business segment and the inclusion of share-based compensation expense in connection with our adoption of SFAS 123(R), partially offset by a slight increase in X-ray Products gross
margin. In fiscal year 2005, both of our business segments and the  Other  category contributed to the one percentage point increase in total gross margin from fiscal year 2004, although the increase in total gross margin was primarily due
to an increase in the Oncology Systems gross margin. Total gross margin of 42.9% in fiscal year 2005 was the highest achieved annual gross margin since we became a standalone medical systems company in 1999. Total product gross margin was 41.2% in
fiscal year 2006, compared to 43.0% and 42.9% in fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively. Total service contracts and other gross margin was 43.4% in fiscal year 2006, compared to 42.3% and 36.6% in fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively.
     Oncology Systems gross margin decreased in fiscal year 2006 compared to the prior year, primarily due to a decrease in product gross margin to 42.7% in
fiscal year 2006 from 44.7% in fiscal year 2005, partially offset by increase in service contracts gross margin to 44.1% in fiscal year 2006 from 42.3% in fiscal year 2005. The decrease in product gross margin was primarily due to: (i) higher
ramp-up costs and higher proportion of revenue associated with our new products for IGRT; (ii) share-based compensation expense of $5.1 million recorded in fiscal year 2006 in the Oncology Systems segment in connection with our adoption of SFAS
123(R); and (iii). a continuing mix shift towards a higher proportion of international revenues which typically have lower gross margins than revenues from North America. The improvement in service contracts gross margin was due primarily to higher
volumes and growth in higher margin software maintenance contracts in Oncology Systems.      Oncology Systems gross margin increased by 1.1 percentage points in
fiscal year 2005 from fiscal year 2004. Oncology Systems product gross margin increased slightly to 44.7% in fiscal year 2005 from 44.5% in fiscal year 2004 due primarily to higher average selling price, lower product costs, lower warranty costs as
a result of improved product engineering and design and partially offset by continuing shift to lower margin international revenues. Service contracts gross margin in Oncology Systems showed strong performance and increased significantly to 42.3% in
fiscal year 2005 compared to 36.6% in fiscal year 2004 due primarily to higher volumes and growth in higher margin software maintenance contracts in Oncology Systems.      X-ray Products gross margin in fiscal year 2006 increased slightly by 0.3 percentage points from fiscal year 2005. The gain in gross margin resulting from increased sales of our higher gross margin flat panel
detectors was significantly offset by product mix shift toward lower gross margin X-ray tube products and increased share-based compensation expense of $1.4 million in the X-ray Products segment. X-ray Products gross margin in fiscal year 2005 also
increased slightly by 0.3 percentage points from fiscal year 2004 due to significant gross margin gains from the increasing sales volume of our flat panel detectors,  
       
   54   

Table of Contents  

partially offset by higher raw material costs and manufacturing costs associated with X-ray tube. We      believe that the gross margin in X-ray Products segment will be positively impacted if a higher proportion of X-ray Products revenues are derived from flat panel
detectors.        Research and Development         
    We have maintained our research and development expenses at 6% of total revenues, in line with our revenue growth.
The $18 million increase in research and development expenses for fiscal year 2006 was driven by increased spending of $11 million in Oncology Systems, $4 million in the  Other  category and $3 million in X-ray Products. Our research
and development efforts in Oncology Systems in fiscal year 2006 were focused on the development of next generation products and accessories, specifically our next generation linear accelerator, other technology such as IGRT, our Monte Carlo and dose
calculation algorithms for our treatment planning software products and our new electronic health records within our information management software. We anticipate that we will continue to devote significant resources to research and development in
the future.      The $11 million increase in research and development expenses in Oncology Systems for fiscal year 2006 compared to fiscal year 2005 was
attributable primarily to: (a) increased employee headcount, materials costs and consulting expenses totaling $10.5 million for the development of our next generation linear accelerator products and (b) increased share-based compensation
expense of $2.0 million recorded in fiscal year 2006. These increases were partially offset by favorable foreign currency impact of $0.9 million in fiscal year 2006 resulting from the relatively strong U.S. dollar for our foreign operations as the
research and development expenses are translated into U.S. dollars. The $3 million increase in X-ray Products was due to: (a) increased expenses totaling $2.7 million for new research and development projects related to both X-ray tubes and
flat panel detectors and (b) share-based compensation expense of $0.7 million recorded in fiscal year 2006. The $4 million increase in the  Other  category was primarily due to: (a) increased expenses totaling $2.0 million for
research and development of the Linatron product line and (b) share-based compensation expense of $1.6 million recorded in fiscal year 2006.      The $10
million increase in research and development expenses for fiscal year 2005 over fiscal year 2004 was primarily driven by increased spending of $9.1 million in Oncology Systems. The increase in absolute dollars in research and development expenses in
Oncology Systems for fiscal year 2005 compared to fiscal year 2004 was attributable primarily to: a) increased employee headcount, materials costs and consulting expenses of $6.1 million in total; b) increased expenses of $1.0 million related to the
new projects from the acquisition of Sigma Micro; and c) increased expenses of $1.0 million resulting from the relatively weak U.S. dollar in most of fiscal year 2005 for our foreign operations as the research and development expenses are translated
into U.S. dollars.        Selling, General and Administrative         
    Our selling, general and administrative expenses have remained relatively in line with our revenue growth, despite
the share-based compensation expense we recorded in fiscal year 2006 in connection with our adoption of SFAS 123(R) in fiscal year 2006. The $48 million increase in selling, general and  
       
   55   

Table of Contents  

administrative expenses for fiscal year 2006 compared to fiscal year 2005 was primarily attributable to: (a) increased share-based compensation expense
of $28.7 million recorded for fiscal year 2006,      (b) increased employee-related expenses of $14.9 million resulting from an increase in employee
headcount and other associated costs in Oncology Systems and corporate headquarters to support our growing business activities, (c) increased professional fees of $2.7 million largely driven by information technology projects and
(d) decreased income on equity investment in dpiX Holding of $2.0 million (see Note 4  Related Party Transactions  in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and (e) increased fees of $1.5 million related to certain
non-employee related commission arrangements. These increases were partially offset by (i) a gain on balance sheet hedging of $3.1 million, (ii) a decrease in accounting fees of approximately $1.7 million primarily due to the unusually
high expenses in fiscal year 2005 related to compliance with the required documentation and testing of internal control over financial reporting as mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and (iii) favorable foreign currency translation
impact of $1.7 million resulting from the relatively strong U.S. dollar for our foreign operations as the selling, general and administrative expenses are translated into U.S. dollars.      The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2005 compared to fiscal year 2004 was attributable primarily to: a) increased net employee-related expenses of $7.0 million, which included
an increase of $13.8 million resulting from an increase in employee headcount in Oncology Systems, corporate headquarters and X-ray Products to support our growing business activities, partially offset by a $6.8 million decrease in employee and
management incentive plans; b) increased incremental expenses of $4.5 million related to compliance with the required documentation and testing of internal control over financial reporting as mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; c) increased
operating expenses of $2.9 million related to acquisitions; d) increased expenses of $2.6 million related to our information systems and e) increased expenses of $1.8 million resulting from the relatively weak U.S. dollar in most of fiscal year 2005
for our foreign operations as the selling, general and administrative expenses are translated into U.S. dollars. These increases were partially offset by (i) increased income on equity investment in dpiX Holding of $3.4 million and
(ii) decreased fees of $2.6 million related to certain commission arrangements.        Interest Income, Net         
    The increase in interest income, net in fiscal year 2006 compared to fiscal year 2005 was attributable to an
increase in interest rates in fiscal year 2006.      The increase in interest income, net in fiscal year 2005 compared to fiscal year 2004 was attributable to
an increase in interest rates in fiscal year 2005 over fiscal year 2004, partly offset by decreases in the levels of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities between fiscal years 2004 and 2005.        Taxes on Earnings         
    The decrease in the effective tax rates in fiscal year 2006 from fiscal year 2005 was primarily due to tax benefits
related to (i) the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation of 2004 (the  Jobs Creation Act ), which resulted in a decrease in our effective tax rate of approximately four percentage points, (ii) a
deferred tax asset adjustment for certain prior years  state and federal temporary differences, which resulted a decrease in our effective tax rate of approximately two  
       
   56   

Table of Contents  

percentage points, (iii) the reduction of reserves for potential tax contingencies as a result of the lapse of the statute of limitations in certain
domestic jurisdictions, which resulted in a one percentage point decrease in our effective tax rate and a shift in the geographic mix of earnings towards countries with lower tax rates, which resulted in a decrease in our effective tax rate of
approximately three percentage points in fiscal year 2006 over fiscal year 2005.      The Jobs Creation Act introduced a special one-time dividends received
deduction on the repatriation of foreign earnings. During fiscal year 2006, we repatriated approximately $128 million in foreign earnings pursuant to the Jobs Creation Act. We had previously recorded a deferred tax liability of approximately $17
million for taxes for the eventual repatriation of a portion of our foreign earnings. Under the Jobs Creation Act, our tax liability for repatriation of the approximately $128 million in foreign earnings is expected to be $5 million. Therefore, we
recorded a net tax benefit of approximately $12 million. We also recorded a net tax benefit of $7.2 million in fiscal year 2006 related to adjustments of certain prior years  state and federal temporary differences. In addition, a tax benefit
of approximately $3 million recorded in fiscal year 2006 was related to the reduction of reserves for potential tax contingencies as a result of the lapse of the statute of limitations in certain domestic jurisdictions.      The decrease in effective tax rate in fiscal year 2005 from fiscal year 2004 was primarily due to a shift of earnings towards countries with lower statutory rates.
     In general, our effective income tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate largely as a result of foreign income taxed at rates lower than the
U.S. federal rate, state income taxes and, the extraterritorial income exclusion. Our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than
anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof.        Net Earnings Per Diluted Share         
    The increase in earnings per diluted share in fiscal year 2006 from fiscal year 2005 can be attributed to the
increase in total revenues, the reduction in effective tax rate and the reduction in outstanding shares of common stock due to stock repurchases.   Net earnings per diluted share increased in fiscal year 2006 from fiscal year 2005 by $0.31.
These results include incremental share-based compensation expenses of $0.20 per diluted share related to our adoption of SFAS 123(R). The incremental share-based compensation expenses were partially offset by a one-time tax benefit of $0.09 per
diluted share related to the repatriation of foreign earnings under the Jobs Creation Act, a net tax benefit of $0.05 per diluted share related adjustments of certain prior years  state and federal temporary differences and a $0.01 per diluted
share related to the release of a reserve for certain contingencies associated with the sale of our Electron Device Business in 1995, which was classified as earnings from discontinued operations, net of taxes, in the Consolidation Statement of
Earnings.        The increase in earnings per diluted share in fiscal year 2005 from fiscal year 2004 can be attributed to the increase in total revenues,
improvements in gross margins, the reduction in effective tax rate and the reduction in outstanding shares of common stock due to stock repurchases.           
   57   

Table of Contents  

     Net Orders         
    The increase in our total net orders for fiscal year 2006 over fiscal year 2005 was primarily due to the 13%
increase in Oncology Systems net orders. In fiscal year 2006, North American Oncology Systems net orders grew 19% from fiscal year 2005 compared to 3% and 11% in fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively, from the respective prior fiscal years. The
growth in North American net orders reflected increased demand for our new accessory products that enable IGRT (including our OBI) and for the Trilogy linear accelerators. We believe Oncology Systems is experiencing its strongest growth in North
America as this region adopts IGRT technology. After several years of strong growth driven by the rapid adoption of IMRT technology, international net orders increased modestly by 6% in fiscal year 2006, compared to 31%, 36% and 30% in fiscal years
2005, 2004 and 2003 over the respective year earlier periods. Consistent with what we saw in North America, we expect rates of growth to lower following a rapid IMRT adoption cycle and as IMRT becomes an established treatment methodology in the
international regions. We are however also beginning to see, to a limited extent, demand for our new accessory products that enable IGRT (including our OBI) as these international regions enter the initial stages of adoption of IGRT. We expect that
IGRT will continue to be one of the main contributors to net orders and revenues growth in our Oncology Systems business segment, with North America ahead of international regions in the timing of adoption.      We continue to believe that Oncology Systems business segment can sustain global long-term growth of 10% to 15% due to fundamental market factors for growth in the
radiation therapy market that we believe have remained unchanged. In any given period, however, orders growth in either North America or international regions, or both, could be outside of this range. The actual timing of sales and revenue
recognition will vary significantly based on the delivery requirements of individual orders and the readiness of individual customer sites for installation of our products and are usually shorter for some types of orders, such as upgrades
( i.e.  the addition of new features or accessories to existing equipment). Thus, orders in any quarter or period are not necessarily directly correlated to the level of sales or revenues in any particular future quarter or
period. Moreover, as the overall mix of net orders includes a greater proportion of software products and newly introduced Oncology Systems products, which typically have longer time from order to completion of installation, the average time
period within which orders convert into sales could lengthen and our deferred revenues may increase and margins may fall. The net orders growth in Oncology Systems also benefited from the growing demand of our software products for treatment
planning and information management and our brachytherapy products.      X-ray Products have relatively short turn around from net orders to shipments. X-ray
Products net orders increased by 19% for fiscal year 2006 compared to fiscal year 2005 due to continuing robust demand for our flat panel detectors. After years of investment in flat panel technology, the flat panel  
       
   58   

Table of Contents  

detector product line has become a significant contributor to our X-ray Products business segment. We believe the flat panel detector product line will
continue to experience high growth as flat panel detectors which enable filmless X-ray imaging replace traditional X-ray products in many medical applications.      Net orders in the  Other  category, comprised of SIP and GTC, increased by 33% in fiscal year 2006 compared to fiscal year 2005 primarily due to a substantial increase in orders from OEM customers for our Linatron X-ray
accelerators for cargo screening and border protection. While we are optimistic about the long-term potential of our SIP business and encouraged by the increased interest in our products, use of this technology in security cargo screening and border
protection is in its early stages and governmental agencies have provided limited public information about plans for adopting such technologies. Orders for our SIP products may be unpredictable as governmental agencies may place larger orders with
our OEM customers in a short time period and then may not place any orders for a long time period thereafter. The actual timing of sales and revenue recognition will vary significantly as it is difficult to predict our customer delivery and
acceptance schedules. Thus, orders in any quarter or period are not necessarily directly correlated to the level of sales or revenues in any particular future quarter or period.        Backlog        At September 29, 2006, we had a backlog of $1.4 billion, an increase of 19% compared to
September 30, 2005. Our Oncology Systems backlog at September 29, 2006 increased by 18% from September 30, 2005, including a 27% increase for North America and a 6% increase for international regions.       Liquidity and Capital Resources       Liquidity is the measurement of our
ability to meet potential cash requirements, including ongoing commitments to repay borrowings, acquire businesses and fund continuing operations. Our sources of cash include operations, stock option exercises and employee stock purchases,
borrowings and interest income. Our cash usage is actively managed on a daily basis to ensure the maintenance of sufficient funds to meet our needs.        Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities        The following table summarizes our cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities:           
    The net decrease in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities during fiscal year 2006 was primarily a
result of using cash and cash proceeds from maturities of marketable securities for the repurchase of common stock of $271 million, capital expenditures of $41 million, investment in dpiX Holding of $12 million for the construction of a
manufacturing facility in Colorado, employee tax payments of $8 million against 162,288 withheld shares in connection with restricted performance share awards and restricted common stock vested, contribution of $5 million to the trust assets of our
deferred compensation plan, which invests in corporate-owned life insurance contracts. All of these decreases were significantly offset by $202 million cash generated from operating activities, $74 million of cash provided by the issuance of common
stock related to stock option exercises and employee stock purchases and $52 million of cash provided by the excess tax benefits from share-based compensation.         
   59   

Table of Contents  

   At September 29, 2006, we had approximately $191 million or 52% of total cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities in the United States. Approximately $175 million or 48% of total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was held abroad and could be subject to additional taxation if it were repatriated to the United States. In fiscal year
2006, we repatriated $128 million in foreign earnings pursuant to the Jobs Creation Act. Our tax liability for repatriation of the $128 million in foreign earnings was $5 million.        Cash Flows         
    Our primary cash inflows and outflows for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:       
    The $50 million decrease in net cash from operating activities during
fiscal year 2006 from 2005 was driven by a net change of $38 million in operating assets and liabilities (working capital items) and a net decrease in non-cash items of $51 million, partially offset by an increase in net earnings of $39 million.
     The major contributors to the net change in working capital items in fiscal year 2006 were accounts receivable, inventories, accrued
expenses, deferred revenues and advance payments from customers.       

Accounts receivables increased due to higher revenues in fiscal year 2006 compared to the prior year and the continuing shift to a higher proportion of international deliveries,
which typically have a longer collection cycle than North America and a longer period from shipment to revenue recognition.         

Inventories increased due to the continuing shift to a higher proportion of international deliveries, which typically have a longer period from shipment to cost recognition, as well
as due to anticipated customer demands for both Oncology Systems and X-ray Products business segments.         

Accrued expenses increased primarily due to increase in income taxes payable. The increase in income taxes payable was the result of lower estimated tax payments made during fiscal
year 2006.         

Deferred revenues increased due to increasing revenue recognition deferrals related to timing of completion of installation of our Oncology Systems products and our growing sales of
new Oncology Systems products, as well as the higher proportion of our Oncology Systems business represented by international revenues with the accompanying longer period from shipment to revenue recognition.         

Advance payments from customers increased primarily due to increased orders.           
   60   

Table of Contents  

   The $18 million increase in cash flow from operating activities from fiscal years 2004 to 2005 was a
result of an increase in net earnings of $39 million, partially offset by a net decrease of $13 million in non-cash items, net, due primarily to the decrease in tax benefits from employee stock option exercises and a net change of approximately $8
million in operating assets and liabilities (working capital items). The major contributors to the change in working capital items in fiscal year 2005 were accounts receivable, deferred revenues and inventories. Accounts receivable and inventories
increased primarily due to the continuing shift to a higher proportion of international deliveries, which typically have a longer collection cycle than North America and a longer period from shipment to cost recognition. The increase in inventories
was also due to anticipated customer demands for both Oncology Systems and X-ray Products. The increase in deferred revenues resulted from increasing revenue recognition deferrals related to timing of completion of installation of our software
products and our growing sales of new products, as well as the higher international proportion of our Oncology Systems business with the accompanying longer period from shipment to revenue recognition.      We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our
operating results, timing of product shipments, accounts receivable collections, inventory management, and the timing of tax and other payments. For additional discussion, see  Risk Factors  in Item 1A.       

Financing activities used net cash of $156 million in fiscal year 2006 compared to $195 million and $142 million in fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively. In fiscal
year 2006, we used $271 million for the repurchase of common stock, $8 million (the value of withheld shares) for employees  taxes due when restricted performance share awards and restricted common stock vested and $3 million for repayment of
bank borrowings. These uses were partially offset by cash proceeds of $74 million from employee stock option exercises and employee stock purchases and $52 million in excess tax benefits from share-based compensation. In fiscal year 2005, we used
$227 million for repurchases of common stock and $5 million for repayment of bank borrowings and received proceeds of $38 million from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases. In fiscal year 2004, we used $202 million for repurchases of
common stock and received $46 million in proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases.        We expect our capital
expenditures, which typically represent construction and/or purchases of facilities, manufacturing equipment, office equipment and furniture and fixtures, will be approximately 4% of revenues in fiscal year 2007.      Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which result from the normal ongoing operations of our business and some of which arise from uncertainties and
conditions in the United States and global economies. Although our cash requirements will fluctuate as a result of the shifting influences of these factors, we believe that existing cash and cash equivalents and cash to be generated from operations
will be sufficient to satisfy anticipated commitments for capital expenditures and other cash requirements through fiscal year 2007. We currently anticipate that we will continue to utilize our strong liquidity and cash flows from operations to
repurchase our common stock, make strategic acquisitions, invest in the growth of our business and invest in systems and processes.         
   61   

Table of Contents  

     Days Sales Outstanding        Trade accounts receivable days sales outstanding, or DSO, were 94 days at September 29, 2006 compared to 82 days at September 30, 2005. Our accounts receivable and DSO are primarily impacted by timing of product shipments,
collections performance and payment terms. The increase in DSO for fiscal year 2006 over fiscal year 2005 was related to our growing sales of new products and the continuing shift to a higher proportion of international sales, which typically have a
longer collection cycle than North America.        Stock Repurchase Program        During fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, we paid $271 million, $227 million and $202 million, respectively, to repurchase 5,395,100 shares, 5,960,000 shares and 5,576,000 shares, respectively, of our common stock
under various Board of Directors authorizations. All shares that have been repurchased have been retired. As of September 29, 2006, 1,500,000 shares of our common stock remained available for repurchase under an authorization that expires on
December 31, 2006. On November 20, 2006, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved the repurchase of an additional 4.5 million shares of our common stock over the period prior to September 28, 2007.        Contractual Obligations        The following summarizes our
contractual obligations as of September 29, 2006 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods:       

(1)  
  At September 29, 2006, we had long term debt of $57.3 million. Long-term debt, including current maturities, decreased $2.7 million from September 30, 2005 due to
principal repayments of $2.7 million. The fixed interest rates on the outstanding debt on this date ranged from 6.70% to 7.58% with a weighted average interest rate of 6.88%. As of September 29, 2006, land and buildings with a carrying amount
of $9.9 million were pledged as collateral against certain loans we assumed related to purchases of land and buildings in Las Vegas. The remaining unsecured loan agreements contain a covenant that requires us to pay prepayment penalties if we elect
to pay off this debt before the maturity dates and the market interest rate is lower than the fixed interest rates of the debt at the time of repayment. It also contains covenants that limit future borrowings and cash dividend payments and require
us to maintain specified levels of working capital and operating results. During fiscal years 2004, 2005 and 2006, the Company was in compliance with all restrictive covenants of the unsecured term loan agreements.         

(2)  
  We lease office space and have entered into other lease commitments in North America as well as various locations in Europe, Asia, Australia and Latin America. Operating leases
include future minimum lease payments under all our noncancelable operating leases as of September 29, 2006.         

(3)  
    Following a decision by Mitsubishi Electric Co., or MELCO, to exit the radiotherapy equipment and service business and its desire to do so in a nondisruptive manner
with an established radiotherapy equipment service provider, we entered into two separate transactions with MELCO contemporaneously whereby (i) we purchased MELCO s radiotherapy equipment service business  
          
   62   

Table of Contents  

to service MELCO s existing customers and (ii) we formed a three-year joint venture, or JVA, in Japan with MELCO that was effective as of
February 3, 2004. The joint venture was accomplished through MELCO s purchase on February 3, 2004, of a 35% ownership interest in our Japanese subsidiary, VMS KK, for 1.4 billion Japanese Yen, or US$13.5 million. At the end of the JVA
period, MELCO is required to unconditionally sell and we are required to unconditionally repurchase MELCO s 35% ownership interest in VMS KK at the original price (1.4 billion Japanese Yen). The Company has accounted for MELCO s 35%
ownership interest as a mandatorily redeemable financial instrument, which is included in  Accrued expenses  and  Other long-term liabilities  in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, as of September 29, 2006 and
September 30, 2005, respectively. The mandatorily redeemable financial instrument amounted to US$12.1 million and US$12.5 million as of September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively.         In addition, MELCO is also eligible for a contingent  earn out  payment at the end of the JVA period, which represents 100% of the net profits
or losses of the radiotherapy equipment service business during the three-year JVA period. For the period from February 2, 2004 to September 29, 2006, net profits for the radiotherapy equipment service business totaled approximately $3.6
million, which would be payable to MELCO at the end of the JVA period assuming the business did not generate any future profits and losses.      For further discussion regarding these two transactions with MELCO, see Note 2  Balance Sheet Components  and Note 8  Commitments and Contingencies  of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       

(4)  
  As of September 29, 2006, through an investment in a consortium, dpiX Holding LLC, or dpiX Holding, we held an indirect ownership interest of 38.4% in dpiX LLC, or dpiX. In
March 2006, we and the other member of dpix Holding agreed in principle to invest an aggregate of $92 million in dpiX Holding for dpiX to acquire and construct a manufacturing facility in Colorado to increase its production capacity. The
members  contributions for this facility are based on their percentage of ownership interest in dpiX Holding. As of September 29, 2006, we had contributed approximately $12 million to dpiX Holding related to this manufacturing facility and
expect to invest an additional $25 million over the next 12 months. For further discussion regarding these transactions, see Note 4  Related Party Transactions  of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
       Total debt as a percentage of total capital decreased to 8.0% at September 29, 2006 compared to 9.9% at September 30, 2005 largely
due to the increases in retained earnings and capital in excess of par value during fiscal year 2006. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities decreased to 1.80 to 1 at September 29, 2006 from 1.87 to 1 at September 30, 2005.
       Contingencies        We are subject to a variety of
environmental laws around the world regulating the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials that do or may create increased costs for some of our operations. Although we follow procedures that we consider appropriate under
existing regulations, these procedures can be costly and we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials, and, in the event of such an incident, we could be held liable for any damages that result. In
addition, we could be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. These costs, and any future violations or liability under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our
business.      In addition, we may be required to incur significant additional costs to comply with future changes in existing environmental laws and
regulations or new laws and regulations. For example, several countries, including many in the European Union, or EU, are requiring medical equipment manufacturers to bear some or all of the cost of product disposal at the end of the products 
useful life, thus creating increased costs for our operations. The EU has also adopted a directive that may require the adoption of  
       
   63   

Table of Contents  

restrictions on the use of some hazardous substances in certain of our products sold in the EU. This directive could create increased costs for our
operations.      From the time we began operating, we handled and disposed of hazardous materials and wastes following procedures that were considered
appropriate under regulations, if any, existing at the time. We also hired companies to dispose of wastes generated by our operations. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, or third parties have named us as a potentially responsible
party, or PRP, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or CERCLA, at eight sites where we, as Varian Associates, Inc., are alleged to have shipped such wastes for recycling or disposal, and
as a PRP we may have an obligation to reimburse the EPA or other third parties for cleanup costs at these sites. In addition, we are overseeing environmental cleanup projects and, as applicable, reimbursing third parties for cleanup activities under
the direction of, or in consultation with, federal, state and/or local agencies at certain current VMS or former Varian Associates, Inc. facilities (including facilities disposed of in connection with our sale of our Electron Devices business during
1995 and the sale of our thin film systems business during 1997). Under the terms of the agreement governing the distribution of the shares, or the spin-offs, of Varian, Inc., or VI, and Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc., or VSEA, by
us in 1999, VI and VSEA are each obligated to indemnify us for one-third of these environmental cleanup costs (after adjusting for any insurance proceeds realized or tax benefits recognized by us).      As described below, we have accrued a total of $15.5 million at September 29, 2006 to cover our liabilities for these cleanup projects.       

Various uncertainties make it difficult to estimate the likelihood or cost of certain third-party claims, project management costs and legal costs at all of the sites and
facilities. In addition, for these eight sites and one of these facilities, various uncertainties make it difficult to assess the likelihood and scope of further cleanup activities or to estimate the future costs of such activities. As of
September 29, 2006, we nonetheless estimated that our future exposure (net of VI s and VSEA s indemnification obligations) for these cleanup costs, third-party claims, project management costs and legal costs ranged in the aggregate
from $3.6 million to $7.2 million. The time frames over which these cleanup project costs are estimated vary, ranging from one year to 14 years as of September 29, 2006. We believe that no amount in the foregoing range of estimated
future costs is more probable of being incurred than any other amount in such range and therefore accrued $3.6 million as of September 29, 2006. The amount accrued has not been discounted to present value due to the uncertainties that make
it difficult to develop a best estimate of future costs.         

As to all other facilities, we have gained sufficient knowledge to better estimate the scope and costs of future cleanup activities based upon formal agreements with other parties
defining our future liabilities or formal cleanup plans that have either been approved by or completed in accordance with the requirements of the state or federal environmental agency with jurisdiction over the facility. As of September 29,
2006, we estimated that the our future exposure (net of VI s and VSEA s indemnification obligations) for the cleanup costs at these facilities, and reimbursements of third-party s claims for these facilities, ranged in the aggregate
from $9.8 million to $36.4 million. The time frames over which these cleanup project costs are estimated vary with each facility, ranging from 2 years to 30 years as of September 29, 2006. As to each of these facilities, management
determined that a particular amount within the range of estimated costs was a better estimate of the future environmental liability than any other amount within the range, and that the amount and timing of these future costs were reliably
determinable. The best estimate within the range was $17.7 million at September 29, 2006. We accordingly accrued $11.9 million, which represents our best estimate of the future costs of $17.7 million discounted at 4%, net of inflation.
          
   64   

Table of Contents  

   At September 29, 2006, our reserve for environmental liabilities, based upon future environmental related costs
estimated as of that date, was calculated as follows:       
    Recurring costs include expenses for such tasks as ongoing operation, maintenance and monitoring of cleanup while
non-recurring costs include expenses for such tasks as soil excavation and treatment, injection/monitoring well installation and other costs for soil and groundwater  in situ  treatment by injection, ground and surface water treatment system
construction, soil and groundwater investigation, certain governmental agency costs required to be reimbursed by us, governmental agency response costs (including agency costs required to be reimbursed by the responding company), treatment system
and monitoring well removal and closure, and costs to defend against and settle pending and anticipated third-party claims.      When we developed the estimates
above, we considered the financial strength of other potentially responsible parties. These amounts are, however, only estimates and may be revised in the future as we get more information on these projects. We may also spend more or less than these
estimates. Based on current information, we believe that our reserves are adequate, but as the scope of our obligations becomes more clearly defined, these reserves (and the associated indemnification obligations of VI and VSEA) may be modified and
related charges/credits against earnings may be made.      We receive certain cash payments in the form of settlements and judgments from defendants, our
insurers and other third parties from time to time. We have also reached an agreement with an insurance company under which the insurance company has agreed to pay a portion of our past and future environmental-related expenditures, and we therefore
had included a $3.0 million receivable in  Other assets  at September 29, 2006. We believe that this receivable is recoverable because it is based on a binding, written settlement agreement with a solvent and financially viable
insurance company and the insurance company has in the past paid the claims that we have made.      Our present and past facilities have been in operation for
many years, and over that time in the course of those operations, these facilities have used substances, that are or might be considered hazardous, and we have generated and disposed of wastes, that are or might be considered hazardous. Therefore,
it is possible that additional environmental issues may arise in the future that we cannot now predict.      We are also involved, from time to time, in other
legal proceedings, claims and government inspections or investigations, arising in the ordinary course of our business. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable with assurance. We accrue amounts that we believe
are adequate to address any liabilities related to legal proceedings and other loss contingencies that we believe will result in a probable loss. While there can be no assurances as to the ultimate outcome of any legal proceeding or other loss
contingency involving us, management does not believe any pending matter will be resolved in a manner that would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated  
       
   65   

Table of Contents  

financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, it is possible that a legal or other proceeding brought against us could have such an
impact.        Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements        In
conjunction with the sale of our products in the ordinary course of business, we provide standard indemnification of business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred for patent, copyright or any other intellectual property
infringement claims by any third parties with respect to our products. The term of these indemnification arrangements is generally perpetual. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these agreements is
unlimited. As of September 29, 2006, we have not incurred any costs since the spin-offs to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to these indemnification arrangements.      We have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and officers that may require us to indemnify our directors and officers against liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as
directors or officers, and to advance their expenses incurred as a result of any legal proceeding against them as to which they could be indemnified. Generally, the maximum obligation under such indemnifications is not explicitly stated and, as a
result, the overall amount of these obligations cannot be reasonably estimated.       Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections,  or SFAS 154, a replacement of APB No. 20,  Accounting Changes ,
and SFAS No. 3,  Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements . SFAS 154 changes the requirements for accounting for and reporting a change in accounting principle. Previously, most voluntary changes in accounting
principles required recognition via a cumulative effect adjustment within the net income of the period of the change. SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods  financial statements unless it is impracticable to determine
either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. SFAS 154 is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. We do not believe the adoption of SFAS 154 will have a material effect on our consolidated financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.      In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 , or SFAS 109. This interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109 . 
This interpretation is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. We are evaluating the impact of the adoption of this statement on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.      In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements , or SFAS 157. SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair
value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. We are currently assessing the
impact that SFAS 157 may have on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.      In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 158,  Employer s Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) , or SFAS 158. SFAS 158 requires us to (a) recognize a plan s
funded status in the statement of financial position, (b) measure a plan s assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the employer s fiscal year and (c) recognize changes in the funded status of
a defined postretirement plan in the year in which the changes occur through other comprehensive income. The requirement to recognize the funded status of a defined benefit plan and the disclosure requirements are effective for us in fiscal year
ending September 28, 2007. Based on the funded status of our plan obligations disclosed in  
       
   66   

Table of Contents  

Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the estimated impact of adopting SFAS 158 would have been a decrease in September 29, 2006
total assets of approximately $3 million, an increase in total liabilities of approximately $18 million and a reduction in stockholders  equity of approximately $21 million, excluding impact of taxes. There would have been no impact on our
September 29, 2006 Consolidated Statements of Earnings or Cash Flows. The actual impact of the implementation of SFAS 158 on the September 28, 2007 financial statements will differ due to changes in economic assumptions such as discount
rates, measurement of fair values of plan assets, and other changes in actuarial assumptions that will occur in connection with our next measurement date on September 28, 2007.      In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements , or SAB 108, to address diversity in
practice in quantifying financial statement misstatements. SAB 108 requires the quantification of misstatements based on their impact on both the balance sheet and the income statement to determine materiality. The guidance provides for a one-time
cumulative effect adjustment to correct for misstatements that were not deemed material under a company s prior approach but are material under the SAB 108 approach. SAB 108 is effective for our fourth quarter of fiscal year ending
September 28, 2007. We are assessing the potential impact that SAB 108 may have on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.       
  Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk       We are exposed to two primary
types of market risks: foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk.       Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk       As a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. Adverse movements
could have a material negative impact on our financial results. Our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in Europe, Asia and Australia.      We have significant transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain financial exposures through a program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. We sell
products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer s country, and typically hedge many of these firmly committed foreign currency denominated sales orders. These firmly committed foreign currency sales orders, excluding the
amounts relating to the products made outside of the United States, are hedged with forward exchange contracts. We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates.
We do not enter into forward exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. The forward exchange contracts range from one to twelve months in original maturity. As of September 29, 2006, we did not have any forward exchange contracts
with an original maturity greater than twelve months. As international deliveries may extend beyond twelve months, we may hedge beyond twelve months in the future.      We also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. We enter into monthly foreign currency forward exchange contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and
liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar functional currency.      The notional amounts of forward exchange contracts are not a measure
of our exposure. The fair value of forward exchange contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current
unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. A move in foreign currency exchange rates  
       
   67   

Table of Contents  

would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting
manner.      The notional values of sold and purchased forward exchange contracts for both hedges of foreign currency denominated sales orders and balance sheet
exposures from our subsidiaries outstanding at September 29, 2006 are as follows:       
     Interest Rate Risk       Our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio. Currently, our investment portfolio consists of cash and cash equivalents and highly liquid short-term marketable securities. In the
unlikely event that interest rates were to decrease substantially, we might reinvest a substantial portion of our investment portfolio at lower interest rates. We would consider additional debt obligations to support general corporate purposes,
including working capital requirements, capital expenditures and acquisitions. To date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate in our investment portfolio or long-term debt, but may consider the use of
derivative instruments in the future.      The principal amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at September 29, 2006 totaled
$366 million with a weighted average interest rate of 3.66% and an estimated average tax equivalent yield of 4.16%. The principal amount of marketable securities had an estimated average tax equivalent yield of 5.59% at September 29, 2006.
All of our marketable securities at September 29, 2006 were in municipal bonds. Our investment portfolio of marketable securities is classified as held-to-maturity (with the exception of our auction rate securities which are classified as
available-for-sale), and any gains or losses relating to changes in interest rates would occur in the unlikely event of liquidation of all or part of the investment portfolio. Our debt of $57.3 million at September 29, 2006 carried a
weighted average fixed interest rate of 6.88% with principal payments due in various installments over an eight-year period.         
   68   

Table of Contents  

   The table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year for our cash and cash
equivalents, marketable securities and long term debt.       
    The estimated fair value of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities (48% of which was held abroad
at September 29, 2006 and could be subject to additional taxation if it was repatriated to the United States) approximated the principal amounts reflected above based on the maturities of these financial instruments.      The fair value of our debt is estimated based on the current rates available to us for debt of similar terms and remaining maturities. Under this method, the fair value
of our debt was estimated to be $60.4 million at September 29, 2006. We determined the estimated fair value amount by using available market information and commonly accepted valuation methodologies. However, it requires considerable
judgment in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the fair value estimate presented is not necessarily indicative of the amount that we or holders of the instrument could realize in a current market exchange. The
use of different assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value.      Although payments under certain of our
operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk.         
   69   

Table of Contents  

Item 8.   
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data          VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS        

(1)  
  For fiscal year 2006, net earnings included total share-based compensation expense, net of taxes under SFAS 123(R), of $26,902. For fiscal years 2005 and 2004, net earnings included
share-based compensation expense, net of taxes, related to restricted stock, of $745 and $762, respectively. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.         See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.          
   70   

Table of Contents  

    VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS        
     See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.          
   71   

Table of Contents  

    VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        
     See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.          
   72   

Table of Contents  

    VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY        AND COMPREHENSIVE EARNINGS        
     See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.          
   73   

Table of Contents  

    VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        1.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES         Description of Business        Varian Medical Systems, Inc. ( VMS ) and subsidiaries (collectively, the  Company ) designs, manufactures, sells and services advanced equipment and software products for treating cancer with
radiation. The Company also designs, manufactures, sells and services high quality, cost-effective X-ray tubes for original equipment manufacturers; replacement X-ray tubes; flat panel digital image detectors for filmless X-rays (commonly referred
to as flat panel detectors or digital image detectors) for medical, scientific and industrial applications; and linear accelerators for security and inspection purposes.        Fiscal Year        The fiscal years of the Company as reported are the 52- or 53- week periods ending on the Friday
nearest September 30. Fiscal year 2006 was the 52-week period ending September 29, 2006. Fiscal year 2005 was the 52-week period ended on September 30, 2005 and fiscal year 2004 was the 53-week period ended on
October 1, 2004.        Principles of Consolidation        The consolidated financial statements include those of VMS and its subsidiaries. Significant intercompany balances, transactions, and stock holdings have been eliminated in consolidation.        Distribution        On April 2, 1999, Varian Associates, Inc.
reorganized into three separate publicly traded companies by spinning off, through a tax-free distribution, two of its businesses to stockholders (the  Spin-offs ). The Spin-offs resulted in the following three companies: 1) the Company
(renamed from Varian Associates, Inc. to Varian Medical Systems, Inc. following the Spin-offs); 2) Varian, Inc. ( VI  and 3) Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. ( VSEA ). The Spin-offs resulted in a non-cash
dividend to stockholders.      In connection with the Spin-offs, the Company, VI and VSEA also entered into various agreements that set forth the principles to
be applied in separating the companies and allocating certain related costs and specified portions of contingent liabilities (see Note 8).        Use of
Estimates        The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates.        Fair Value of Financial Instruments        The carrying amounts of the Company s financial instruments including cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable, net of allowance for
doubtful accounts, and accounts payable approximate fair value due to their short maturities.         
   74   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
     Foreign Currency Translation        VMS uses the U.S. dollar as the functional currency for all of its foreign subsidiaries. Accordingly, gains and losses from translation of foreign currency financial statements into U.S. dollars are included in
 Cost of revenues  and  Selling, general and administrative expenses  in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The aggregate foreign exchange net gain in these accounts was $2.7 million, $0.2 million and $0.9 million in fiscal
years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.        Cash and Cash Equivalents        The Company considers currency on hand, demand deposits, and all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash
equivalents are held in various financial institutions in the United States and internationally.            Marketable Securities        The Company s marketable securities comprise municipal bonds. Marketable
securities with an original maturity of more than three months and less than one year at the date of purchase are considered to be short-term. Auction rate securities are classified as short-term available-for-sale securities. Other marketable
securities are classified as held-to-maturity because the Company has the intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity. The held-to-maturity securities are carried at amortized cost using the specific identification method. Interest
income is recorded using an effective interest rate, with the associated premium or discount amortized to interest income. Additionally, the Company assesses whether an other-than-temporary impairment loss on the investments has occurred due to
declines in fair value or other market conditions. Declines in fair value that are considered other than temporary, if any, are recorded as charges in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The Company did not have any impairment loss on
marketable securities for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004. At September 29, 2006, all investments were in compliance with the corporate investment policy which requires a credit rating of A or better and a maturity of less than three years.
       Concentration of Credit Risk        Financial
instruments that potentially expose the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and trade accounts receivable. Cash and cash equivalents held with financial institutions may
exceed the amount of insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on such deposits. The Company has not experienced any losses on its deposits of cash and cash equivalents. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade
accounts receivable are limited due to the large number of customers comprising the Company s customer base and their geographic dispersion. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and, other than a down payment
typically required before shipments of products, it generally does not require collateral from its customers. The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon the expected collectibility of all accounts receivable. No single
customer represented more than 10% of the accounts receivable amount for any period presented.        Inventories        Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market (realizable value). Cost is computed using standard cost, which approximates actual cost on a first-in-first-out or
average basis.         
   75   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
     Property, Plant and Equipment        Property, plant and equipment are stated at the lower of cost or realizable value. Major improvements are capitalized, while repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred. Depreciation and amortization are
principally computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Land is not subject to depreciation, but land improvements are depreciated over fifteen years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of
estimated useful lives or remaining lease terms. Buildings are depreciated over twenty years. Machinery and equipment are depreciated over their estimated useful lives, which range from three to seven years. Assets subject to lease are amortized
over the lease term. When assets are retired or otherwise disposed of, the assets and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts. Gains or losses resulting from retirements or disposals are included in operating earnings.
       Long-Lived Assets        The Company reviews
long-lived assets and identifiable intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. The Company assesses these assets for impairment based on
estimated undiscounted future cash flows from these assets. If the carrying value of the assets exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows, the Company recognizes an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair
value of the assets. The Company did not recognize any impairment loss for long-lived assets in fiscal years 2006, 2005 or 2004.        Goodwill and
Intangible Assets        Pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 142  Goodwill and Intangible Assets
 ( SFAS 142 ), the Company performs an annual impairment test for goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives. Purchased intangible assets are carried at cost, net of accumulated amortization. Intangible assets with finite
lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives of approximately two to twenty years using the straight-line method.        Environmental Remediation
Liabilities          Environmental remediation liabilities are recorded when environmental assessments and/or remediation efforts are probable, and
the costs of these assessments or remediation efforts can be reasonably estimated. The Company records these liabilities in accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants  ( AICPA ) Statement of Position
( SOP ) 96-1,  Environmental Remediation Liabilities.         Revenue Recognition        The Company s revenues are derived primarily from hardware and software products sales and contract services of Oncology Systems products, X-ray products and
Security and Inspection products.       Hardware Products       The Company recognizes revenues for hardware products in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 104,  Revenue Recognition  ( SAB 104 ) when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery
has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. For an arrangement with multiple deliverables, the Company recognizes product  
       
   76   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 sales in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force No. 00-21,  Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables  ( EITF 00-21 ) with revenues
allocated among the different elements. The Company typically requires its customers to provide a down payment prior to transfer of risk of loss of ordered products or prior to performance under service contracts. These down payments are recorded as
 Advance payments from customers  in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.      For Oncology Systems and Security and Inspection hardware products with
installation obligations, the Company recognizes as revenues a portion of the product purchase price upon transfer of risk of loss and defers revenue recognition on the portion associated with product installation until  acceptance, 
provided that all other criteria for revenue recognition under SAB 104 and EITF 00-21 are met. The portion deferred is the greater of the fair market value of the installation services for such products or the amount of payment contractually linked
to the  acceptance.  However, when (a) all of the purchase price for the hardware product is conditioned upon  acceptance,  (b) the hardware product does not have value to the customer on a standalone basis, or
(c) there is no objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered item, the Company defers all revenues until  acceptance  in accordance with the treatment for  delivered items  under EITF 00-21.
     Installation of Oncology Systems and Security and Inspection hardware products involves the Company s testing of each product at its factory prior to
delivery of such product to ensure that the product meets the Company s published specifications. Once these tests establish that the specifications have been met, the product is then disassembled and shipped to the customer s site as
specified in the customer contract. Risk of loss is transferred to the customer either at the time of shipment or delivery, depending upon the shipping terms of the contract. At the customer s site, the product is reassembled, installed and
retested in accordance with the Company s installation procedures to ensure and demonstrate compliance with the Company s published specifications for such product.      Under the terms of the Company s hardware sales contract,  acceptance  of a hardware product with installation obligations is deemed to have occurred upon the earliest of (i) completion of product
installation and testing in accordance with the Company s standard installation procedures showing compliance with the Company s published specifications for that product, (ii) receipt by the Company of an acceptance form executed by
the customer acknowledging installation and compliance with the Company s published specification for that product, (iii) use by the customer of the product for any purpose after its delivery or (iv) six months after the delivery of
the product to the customer by the Company. The contract allows for cancellation only by mutual agreement, thus the customer does not have a unilateral right to return the delivered hardware product.      The Company does not have installation obligations for X-ray tubes, digital image detectors, spare parts and certain hardware products in Oncology Systems and Security
and Inspection business. For the products that do not include installation obligations, the Company recognizes revenues upon the transfer of risk of loss, which is either at the time of shipment or delivery, depending upon the shipping terms of the
contract, provided that all other criteria under SAB 104 and EITF 00-21 are met.       Software Products       The Company recognizes revenues for software products in accordance with SOP No. 97-2,  Software Revenue Recognition  ( SOP 97-2 ), as amended by SOP
No. 98-9,  Software Revenue Recognition with Respect to Certain Agreements . The Company recognizes license revenues when all of the following criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the vendor s fee is fixed
or determinable, collection of the related receivable is probable, delivery of the product has occurred and the Company  
       
   77   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 has received from the customer an acceptance form acknowledging installation and substantial conformance with the Company s specifications (as set forth
in the user manual) for such product, or upon verification of installation when customer acceptance is not required to be received, provided that all other criteria for revenue recognition under SOP 97-2 have been met. Revenues earned on software
arrangements involving multiple elements are allocated to each element based on vendor-specific objective evidence of the fair value ( VSOE ), which is based on the price charged when the same element is sold separately. In instances when
evidence of VSOE of all undelivered elements exists, but evidence does not exist for one or more delivered elements, revenues are recognized using the residual method. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred
and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is recognized as revenue. Revenue allocated to maintenance and support is recognized ratably over the maintenance term (typically one year).      Installation of the Company s software products involves a certain amount of customer-specific implementation to enable the software product to function within the
customer s operating environment ( i.e. , with the customer s information technology network and other hardware, with the customer s data interfaces and with the customer s administrative processes) and substantially in
conformance with the Company s specifications (as set forth in the user manual) for such product. With the Company s software products, customers do not have full use of the software ( i.e. , functionality) until the software is
installed as described above and functioning within the customer s operating environment. Therefore, the Company recognizes 100% of software revenues upon receipt from the customer of the Company s acceptance form acknowledging
installation and such substantial conformance, or upon verification of installation when the Company is not required to receive customer acceptance, or upon the expiration of an acceptance period, provided that all other criteria for revenue
recognition under SOP 97-2 have been met.       Other       Revenues related to service contracts are recognized ratably over the period of the related contracts. Revenues related to services performed on a time-and-materials basis are recognized when it is earned and billable.        Share-Based Compensation Expense        Effective October 1,
2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123(R) ), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and
directors, including stock options, employee stock purchases related to the Varian Medical Systems, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  Employee Stock Purchase Plan ), deferred stock units and restricted stock based on their fair
values. SFAS 123(R) supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB 25 ), which the Company previously followed in accounting for stock-based awards. In March 2005, the
Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) issued  SAB No. 107  ( SAB 107 ) to provide guidance on SFAS 123(R). The Company has applied SAB 107 in its adoption of SFAS 123(R).      The Company adopted SFAS 123(R), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to the Company s
employees and directors including stock options and employee stock purchases under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, deferred stock units and restricted stock based on fair values. The Company s financial statements for the year ended
September 29, 2006 reflect the impact of SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method.  
       
   78   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)    
  
 In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, the Company s financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect,
and do not include, the impact of SFAS 123(R). Share-based compensation expense is based on the value of the portion of share-based payment awards that is ultimately expected to vest. Share-based compensation expense recognized in the Company s
Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the year ended September 29, 2006 included compensation expense for share-based payment awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of, September 30, 2005 based on the grant date fair value
estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ), and compensation expense for the share-based payment awards granted subsequent to September 30,
2005 based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). In conjunction with the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company elected to attribute the value of share-based compensation to expense using the
straight-line method, which was previously used for its pro forma information required under SFAS 123.     Upon adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company elected to
value its share-based payment awards granted beginning in fiscal year 2006 using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model (the  Black-Scholes model ), which was previously used for its pro forma information required under SFAS 123 for fiscal
years 2005 and 2004. The Black-Scholes model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. The Black-Scholes model requires the input of certain assumptions.
VMS s stock options and the option component of the Employee Stock Purchase Plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and changes in the assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimates.
See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of SFAS 123(R).     On November 10, 2005, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) No. FAS 123(R)-3  Transition Election Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards  ( FSP 123(R)-3 ). The Company has
adopted the  short-cut  method provided in FSP 123(R)-3 for calculating the tax effects of share-based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R). The  short-cut  method includes simplified methods to establish the beginning balance of
the additional paid-in capital pool ( APIC pool ) related to the tax effects of share-based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the APIC pool and the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows of the tax effects of
share-based compensation awards that are outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R).        Earnings per Share        Basic net earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period. Diluted net
earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings by the sum of the weighted average number of common shares outstanding and dilutive common shares under the treasury method.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   The following table sets forth the computation of net basic and diluted earnings per share:       
    In fiscal year 2006, pursuant to SFAS 123 (R), the Company excludes stock options from the computation of diluted
weighted average shares outstanding if the per share value, including the sum of (a) the exercise price of the options, (b) the amount of the compensation cost attributed to future services and not yet recognized and (c) the amount of
tax benefit that would be recorded in additional paid-in capital when the award becomes deductible, is greater than the average market price of the shares because the inclusion of these stock options would be antidilutive to earnings per share. In
fiscal years 2005 and 2004, the Company excluded stock options from the computation of diluted weighted average shares outstanding if the exercise price of the stock option was greater than the average market price of the shares as the Company
accounted for stock-based compensation under the intrinsic value method as defined by APB 25. Accordingly, stock options to purchase 4,163,183 shares, 2,740,328 shares and 250,124 shares at weighted average exercise prices of $46.47, $40.07 and
$42.25, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted weighted average shares outstanding during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.        Shipping and Handling Costs        Shipping and handling costs are included as a component of cost of revenues.        Research and Development        To date, research and development
costs have been expensed as incurred. These costs primarily include employees  compensations, consulting fees, material costs and research grants primarily to universities.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
     Software Development Costs        Costs for the development of new software products and substantial enhancements to existing software products are expensed as incurred until technological feasibility has been established, at which time any
     additional costs would be capitalized in accordance with SFAS No. 86,  Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed.  The costs to
develop software have not been capitalized as the Company believes its current software development process is essentially completed concurrent with the establishment of technological feasibility.        Comprehensive Earnings        Comprehensive earnings include all
changes in equity (net assets) during a period from non-owner sources. The change in comprehensive earnings for all periods presented resulted from a minimum pension liability adjustment, net of taxes (see Note 9).        Taxes on Earnings        Taxes on earnings are based on pretax
financial accounting income. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are
expected to reverse.        Reclassifications        Certain
financial statement items have been reclassified to conform to the current year s format. These reclassifications had no impact on previously reported net earnings.        Recent Accounting Pronouncements        In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and
Error Corrections  ( SFAS 154 ), a replacement of APB No. 20,  Accounting Changes , and SFAS No. 3,  Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements . SFAS 154 changes the requirements for accounting for
and reporting a change in accounting principle. Previously, most voluntary changes in accounting principles required recognition via a cumulative effect adjustment within net income of the period of the change. SFAS 154 requires retrospective
application to prior periods  financial statements unless it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. SFAS 154 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year
2007. The Company does not believe the adoption of SFAS 154 will have a material effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.      In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  ( SFAS 109 ). This interpretation clarifies the accounting for
uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109 .  This interpretation is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. The Company is evaluating the impact
of the adoption of this statement on the Company s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.      In September 2006, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value
measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company is currently assessing  
       
   81   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 the impact that SFAS 157 may have on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.      In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employer s Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB
Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)  ( SFAS 158 ). SFAS 158 requires the Company to (a) recognize a plan s funded status in its statement of financial position, (b) measure a plan s assets and its obligations
that determine its funded status as of the end of the employer s fiscal year and (c) recognize changes in the funded status of a defined postretirement plan in the year in which the changes occur through other comprehensive income. The
requirement to recognize the funded status of a defined benefit plan and the disclosure requirements are effective for the Company s fiscal year ending September 28, 2007. Based on the funded status of the Company s plan obligations
disclosed in Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the estimated impact of adopting SFAS 158 would have been a decrease in total assets at September 29, 2006 of approximately $3 million, an increase in total liabilities
of approximately $18 million and a reduction in shareholders  equity of approximately $21 million, excluding impact of taxes. There would have been no impact on the Company s September 29, 2006 Consolidated Statements of Earnings or
Cash Flows. The actual impact of the implementation of SFAS 158 on the September 28, 2007 financial statements will differ due to changes in economic assumptions such as discount rates, measurement of fair values of plan assets, and other
changes in actuarial assumptions that will occur in connection with the next measurement date on September 28, 2007.      In September 2006, the SEC issued
SAB No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements  ( SAB 108 ), to address diversity in practice in quantifying financial statement
misstatements. SAB 108 requires the quantification of misstatements based on their impact on both the balance sheet and the income statement to determine materiality. The guidance provides for a one-time cumulative effect adjustment to correct for
misstatements that were not deemed material under a company s prior approach but are material under the SAB 108 approach. SAB 108 is effective for the Company s fourth quarter of fiscal year ending September 28, 2007. The Company is
assessing the potential impact that SAB 108 may have on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.       2. BALANCE SHEET
COMPONENTS       The following tables provide details of selected balance sheet components:       

(1)  
  Marketable securities are all municipal bonds.        At September 29,
2006, the remaining contractual maturities of all marketable securities were less than one year. Of the total marketable securities at September 29, 2006, $90.0 million was classified as available-for-sale and $3.6 million was classified as
held-to-maturity.         
   82   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
    
      Other long-term liabilities:        As of September 29, 2006, other long-term liabilities primarily consisted of accruals for environmental costs that are not expected to be expended within fiscal year 2007 and deferred income tax liabilities. As
of September 30, 2005, other long-term liabilities primarily consisted of deferred income tax liabilities, accruals for environmental costs that were not expected to be expended within fiscal year 2006 and the mandatorily redeemable financial
instrument as discussed below. The current portion of the accruals for environmental costs is included within  Accrued expenses.        Mandatorily
Redeemable Financial Instrument       In addition to purchasing the radiotherapy equipment service business (the  Service Business ) of Mitsubishi
Electric Co. ( MELCO ) as discussed in more detail in Note 8, the Company entered into a joint venture with MELCO on February 3, 2004, through MELCO s purchase of a 35% ownership interest in VMS s Japanese subsidiary
( VMS KK ) for 1.4 billion Japanese Yen, or US$13.5 million. During the three-year joint venture ( JVA ) period, MELCO is not entitled to any profits or losses generated by VMS KK. However, MELCO is entitled to elect one of the
five members of VMS KK s board of directors. At the end of the three-year JVA period (February 2007), MELCO is unconditionally required to sell and VMS is unconditionally required to repurchase MELCO s 35% ownership interest in VMS KK at
the original sale price (1.4 billion Japanese Yen) and there are no settlement alternatives to such a repurchase obligation. The Company has accounted for MELCO s 35% ownership interest as a mandatorily redeemable financial instrument, which is
included in  Accrued expenses  and  Other long- term liabilities  in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005,  
       
   83   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 respectively. The mandatorily redeemable financial instrument amounted to $12.1 million and $12.5 million as of September 29, 2006 and
September 30, 2005, respectively, based on then-current exchange rates.       3. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS       Pursuant to SFAS 142, the Company performs an annual impairment test for goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. The impairment test for goodwill is
a two-step process. Step one consists of a comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including the goodwill allocated to each reporting unit. If the carrying amount is in excess of the fair value, step two requires
the comparison of the implied fair value of the reporting unit with the carrying amount of the reporting unit s goodwill. Any excess of the carrying value of the reporting unit s goodwill over the implied fair value of the reporting
unit s goodwill is recorded as an impairment loss. The impairment test for intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, if any, consists of a comparison of fair value to carrying value, with any excess of carrying value over fair value being
recorded as an impairment loss. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized using the straight-line method over their useful lives, which range from approximately two to twenty years.      The Company performed its annual SFAS 142 goodwill impairment assessment for its two reporting units that have goodwill in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 and
determined that there was no impairment. However, the Company could be required to record impairment charges in future periods if indicators of potential impairment exist.      The following table reflects the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization of the Company s intangible assets included in  Other assets  on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows:
      
    Amortization expense for intangible assets required to be amortized under SFAS 142 was $5.9 million, $5.7 million
and $4.4 million for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company estimates amortization expense on a straight-line basis for fiscal years 2007 through 2011 and thereafter, to be as follows (in millions): $4.5, $3.0, $2.4, $2.0,
$1.3 and $0.6.      The following table reflects goodwill allocated to the Company s reportable segments:       
       
   84   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
    4. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS       In fiscal years 1999 and 2000, VMS invested a total of $5 million in a three member consortium for a 20% ownership interest in dpiX Holding LLC ( dpiX Holding ), which in turn invested $25 million for
an 80.1% ownership interest in dpiX LLC ( dpiX ), a supplier of amorphous silicon based thin-film transistor arrays ( flat panels ) for the Company s X-ray Products  digital imaging subsystems and for its Oncology
Systems  On-Board Imager or PortalVision imaging systems. During fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company purchased flat panels from dpiX totaling approximately $14.1 million, $11.3 million and $9.8 million, respectively, which are
included as a component of  Inventory  in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and  Cost of revenues product  in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for such years. VMS had the right to appoint one manager of the five person
board of managers and the investment was accounted for under the equity method. In accordance with the dpiX Holding agreement, net losses were to be allocated to the other two members, in succession, until their capital accounts equaled zero, before
being allocated to VMS. The dpiX Holding agreement also provided that net profits were to be allocated to the other two members, in succession, until their capital accounts equaled the net losses previously allocated, then to the three members in
accordance with their ownership interests.      In September 2004, VMS acquired another member s entire 20% ownership interest in dpiX Holding for $1
million. As a result, VMS has the right to appoint two managers of the five person board of managers and its ownership interest in dpiX Holding increased to 40% with the remaining 60% being held by the other original member. When VMS acquired this
additional 20% ownership interest, the capital account of the selling member was nearly zero because it was the first in the consortium to be allocated losses. However, dpiX Holding has been profitable since VMS acquired the additional 20% ownership
interest. As a result, VMS was the first to be allocated net profits to recover previously allocated losses and recorded in fiscal years 2006 and 2005 income on the equity investment in dpiX Holding of $1.4 million and $3.4 million, respectively,
which is included in  Selling, general and administrative  expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings.      In accordance with the dpiX
agreement, the member that owns the other 19.9% ownership interest in dpiX had the right to sell back to dpiX on dpiX s last business day in December 2004, 2005 and 2006, cumulatively all of that member s ownership interest for $5 million
if dpiX had not become a publicly traded company as of the last business day in December 2004. In December 2004, that member exercised its right to sell back to dpiX its 19.9% ownership interest. On each of December 22, 2005 and
December 24, 2004, dpiX repurchased from that member a 7.96% ownership interest for a payment of $2 million (in aggregate, 15.92% interest for $4 million). The remaining 3.98% ownership interest will be repurchased by dpiX in December 2006. In
accordance with the dpiX agreement, the repurchased ownership interest was allocated to the two remaining members of dpiX Holding. As a result, VMS s indirect ownership interest in dpiX increased to 38.4% as of September 29, 2006.
     In December 2004, VMS agreed to loan $2 million to dpiX in four separate installments, bearing interest at prime rate plus 1% per annum. The principal
balance is due and payable to VMS in twelve equal quarterly installments beginning in October 2006; interest is payable in full according to the same quarterly schedule, but beginning in April 2005; and the entire principal balance, together with
accrued and unpaid interest thereon and all other related amounts payable hereunder, is fully due and payable on July 10, 2009. As of September 29, 2006, the note receivable from dpiX totaled $2 million, is primarily included in
 Other Assets  in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. As of September 30, 2005, the note receivable from dpiX totaled $2 million, which is included in  Other Assets.          
   85   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   In March 2006, VMS and the other member of dpiX Holding agreed in principle to invest an aggregate of $92 million in
dpiX Holding for dpiX to acquire and construct a manufacturing facility in Colorado to increase its production capacity. The members  contributions for this facility are based on their percentage of ownership interest in dpiX Holding. As of
September 29, 2006, VMS had contributed to dpiX Holding approximately $12 million, which is included in  Other assets.  VMS expects to invest in dpiX Holding for an additional $25 million over the next twelve months.       5. DEBT       Debt outstanding at September 29, 2006 and
September 30, 2005 is summarized as follows:       

(1)  
  As of September 29, 2006, land and buildings with a carrying amount of $9.9 million were pledged as collateral against these loans.        The remaining unsecured term loan agreements contain a covenant that requires the Company to pay prepayment penalties if the Company elects to pay off this debt before
the maturity dates and the market interest rate is lower than the fixed interest rates of the debt at the time of repayment. They also contain covenants that limit future borrowings and cash dividend payments and require the Company to maintain
specified levels of working capital and operating results. For all fiscal years presented within these consolidated financial statements, the Company was in compliance with all restrictive covenants of the unsecured term loan agreements.   
  Interest paid on debt was $4.1 million for each of fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004. At September 29, 2006, aggregate debt maturities for fiscal years 2007
through 2011 and thereafter are as follows (in millions): $7.9, $9.0, $8.0, $9.0, $5.5 and $17.9.      The fair value of the Company s debt was estimated
to be $60.4 million at September 29, 2006 based on the then-current rates available to the Company for debt of similar terms and remaining maturities. The Company determined the estimated fair value amount by using available market information
and commonly accepted valuation methodologies. However, considerable judgment is required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the fair value estimate presented herein is not necessarily indicative of the
amount that the Company or holders of the  
       
   86   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 instruments could realize in a current market exchange. The use of different assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the
estimated fair value.       6. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES       Pursuant to SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , as amended by SFAS No. 149, Amendment of SFAS No. 133 on  Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities  ( SFAS 133 ), the Company measures all derivatives at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The accounting for gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair values of those derivatives depends upon the use of
the derivative and whether it qualifies for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment must be recognized in earnings, together with elements excluded from effectiveness testing and
the ineffective portion of a particular hedge. The Company s derivative instruments are recorded at their fair value in  Prepaid expenses and other current assets  and  Accrued expenses  on the Company s Consolidated
Balance Sheets.      The Company has significant transactions denominated in foreign currencies and addresses certain financial exposures through a program of
risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. The Company sells products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer s country, and typically hedges many of these firmly committed foreign currency
sales orders. These firmly committed foreign currency sales orders are hedged using forward exchange contracts. The Company enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency
exchange rates. The Company does not enter into forward exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. The forward exchange contracts range from one to twelve months in original maturity. As of September 29, 2006, the Company did not
have any forward exchange contracts with an original maturity greater than twelve months. As international deliveries may extend beyond twelve months, the Company may hedge beyond twelve months in the future.      The Company currently uses only derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges as prescribed by SFAS 133. For each derivative contract, the Company formally
documents at the hedge s inception the relationship between the hedging instrument (forward contract) and hedged item (firmly committed foreign currency denominated sales order), the nature of the risk being hedged, as well as its risk
management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. The Company also formally assesses, both at the hedge s inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in
offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items. As the terms of the forward exchange contract and the underlying transaction are matched at inception, forward exchange contract effectiveness is calculated by comparing the cumulative change in the
fair value of the forward exchange contract to the change in the spot rates of the related firm commitment. If a derivative qualifies as a fair value hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative are offset against changes in the fair value of
the underlying firm commitment, the difference of which is recognized currently in  Cost of revenues.  Hedges are tested for effectiveness by comparing the foreign currency forward rate at inception versus the current balance sheet rate
forward adjusted. The change reflects the Company s conclusion that, under SFAS 133, hedge effectiveness will not be impacted when time value is included in hedge effectiveness testing, as the critical terms of the contract and the
underlying hedged item, including maturity, are matched. The Company could experience ineffectiveness on any specific hedge transaction if the hedged item (a previously firmly committed sales order) is cancelled or if the delivery date is
re-scheduled.      The Company also hedges balance sheet exposures from its various foreign subsidiaries and business units. The Company enters into monthly
foreign currency forward exchange contracts to minimize the  
       
   87   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar functional currency. These
hedges of foreign-currency-denominated assets and liabilities do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under SFAS 133. For derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments, changes in their fair values are recognized in
 Selling, general and administrative expenses  in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings.      Changes in the values of these hedging instruments are
offset by changes in the values of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.   Variations from the forecasted foreign currency assets or liabilities, coupled with a significant currency movement, may result in a material gain or loss
if the hedges are not effectively offsetting the change in value of the foreign currency asset or liability.      Other than foreign exchange hedging
activities, the Company has no other freestanding or embedded derivative instruments.      During fiscal year 2006, there were no material gains or losses due
to hedge ineffectiveness. At September 29, 2006, the Company had foreign exchange forward contracts for fair value hedges with notional values to sell and purchase $245.7 million and $15.1 million, respectively, in various foreign
currencies. At September 30, 2005, the Company had foreign currency forward exchange contracts for fair value hedges that matured throughout fiscal year 2006 with notional values to sell $304.0 million and to purchase
$11.1 million in various foreign currencies. At September 29, 2006, all open forward exchange contracts were deemed effective.       7. GUARANTEES
        Indemnification Agreements        In conjunction
with the sale of the Company s products in the ordinary course of business, the Company provides standard indemnification of business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred for patent, copyright or any other intellectual
property infringement claims by any third parties with respect to its products. The terms of these indemnification arrangements are generally perpetual. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under
these arrangements is unlimited. As of September 29, 2006, the Company had not incurred any costs since the Spin-offs to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to these indemnification arrangements. As a result, the Company believes the
estimated fair value of these arrangements is minimal.      VMS has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and officers that may require VMS
to indemnify its directors and officers against liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers, and to advance their expenses incurred as a result of any legal proceeding against them as to which they could
be indemnified.        Product Warranty        The Company
provides for estimated future costs of warranty obligations in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 45,  Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others 
which requires an entity to disclose and recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligation it assumes upon issuance of a guarantee. The Company warrants most of its products for a specific period of time, usually one year, against material
defects. The Company provides for the estimated future costs of warranty obligations in cost of revenues when the related revenues are recognized. The accrued warranty costs represent the best estimate at the time of sale of the total costs that the
Company will incur to repair or replace product parts that fail while still  
       
   88   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 under warranty. The amount of accrued estimated warranty costs obligation for established products is primarily based on historical experience as to product
failures adjusted for current information on repair costs. For new products, estimates will include historical experience of similar products, as well as reasonable allowance for start-up expenses. On a quarterly basis, the Company reviews the
accrued warranty costs and updates the historical warranty cost trends.      The following table reflects the changes in the Company s accrued product
warranty during fiscal years 2006 and 2005:       
     8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES         Lease Commitments        At September 29, 2006, the Company was committed to minimum rentals under
noncancelable operating leases (including rent escalation clauses) for fiscal years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 and thereafter, as follows (in millions): $11.5, $8.9, $7.0, $4.7, $3.4 and $6.1, respectively. Rental expense for fiscal years 2006,
2005 and 2004 (in millions) was $19.4, $20.5 and $16.7, respectively.        Other Commitments        Following a decision by MELCO to exit the radiotherapy equipment and service business and its desire to do so in a nondisruptive manner with an established radiotherapy
equipment service provider, the Company entered into two separate transactions with MELCO contemporaneously whereby (i) the Company purchased MELCO s Service Business to service MELCO s existing customers and (ii) the Company
formed a three-year JVA in Japan with MELCO that was effective as of February 3, 2004.      On February 2, 2004, VMS KK purchased the Service Business
in Japan and certain other Asian and South American countries for 2.0 billion Japanese Yen, or US$19.1 million, plus a contingent  earn out  payable to MELCO at the end of the JVA period. This  earn out  payment is equivalent to
100% of the net profits or losses of the Service Business for the three-year period. The Company accounted for the purchase of the Service Business as an acquisition and 100% of the profits and losses from VMS KK are reflected in the Company s
consolidated results. The Company accounts for the  earn out  payment equivalent to 100% of the net profits or losses of the Service Business during the three-year period as an adjustment to the purchase price of the acquisition at the end
of the JVA period. For the period from February 2, 2004 to September 29, 2006, net profits for the Service Business totaled approximately $3.6 million. Assuming no future profits and losses, $3.6 million would be payable to MELCO at the
end of the three-year JVA period.      In addition to purchasing the Service Business, the Company entered into a distributor arrangement with MELCO to sell
MELCO radiotherapy equipment products through VMS KK for two years. During that two-year period, which ended February 2, 2006, the Company did not sell any MELCO radiotherapy equipment products.         
   89   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   The JVA was accomplished through MELCO s purchase on February 3, 2004 of a 35% ownership interest in VMS KK
for 1.4 billion Japanese Yen, or US$13.5 million. During the three-year JVA period, MELCO is not entitled to any profits or losses generated by VMS KK. However, MELCO is entitled to elect one of the five members of VMS KK s board of directors.
At the end of the three-year JVA period, MELCO is required to unconditionally sell and the Company is required to unconditionally repurchase MELCO s 35% ownership interest in VMS KK at the original sale price (1.4 billion Japanese Yen) and
there are no settlement alternatives to such a repurchase obligation. The Company has accounted for MELCO s 35% ownership interest as a mandatorily redeemable financial instrument, which is included in  Accrued expenses  and
 Other long-term liabilities  in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, as of September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively.        Contingencies        The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) or third parties have named the Company as a potentially
responsible party ( PRP ) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ( CERCLA ), at eight sites where the Company, as Varian Associates, Inc., is alleged to have shipped
manufacturing waste for recycling or disposal, and as a PRP the Company may have an obligation to reimburse the EPA or other third parties for cleanup costs at these sites. In addition, the Company is overseeing environmental cleanup projects and,
as applicable, reimbursing third parties for cleanup activities under the direction of, or in consultation with, federal, state and/or local agencies at certain current VMS or former Varian Associates, Inc. facilities (including facilities disposed
of in connection with the Company s sale of its Electron Devices business during 1995 and the sale of its thin film systems business during 1997). Under the terms of the agreement governing the Spin-offs of VI and VSEA, by the Company in 1999,
VI and VSEA are each obligated to indemnify the Company for one-third of these environmental cleanup costs (after adjusting for any insurance proceeds realized or tax benefits recognized by the Company). The Company spent $1.3 million, $1.1 million
and $2.1 million (net of amounts borne by VI and VSEA) during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, on environmental cleanup costs, third-party claim costs, project management costs and legal costs.      Various uncertainties make it difficult to estimate the likelihood or cost of certain third-party claims, project management costs and legal costs at all of the sites and
facilities. In addition, for these eight sites and one of these facilities, various uncertainties make it difficult to assess the likelihood and scope of further cleanup activities or to estimate the future cost of such activities. As of
September 29, 2006, the Company nonetheless estimated that the Company s future exposure (net of VI s and VSEA s indemnification obligations) for these cleanup costs, third party-claims, project management costs and legal costs
ranged in the aggregate from $3.6 million to $7.2 million. The time frames over which these cleanup project costs are estimated vary ranging from one year up to 14 years as of September 29, 2006. Management believes that no amount in
the foregoing range of estimated future costs is more probable of being incurred than any other amount in such range and therefore accrued $3.6 million as of September 29, 2006. The amount accrued has not been discounted to present value
due to the uncertainties that make it difficult to develop a best estimate of future costs.      As to all other facilities, the Company has gained sufficient
knowledge to better estimate the scope and costs of future cleanup activities based upon formal agreements with other parties defining the Company s future liabilities or formal cleanup plans that have either been approved by or completed in
accordance with the requirements of the state or federal environmental agency with jurisdiction over the facility. As of September 29, 2006, the Company estimated that the Company s future exposure (net of  
       
   90   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 VI s and VSEA s indemnification obligations) for the cleanup costs at these facilities, and reimbursements of third party s claims for these
facilities, ranged in the aggregate from $9.8 million to $36.4 million. The time frames over which these cleanup project costs are estimated vary, ranging from 2 years to 30 years as of September 29, 2006. As to each of these
facilities, management determined that a particular amount within the range of estimated costs was a better estimate of the future environmental liability than any other amount within the range, and that the amount and timing of these future costs
were reliably determinable. The best estimate within the range was $17.7 million at September 29, 2006. The Company accordingly accrued $11.9 million, which represents its best estimate of the future costs of $17.7 million discounted at
4%, net of inflation. This accrual is in addition to the $3.6 million described in the preceding paragraph.      At September 29, 2006, the
Company s reserve for environmental liabilities, based upon future environmental-related costs estimated as of that date, was calculated as follows:       
    Recurring costs include expenses for such tasks as ongoing operation, maintenance and monitoring of cleanup while
non-recurring costs include expenses for such tasks as soil excavation and treatment, injection/monitoring well installation and other costs for soil and groundwater  in situ  treatment by injection, ground and surface water treatment system
construction, soil and groundwater investigation, certain governmental agency costs required to be reimbursed by the Company, governmental agency response costs (including agency costs required to be reimbursed by the responding company), treatment
system and monitoring well removal and closure, and costs to defend against and settle pending and anticipated third-party claims.      The foregoing amounts
are only estimates of anticipated future environmental-related costs to cover the known cleanup projects, and the amounts actually spent may be greater or less than such estimates. The aggregate range of cost estimates reflects various uncertainties
inherent in many environmental cleanup activities, the large number of sites and facilities involved and the amount of third-party claims. The Company believes that most of these cost ranges will narrow as cleanup activities progress. The Company
believes that its reserves are adequate, but as the scope of its obligations becomes more clearly defined, these reserves (and the associated indemnification obligations of VI and VSEA) may be modified and related charges/credits against earnings
may be made.      Although any ultimate liability arising from environmental-related matters described herein could result in significant expenditures that, if
aggregated and assumed to occur within a single fiscal year would be material to the Company s consolidated financial statements, the likelihood of such occurrence is  
       
   91   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 considered remote. Based on information currently available to management and its best assessment of the ultimate amount and timing of environmental-related
events (and assuming VI and VSEA satisfy their indemnification obligations), management believes that the costs of these environmental-related matters are not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial
statements of the Company in any fiscal year.      The Company evaluates its liability for environmental-related investigation and cleanup costs in light of the
liability and financial strength of potentially responsible parties and insurance companies with respect to which the Company believes that it has rights to contribution, indemnity and/or reimbursement (in addition to the obligations of VI and
VSEA). Claims for recovery of environmental investigation and cleanup costs already incurred, and to be incurred in the future, have been asserted against various insurance companies and other third parties. The Company receives certain cash
payments in the form of settlements and judgments from defendants, its insurers and other third parties from time to time. The Company has also reached an agreement with another insurance company under which the insurance company has agreed to pay a
portion of the Company s past and future environmental-related expenditures, and the Company therefore included a $3.0 million receivable in  Other assets  at September 29, 2006. The Company believes that this receivable is
recoverable because it is based on a binding, written settlement agreement with a solvent and financially viable insurance company and the insurance company has in the past paid the claims that the Company has made.      Following the Spin-offs, the Company retained the liabilities related to the medical systems business. In addition, the Company agreed to manage and defend liabilities
related to legal proceedings and environmental matters arising from corporate or discontinued operations of the Company prior to the Spin-offs. VI and VSEA generally are each obligated to indemnify the Company for one-third of these liabilities
(after adjusting for any insurance proceeds realized or tax benefits recognized by the Company), including certain environmental-related liabilities described above, and to fully indemnify the Company for liabilities arising from the operations of
the business transferred to each prior to the Spin-offs. The availability of such indemnities will depend upon the future financial strength of VI and VSEA. Given the long-term nature of some of the liabilities, the relevant company may be unable to
fund the indemnities in the future. It is also possible that a court would disregard this contractual allocation of indebtedness, liabilities and obligations among the parties and require the Company to assume responsibility for obligations
allocated to another party, particularly if such other party were to refuse or was unable to pay or perform any of its allocated obligations. In addition, the agreement governing the Spin-offs generally provides that if a court prohibits a company
from satisfying its indemnification obligations, then the indemnification obligations will be shared equally between the two other companies.      The Company
is also involved in other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of its business. While there can be no assurances as to the ultimate outcome of any litigation involving the Company, management does not believe any pending legal proceeding
will result in a judgment or settlement that would have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.         
   92   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
    9. RETIREMENT PLANS       The Company sponsors the Varian Medical Systems, Inc. Retirement Plan (the  Retirement Plan )   a defined contribution plan that is available to substantially all of its employees in the United States. Under
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Retirement Plan allows for tax-deferred salary contributions by eligible employees.      Participants can
contribute from 1% to 40% of their eligible base compensation to the Retirement Plan (up to 25% on a pre-tax basis and an additional 15% on an after-tax basis (for those employees with one or more years of service with the Company)). However,
participant contributions are limited to a maximum annual amount as determined periodically by the Internal Revenue Service. The Company matches eligible participant contributions dollar for dollar for the first 6% of eligible base compensation. In
addition, should a participant elect to contribute his or her Employee Incentive Plan award to the Retirement Plan, the Company matches 6% of this contribution. All matching contributions vest immediately. The Retirement Plan allows participants to
invest up to 25% of their contributions in shares of VMS s common stock as an investment option. The Company also sponsors four defined benefit plans for regular full-time employees in Germany, Japan, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Total
retirement and defined benefit plan expense for all retirement plans amounted to $15.5 million, $14.4 million and $13.8 million for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.         
   93   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
     Obligations and Funded Status        The funded status of the defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans as of September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005 was as follows:       
       
   94   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   The total fair value of plan assets, projected benefit obligation and accumulated benefit obligation for those
defined benefit plans where accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of plan assets as of the end of the fiscal years were as follows:       
    The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit plans was $84.1 million and $70.9 million at
September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively.        Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost        The Company s net defined benefit and post-retirement benefit costs are composed of the following:       
      Additional Information        The Company evaluates each defined benefit plan annually to determine whether any additional minimum liability is required. In fiscal year 2006, an adjustment to the additional minimum pension liability was required
for certain plans as a result of higher than expected investment returns on assets in certain countries. In fiscal year 2005, an adjustment to the additional minimum pension liability was required for certain plans as a result of the decreases in
discount rates and a decrease in expected investment returns. In fiscal year 2004, an adjustment to the additional minimum pension liability was required for certain plans as a result of changes in interest rates and changes in investment returns.
The adjustment in the liability was recorded as a charge or a (credit) to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss, net of taxes, in stockholders  equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.       
       
   95   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
     Assumptions        The assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost and to compute the expected long-term return on assets for the Company s defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans are as follows:       
    The assumptions used to measure the benefit obligations for the Company s defined benefit and post-retirement
benefit plans are as follows:       
    The benefit obligations of defined benefit plans and post-retirement benefit plans were measured as of
September 29, 2006 and July 1, 2006, respectively. For defined benefit plans, the discount rate was adjusted as of September 29, 2006 to the range of 2.30% to 4.95% primarily based on the then-current yields on high quality AA-rated
corporate bonds with durations corresponding to the expected durations of the benefit obligations. In countries where the corporate bond market is not sufficiently representative at longer durations, the discount rate also takes into account
the yield of long-term government bonds corresponding to the duration of the benefit obligations and the difference between the yield curve on high quality corporate fixed-income investments and government fixed-income investment.
Additionally, the rate of projected compensation increase was adjusted as of September 29, 2006 to the range of 1.75% to 4.25% reflecting expected inflation levels and future outlook. For post-retirement benefit plans, the discount rate was
increased as of September 29, 2006 to 6.00% based on historical practice and the changing duration of the benefit obligations. The Company reviewed the expected long-term rate of return on defined benefit plan assets. This review consisted of
forward-looking projections for a risk-free rate of return, inflation rate, and implied equity risk premiums for particular asset classes. Historical returns were not used. The results of this review were applied to the target asset allocation in
accordance with the Company s planned investment strategies, which are implemented by outside investment managers. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets was determined based on the weighted average of projected returns on each
asset class.         
   96   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   The assumptions used to determine the assumed healthcare cost trend rates for post-retirement benefit plans are as
follows:       
    Assumed healthcare cost trend rates could have an effect on the amounts reported for healthcare plans. A 1.0
percentage point increase in the assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have increased the total service cost and interest cost components reported in fiscal year 2006 by $24,000 and would have increased the post-retirement benefit
obligation reported in fiscal year 2006 by $493,000. A 1.0 percentage point decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have decreased the total service cost and interest cost components reported in fiscal year 2006 by
$22,000 and would have decreased the post-retirement benefit obligation in fiscal year 2006 by $441,000.        Plan Assets        The Company s defined benefit plans weighted average asset allocations at September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005 and target allocations for fiscal
year-end 2006, by asset category, were as follows:       

(1)  
  The other category primarily consists of investments in money market funds and in general accounts and other investment funds offered by insurance companies.
       The investment objectives of the Company in respect of the defined benefit plan are to generate returns that will enable the defined benefit
plans to meet their future obligations. The precise amount of these obligations depends on future events, including the life expectancy of the benefit plans  members and the level of salary increase. The obligations are estimated using
actuarial assumptions, based on the current economic environment. The investment strategy depends on the country to which the defined benefit plan applies. The investment objectives of some defined benefit plans are more conservative than the
others. In general, the investment strategy of the defined benefit plans is to balance the requirement to generate return using higher-returning assets such as equity securities, with the need to control risk with less volatile assets, such as fixed
income securities. Risks include, among others, the likelihood of the defined benefit plans becoming underfunded, thereby increasing their dependence on contributions from the Company. Within each asset class, consideration is given by investment
managers to balance the portfolio among industry sectors, geographies, interest rate sensitivity, dependence on economic growth, currency and other factors that affect investment returns.      The Company contributes to post-retirement benefit plans on a cash basis as benefits are paid. No assets have been segregated and restricted to provide postretirement benefits.         
   97   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
     Medicare Prescription Drug Act        In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act (the  Prescription Drug Act ) was signed into law. The Prescription Drug Act introduced a prescription drug benefit under
Medicare (Medicare Part D) as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree healthcare benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. The Company was impacted by the Prescription Drug Act since it
sponsors postretirement benefit plans that provide prescription drug benefits. The Company enrolled all Medicare eligible retirees in fiscal year 2006 in either Medicare Advantage plans or in health plans where prescription drug benefits are
supplied via fully insured Prescription Drug Plans. The impact of the Prescription Drug Act on the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was immaterial.        Estimated Contributions and Future Benefit Payments        The Company made contributions of $8.1 million to the defined benefit plans
during fiscal year 2006. This amount is greater than the contributions of $4.0 million made for fiscal year 2005 due primarily to a discretionary employer contribution of $3.5 million made to improve the funding level of the pension plan in the
United Kingdom during fiscal year 2006. The Company made contributions of $0.6 million to the post-retirement benefit plans for the fiscal year 2006. The Company expects total contribution to the defined benefit plans and the post-retirement
benefit plans for fiscal year 2007 to be approximately $4.7 million and approximately $0.5 million, respectively.      Estimated future benefit payments at
September 29, 2006 are as follows:       
     10. STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY         Stockholder Rights Plan        The VMS s Board of Director has adopted a stockholder rights plan. Under the
plan, a dividend distribution of one preferred stock purchase right (a  Right ) for each outstanding share of common stock was made to stockholders of record on December 4, 1998 and one Right issued in connection with each share of
VMS s common stock issued thereafter. The Rights will be exercisable only if a person or group acquires 15% or more of the Company s common stock (an  Acquiring Person ) or announces a tender offer for 15% or more of the common
stock. Each Right entitles stockholders to buy one one-thousandth of a share of VMS s Participating Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share, at an exercise price of $105 per Right, subject to adjustment from time to time. However, if any
person becomes an Acquiring Person, each Right will then entitle its holder (other than the Acquiring Person)  
       
   98   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 to purchase at the exercise price VMS s common stock (or, in certain circumstances, VMS s Participating Preferred Stock) having a market value at
that time of twice the Right s exercise price. The Rights would also entitle holders (other than the Acquiring Person) to purchase at the exercise price common stock of the Acquiring Person having a market value at that time of twice the
Right s exercise price if the Acquiring Person were to control VMS s Board of Directors and cause VMS to enter into certain mergers or other transactions. In addition, if an Acquiring Person acquired between 15% and 50% of VMS s
voting stock, VMS s Board of Directors may, at its option, exchange one share of VMS s common stock for each Right held (other than Rights held by the Acquiring Person). The Rights will expire on December 4, 2008, unless earlier
redeemed by the Board of Directors at $0.001 per Right.        Stock Repurchase Program        On November 12, 2003, VMS s Board of Directors authorized a repurchase of up to three million shares (on a pre-July 30, 2004 stock split basis) of its
common stock over the period through August 31, 2005. On November 19, 2004, VMS s Board of Directors authorized an additional repurchase by VMS of up to six million shares of its common stock over the period through December 31,
2005. On November 21, 2005, VMS s Board of Directors authorized a repurchase of up to an additional six million shares of its common stock over the period through December 31, 2006. VMS paid $271 million in fiscal year 2006 to
repurchase 5,395,100 shares of its common stock, $227 million in fiscal year 2005 to repurchase 5,960,000 shares of its common stock and $202 million in fiscal year 2004 to repurchase 5,576,000 shares of its common stock. All shares that have been
repurchased have been retired. As of September 29, 2006, 1,500,000 shares of the Company s common stock remained available for repurchase under the November 21, 2005 authorization.        Stock Split        On June 14, 2004, VMS s Board of
Directors declared a two-for-one stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend. The distribution of the shares was made on July 30, 2004 to stockholders of record as of June 30, 2004. Unless otherwise stated, all references in the
consolidated financial statements to the number of shares and per share amounts of VMS s common stock for the periods prior to July 30, 2004 have been retroactively restated to reflect the increased number of shares resulting from the
two-for-one stock split.       11. EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS         Employee Stock Plans        During fiscal year 1991, VMS adopted the stockholder-approved Omnibus Stock Plan (the  Omnibus
Plan ) under which shares of common stock could be issued to officers, directors, key employees and consultants. The Omnibus Plan was amended and restated as of the spin-offs. The maximum number of shares that could have been issued was limited
to twenty million shares. Stock options granted under the Omnibus Plan have an exercise price equal to the closing market price of the underlying stock on the grant date (unless the stock market was closed on the grant date, in which case the
exercise price was equal to the average of the highest and lowest quoted selling prices on the stock market on the day before and the day after the grant date) and expire no later than ten years from the grant date. Options granted under the Omnibus
Plan before November 2000 were generally exercisable in cumulative installments of one-third each year, commencing one year following date of grant. Options granted after November 2000 were exercisable in the following manner: the first
one-third one year from the date of  
       
   99   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 grant, with the remainder vesting monthly during the following two-year period. No further awards may be made under the Omnibus Plan.      In November 2000, VMS adopted the 2000 Stock Option Plan (the  2000 Plan ), which was intended to supplement the Omnibus Plan. The maximum number of shares that
could have been issued was limited to twelve million shares. The 2000 Plan is similar to the Omnibus Plan in all material respects, with the exception that shares available for awards under the 2000 Plan could not be issued to directors or officers
of VMS. Stock options granted under the 2000 Plan are exercisable for the first one-third of the option shares one year from the date of grant, with the remainder vesting monthly during the following two-year period. Other terms of the 2000 Plan
mirror the Omnibus Plan. No further awards may be made under the 2000 Plan.      In February 2005, VMS s stockholders approved the 2005 Omnibus Stock Plan
(the  2005 Plan ), which provides for the grant of equity incentive awards, including stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, performance units, restricted stock units and performance shares of up to (a) four
million shares, plus (b) the number of shares authorized for issuance, but never issued, under the Omnibus Plan and the 2000 Plan, plus (c) the number of shares subject to awards previously granted under the Omnibus Plan and 2000 Plan that
terminate, expire, or lapse and (d) amounts granted in substitution of options in connection with certain transactions. For purposes of the total number of shares available for grant under the 2005 Plan, any shares that are subject to awards of
stock options or stock appreciation rights shall be counted against the available-for-grant limit as one share for every one share issued, and any shares issued in connection with awards other than stock options and stock appreciation rights shall
be counted against the available-for-grant limit as three shares for every one share issued. All awards may be subject to restrictions on transferability and continued employment as determined by the Compensation and Management Development
Committee. As of the stockholders  approval, awards could no longer be made under the Omnibus Plan or the 2000 Plan.      In November 2005, the
Company s Board of Directors approved changes in the employee service requirement for grants of non-qualified stock options made on or after November 17, 2005 under the 2005 Plan to employees who are eligible for retirement at the time of
grant from the Company. Under the new requirements, if an employee retires within one year of the grant date, the number of shares subject to the stock option shall be reduced proportionally by the time during such one-year period that the employee
ceased to be an employee of the Company (based upon a 365 day year). The revised number of shares subject to the stock option would continue to vest in accordance with the original vesting schedule, and the remaining shares cancelled as of the date
of retirement. Under the old requirements, if an employee retired within one year of the grant date, all shares subject to the option grant would continue to vest in accordance with the original vesting schedule.      In February 2006, VMS s stockholders approved the Amended and Restated 2005 Omnibus Stock Plan (the  Amended 2005 Plan ), which modified the 2005 Plan to
permit the grant of deferred stock units to non-employee directors. Each deferred stock unit is deemed to be the equivalent of one share of VMS s common stock. Deferred stock units will vest over a period of not less than one year from the date
of grant, unless otherwise provided in the grant agreement as determined by VMS s Board of Directors, and vesting may be pro rata during the vesting period. Payment of deferred stock units generally will be made in shares of VMS s common
stock upon the earlier of the third anniversary of the grant date or the director s termination.      Effective October 1, 2005, the Company adopted
SFAS 123(R), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to the Company s  
       
   100   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 employees and directors including stock options and employee stock purchases under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, deferred stock units and restricted
stock based on fair values. The Company s financial statements for the year ended September 29, 2006 reflect the impact of SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method. In accordance with the modified prospective transition
method, the Company s financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS 123(R). Share-based compensation expense is based on the value of the portion of share-based payment awards
that is ultimately expected to vest. Share-based compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the year ended September 29, 2006 included compensation expense for share-based payment awards granted prior to, but
not yet vested as of, September 30, 2005 based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions of SFAS 123, and compensation expense for the share-based payment awards granted subsequent to September 30,
2005 based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). In conjunction with the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company elected to attribute the value of share-based compensation to expense using the
straight-line method, which was previously used for its pro forma information required under SFAS 123. For the year ended September 29, 2006, total share-based compensation expense, before taxes on earnings, was $40.8 million. There
was no share-based compensation expense related to stock options and employee stock purchases recognized under the intrinsic value method of APB 25 for fiscal years 2005 and 2004. For fiscal years 2005 and 2004, share-based compensation expense
related to restricted stock, before taxes on earnings, was $1.1 million and $1.2 million, respectively, which was recorded under APB 25.      Upon adoption of
SFAS 123(R), the Company elected to value its share-based payment awards granted beginning in fiscal year 2006 using the Black-Scholes model, which was previously used for its pro forma information required under SFAS 123 for fiscal years 2005 and
2004. The Black-Scholes model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. The Black-Scholes model requires the input of certain assumptions. VMS s stock
options and the option component of the Employee Stock Purchase Plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and changes in the assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimates.      The fair value of options granted and the option component of the Employee Stock Purchase Plan shares were estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model
with the following weighted average assumptions:       
    The expected term of stock options represents the weighted average period the stock options are expected to remain
outstanding. The expected term is based on the observed and expected time to post-vesting exercise and forfeitures of option by employees. Upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company determined the expected term of stock options based on the
demographic grouping of employees and retirement eligibility. Prior to October 1, 2005, the Company determined the expected term of stock options based on the demographic grouping of employees. Upon the adoption of  
       
   101   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 SFAS 123(R), the Company used a combination of historical and implied volatility ( blended volatility ) in deriving its expected volatility
assumption as allowed under SFAS 123(R) and SAB 107. Implied volatility was derived based on six-month traded options on VMS s common stock. Prior to October 1, 2005, the Company used its historical stock price volatility in
accordance with SFAS 123 for purposes of its pro forma information. The selection of the blended volatility approach was based upon the availability of traded options on VMS s stock and the Company s assessment that blended volatility is
more representative of future stock price trends than just historical volatility alone. The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the expected term of VMS s stock options. The expected dividend
assumption is based on the Company s history and expectation of dividend payouts.      As share-based compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated
Statements of Earnings for the year ended September 29, 2006 is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. SFAS 123(R) requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if
necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures were estimated based on historical experience. For the year ended September 29, 2006, the Company adjusted share-based compensation expense based on
its actual forfeitures. In the Company s pro forma information required under SFAS 123 for the periods prior to October 1, 2005, the Company accounted for forfeitures as they occurred.      The table below summarizes the effect of recording share-based compensation expense under SFAS 123(R) for the year ended September 29, 2006 which is allocated
as follows:       
    During the year ended September 29, 2006, total share-based compensation expense recognized in earnings before
taxes was $40.8 million and the total related recognized tax benefit was $13.9 million. During the years ended September 30, 2005 and October 1, 2004, total share-based compensation expense recognized in earnings before taxes was $1.1
million and $1.2 million, respectively, and the total related recognized tax benefit was $0.4 million for each of those years. Total share-based compensation expense capitalized as part of inventory for the year ended September 29, 2006 was
$2.3 million.         
   102   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   Activity under the Omnibus Plan, the 2000 Plan, the 2005 Plan and the Amended 2005 Plan (together, the  Employee
Stock Plans ) is presented below:       

(1)  
  During fiscal year 2005, VMS granted to a senior executive 44,368 shares of restricted common stock under the Omnibus Plan and to an employee 1,000 shares of restricted common stock
under the 2005 Plan. During fiscal year 2006, VMS issued 201,701 shares (net of 161,931 shares withheld for employees  taxes) under the Omnibus Plan and the 2000 Plan pursuant to restricted performance shares awarded to several senior
executives in fiscal year 2001 which vested in November 2005. VMS also granted to certain employees an aggregate of 6,500 shares of restricted common stock under the 2005 Plan and the Amended 2005 Plan. In addition, VMS awarded to its directors an
aggregate of 16,000 deferred stock units under the Amended 2005 Plan. Restricted common stock, restricted performance shares and deferred stock units awarded under the 2005 Plan and the Amended 2005 Plan are deducted from shares available for grant
in a one to three ratio.         

(2)  
  During fiscal year 2004, VMS excluded from shares available for grant 6,000 shares of cancelled or expired options that were granted before the Spin-offs under VMS s previous,
now inactive, stock option plans. During fiscal year 2005, there were no canceled or expired options that were granted before the Spin-offs. During fiscal year 2006, VMS excluded from shares available for grant 11,360 shares of expired options that
were granted before the spin-offs of VI and VSEA under VMS s previous, now inactive, stock option plans. In addition, during fiscal year 2006, VMS cancelled 1,000 shares of restricted common stock that had been previously granted to an
employee.           
   103   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   For the year ended September 29, 2006, the total pre-tax intrinsic value of options exercised was $137 million.
The following table summarizes information related to options outstanding and exercisable under the Employee Stock Plans at September 29, 2006:       

(1)  
  The aggregate intrinsic value represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value, based on VMS s closing stock price of $53.39 as of September 29, 2006, which would have been
received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options as of that date.        SFAS 123(R) requires the Company to present
pro forma information for the comparative period prior to the adoption as if it had accounted for all of its stock options under the fair value method of SFAS 123.      The following table illustrates the pro forma information regarding the effect on net earnings and net earnings per share if the Company had accounted for the share-based employee compensation under the fair value method of accounting:

104   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   As of September 29, 2006, there was $33.6 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to stock
options granted under the Employee Stock Plans. This unrecognized compensation expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.7 years.      The activity for restricted stock, restricted performance shares and deferred stock units is summarized as follows:       
    During fiscal year 2001, VMS granted to several of its senior executives 363,632 restricted performance shares
under the Omnibus Plan, which vested in November 2005. During fiscal year 2005, VMS granted to another senior executive and an employee 44,368 shares and 1,000 shares, respectively, of restricted common stock under the Omnibus Plan and the 2005
Plan, respectively. The restricted common stock granted to the senior executive in fiscal year 2005 vests in cumulative installments of one-third every five years. The restricted common stock granted to the employee in fiscal year 2005 was cancelled
in fiscal year 2006. In the event that VMS terminates the executive s service prior to the end of the vesting period or the executive retires more than three years prior to the date such vesting occurs, any unvested restricted common stock is
forfeited.      In fiscal year 2006, the Company awarded 6,500 shares of restricted stock to several employees and 16,000 deferred stock units to its
non-employee directors. The restricted common stocks granted to employees in fiscal year 2006 vest semi-annually or annually over periods of up to three years. The deferred stock units vest over a period of one year and the shares will be delivered
to each director on the earlier of three years after the grant date or upon departure from the Board of Directors.      Stock compensation for restricted common
stock and deferred stock units is measured at the stock s fair value on the date of grant and is amortized over their respective vesting periods. For fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, VMS recognized total stock based compensation expense
related to restricted stock and restricted performance shares of $0.3 million, $1.1 million, and $1.2 million respectively in  Selling, general and administrative expenses  in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings.      In addition, the Company recognized $0.6 million of compensation expense related to deferred stock units in fiscal year 2006 and did not recognize any compensation
expense related deferred stock units in fiscal years 2005 and 2004.      As of September 29, 2006, unrecognized compensation expense totaling $2.7 million
was related to restricted stock and deferred stock units granted under the Employee Stock Plans. This unrecognized compensation expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 8.3 years. The 364,632 shares that vested during
the year ended September 29, 2006 were restricted performance shares and restricted stock, and the total fair value of these shares upon vesting was $18 million. The Company withheld 162,288 shares (fair value of approximately $8 million) for
employees  minimum withholding taxes at vesting.         
   105   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
     Employee Stock Purchase Plan        VMS has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  ESPP ), under which eight million shares of common stock can be issued to substantially all employees in the United States. The participants  purchase price
for VMS common stock under the ESPP is the lower of 85% of the closing market price on the first trading day of each six-month period in the fiscal year or the last trading day of the same six-month period. VMS issued approximately 245,000 shares
for $9.6 million in fiscal year 2006, 290,000 shares for $8.2 million in fiscal year 2005 and 270,000 shares for $7.2 million in fiscal year 2004 under the ESPP. At September 29, 2006, 5,040,746 shares were available for issuance under the
ESPP.       12. TAXES ON EARNINGS       The Company accounts for
income taxes using SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes  ( SFAS 109 ) .  SFAS 109 provides for an asset and liability approach under which deferred income taxes are based upon enacted tax laws and rates applicable
to the periods in which the taxes become payable.      Taxes on earnings from continuing operations were as follows:       
    Earnings from continuing operations before taxes are generated from the following geographic areas:       
       
   106   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   The effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate as a result of the following:       
    The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the  Jobs Creation Act ) introduced a special one-time dividends
received deduction on the repatriation of foreign earnings. In fiscal year 2006, the Company repatriated approximately $128 million in foreign earnings pursuant to the Jobs Creation Act. The Company had previously recorded a deferred tax
liability of approximately $16.6 million for taxes for the eventual repatriation of a portion of the Company s foreign earnings. Under the Jobs Creation Act, the Company s tax liability for repatriation of the approximately $128
million in foreign earnings is estimated to be $4.6 million. Therefore, we recorded a net tax benefit of approximately $12 million in fiscal year 2006.     In fiscal year 2006, the Company recorded a net deferred tax benefit of $7.2 million related to adjustments of certain prior years  state and federal temporary differences. After conducting a thorough assessment on the materiality of
these adjustments, management believes that such adjustments are not material to its fiscal year 2006 or previously reported financial statements.      In
addition, a tax benefit of approximately $3 million was recorded in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006 as a result of the reduction of reserves for potential tax contingencies due to the lapse of the statute of limitations in certain domestic
jurisdictions.         
   107   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:       
    The Company has not provided for U.S. federal income and foreign withholding taxes on $303.6 million of
cumulative undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries. Such earnings are intended to be reinvested in the non-U.S. subsidiaries for an indefinite period of time. If such earnings were not considered to be reinvested indefinitely, additional
deferred taxes of $45.6 million would be provided. Where excess cash has accumulated in the Company s non-U.S. subsidiaries and it is advantageous for tax or foreign exchange reasons, subsidiary earnings are remitted.      The Company has federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $2.6 million expiring in 2020 and state net operating loss carryforwards of $37.8 million
expiring between 2009 and 2024. SFAS 109 requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that  
       
   108   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The valuation allowance relates to net operating loss carryforwards for which the Company
believes realization is uncertain. The valuation allowance increased $0.9 million in fiscal 2006. The total valuation allowance of $1.6 million is attributable to the tax benefit of stock option deductions, which, if recognized, would be
allocated directly to paid-in-capital.      Income taxes paid were as follows:       

     13. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS       On January 17, 2005, the Company acquired a 100% ownership interest in Sigma Micro, a privately held supplier of information management software for radiation oncology and medical oncology in cancer clinics and
hospitals in France, for approximately $13.6 million in cash. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the acquisition was not material to the consolidated financial statements. In connection with this acquisition, $10.8
million was allocated to goodwill, $3.8 million was allocated to identifiable intangible assets, $0.2 million was allocated to in-process research and development expense (included in  Selling, general and administrative  expenses in the
Consolidated Statement of Earnings) and ($1.2) million, net, was allocated to assets and liabilities.      During fiscal year 2004, the Company acquired the
assets and liabilities of three businesses. The consolidated financial statements include the operating results of each acquired business from the date of acquisition. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because none of these
acquisitions was material to the consolidated financial statements.      Summary of purchase transactions in fiscal year 2004:       
    The Company s methodology for allocating the purchase price to these acquisitions was determined using
commonly accepted valuation techniques in the high-technology industry. The valuation method used by the Company included the income approach which established the fair value of the assets based on the value of the cash flows that the assets can be
expected to generate in the future using the discounted cash flow method. The purchase price of each acquisition was allocated to the acquired assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair values as of the date of acquisition, including
identifiable intangible assets, with the remaining amount being classified as goodwill. In connection with these acquisitions, $50.6 million was allocated to goodwill, $21.5 million was allocated to intangible assets and $(1.5) million was
allocated to tangible net assets.         
   109   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
    14. SEGMENT INFORMATION         Description of Segments        The Company s operations are grouped into two reportable operating segments: Oncology Systems and X-ray
Products. These reportable operating segments were determined based on how the Company s Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Operating Decision Maker ( CODM ), views and evaluates the Company s operations. Beginning on
October 1, 2005, the Company moved the BrachyTherapy business from the  Other  category to the Oncology Systems business segment as the CODM has begun to evaluate the BrachyTherapy business as part of the Oncology Systems business
segment due to the natural synergies in the area of radiation oncology. At the same time, the Company moved the Security and Inspection Products business ( SIP ) from the Oncology Systems business segment into the  Other 
category. The Company s Ginzton Technology Center ( GTC ) and SIP are reflected in the  Other  category because neither GTC nor SIP meets the criteria of a reportable operating segment as defined under SFAS No. 131,
 Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information  ( SFAS 131 ). All prior period amounts have been adjusted retrospectively to reflect the new segments. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial
performance of each operating segment primarily based on operating earnings.      The Oncology Systems business segment designs, manufactures, sells and
services hardware and software products for treating cancer with radiation, including linear accelerators, treatment simulation and verification products, information management and treatment planning software, advanced brachytherapy products and
software and other sophisticated accessory products and services. These products enable radiation oncology departments in hospitals and clinics to perform conventional radiotherapy treatments and offer the advanced treatment processes of intensity
modulated radiation therapy ( IMRT ), and image guided radiation therapy ( IGRT ), as well as treat patients using brachytherapy techniques which involve radiation treatment of tumors with implanted radioactive sources. Oncology
Systems  customers include comprehensive cancer treatment clinics, university research and community hospitals, private and governmental institutions, healthcare agencies, doctors  offices and cancer care clinics worldwide.      The X-ray Products business segment manufactures and sells X-ray imaging components and subsystems, namely (i) X-ray tubes for use in a range of applications
including computed tomography, or CT, scanning, radioscopic/fluoroscopic imaging, mammography, special procedures and industrial applications and (ii) flat panel imaging products (also commonly referred to as flat panel detectors) for digital
X-ray image capture, which is an alternative to image intensifier tubes for fluoroscopy and X-ray film for radiography. X-ray tubes and flat panel detectors are sold to large imaging systems original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, that
incorporate these X-ray imaging components and subsystems into their medical diagnostic imaging systems and industrial imaging systems. X-ray tubes are also sold directly to end-users for replacement purposes. Flat panel detectors are also being
incorporated into next generation imaging equipment, including equipment for IGRT such as the On-Board Imager product ( OBI ), and for dental CT scanning and veterinary X-rays imaging.      We have two other businesses that we report together. The Security and Inspection Products ( SIP ) business designs, manufactures, sells and services
Linatron          X-ray accelerators for security and
inspection purposes, such as cargo screening, border protection and nondestructive examination for a variety of applications in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries as well as government and military
inspection applications. SIP has also developed a new type of dual energy accelerator, the Linatron K9, which can aid in automatically detecting and alerting  
       
   110   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 operators when high-density nuclear materials associated with dirty bombs or weapons of mass destruction are present during cargo screening and non-intrusive
inspection of cargo containers. We generally sell our Linatron X-ray accelerators to original equipment manufacturers who incorporate our accelerators into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs agencies and other government
agencies, as well as to commercial private parties.      Through the Ginzton Technology Center ( GTC ), the Company is developing technologies that
enhance its current businesses or may lead to new business areas, including next generation digital X-ray imaging technology, volumetric and functional imaging, improved X-ray sources and technology for security and cargo screening applications. In
addition, the Company is developing technologies and products that promise to improve disease management by more precise targeting of radiation, as well as by employing targeted energy and molecular agents to enhance the effectiveness and broaden
the application of radiation therapy.      Corporate includes shared costs of legal, tax, accounting, human resources, real estate, insurance, information
technology, treasury, finance and other management costs. A portion of the indirect and common costs has been allocated through the use of estimates. Accordingly, the following information is provided for purposes of achieving an understanding of
operations, but may not be indicative of the financial results of the reported segments were they independent organizations. In addition, comparisons of the Company s operations to similar operations of other companies may not be meaningful.
       Segment Data         
       
   111   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          

    The reconciliation of segment operating results information to the Company s earnings from operations before
taxes was as follows:       
      Geographic Information         
    The Company operates various manufacturing and marketing operations outside the United States. Allocation between
domestic and foreign revenues is based on final destination of products sold. No single foreign country represented 10% or more of the Company s total revenues for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004. Revenues between geographic areas are
accounted for at cost plus prevailing markups arrived at through negotiations between profit centers. Intercompany and intracompany profits are eliminated in consolidation.       15. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS       In fiscal year 1995, Varian Associates, Inc. completed the sale of its Electron Devices
business segment. The transaction was accounted for as discontinued operations. In fiscal year 2006, the Company recognized a pre-tax gain from discontinued operations of $2.5 million and a related tax expense of $1.0 million. The net gain of $1.5
million resulted from the release of a reserve for certain contingencies associated with the Electron Devices business segment. As of September 29, 2006, the Company does not have any asset or liability related to discontinued operations.
        
   112   

Table of Contents  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
    16. SUBSEQUENT EVENT       On November 20, 2006, VMS announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase by VMS of up to an additional 4.5 million shares of its common stock over the period prior to September 28, 2007. The Company
expects repurchases will be made in accordance with Rule 10b-18 and may include a plan designed to satisfy the Rule 10b5-1 safe harbor. Shares will be retired upon repurchase.       17. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)        
     
    In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company recorded a net deferred tax benefit of $7.2 million related
to adjustments of certain prior years  state and federal temporary differences. After conducting a thorough assessment on the materiality of these adjustments, management believes that such adjustments are not material to its fiscal year 2006
or previously reported financial statements.      The four quarters for net earnings per share may not add to the total year because of differences in the
weighted average number of shares outstanding during the quarters and the year.         
   113   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING       Management of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the  Company ) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. Internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material
effect on the consolidated financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions and that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.      Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of September 29,
2006. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on its assessment and those criteria,
management concluded that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 29, 2006. Management s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as
of September 29, 2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as indicated in their report which appears immediately after this report.         
   114   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of      Varian Medical Systems, Inc.:
     We have completed an integrated audit of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. s (the  Company ) 2006 and 2005 consolidated financial statements and
of its internal control over financial reporting as of September 29, 2006 and an audit of its 2004 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our
opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.        Consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule        In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries at September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
September 29, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed
the manner in which it accounts for share-based compensation for the year ended September 29, 2006.        Internal control over financial reporting
       Also, in our opinion, management s assessment, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting,
that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 29, 2006 based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
September 29, 2006 based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the COSO. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for
its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management s assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.         
   115   

Table of Contents  

   A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations
of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
      / S / P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS  LLP       San Jose, California      December 11, 2006         
   116   

Table of Contents  

Item 9.   
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure         None.       

Item 9A.   
   Controls and Procedures          

(a)  
   Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.     Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in the
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )) required by Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(b) or 15d-15(b), our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have
concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and include controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in such
reports is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.         

(b)  
   Report of management on internal control over financial reporting.     The information required to be furnished pursuant to this item is set forth under
the caption  Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  on page 114 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.         

(c)  
   Changes in internal control over financial reporting .    There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during our
fourth fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.         

(d)  
   Certificates.     Certificates with respect to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting under Rule 13a-14(a) of the
Exchange Act are attached as exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.         

Item 9B.   
   Other Information         None.         
   117   

Table of Contents  

PART III        
  Item 10.    Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant       The information required by this item
with respect to our executive officers is set forth in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The information required by this item with respect to our directors, our Audit Committee and audit committee financial expert is incorporated by
reference from our definitive proxy statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the captions  Proposal One Election of Directors.  The information required by this item with respect to compliance with
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption  Stock Ownership Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance.       We have adopted a Code of Business Ethics that applies to all of our executive officers and directors. The Code of Business Ethics is
posted on our website. The Internet address for our website is  http://www.varian.com , and the Code of Business Ethics may be found as follows:       

1.  
  From our main web page, first click  Investor Relations  under  About Varian.          

2.  
  Next click on  Corporate Governance  in the right hand navigation bar.         

3.  
  Finally, click on  Code of Ethics.         Additionally, copies of our
Code of Business Ethics may also be obtained without charge by sending a written request to our Secretary at our executive offices.      We intend to satisfy
the disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of this Code that applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller
or persons performing similar functions by posting such information on our website, at the address and location specified above.      Furthermore, since our
common stock is listed on the NYSE, our Chief Executive Officer is required to make, and he has made as of March 14, 2006, an Annual Certification to the NYSE in accordance with Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual stating that
he was not aware of any violations by us of the NYSE corporate governance listing standards.       
  Item 11.    Executive Compensation       The information required by this item is incorporated by reference
from our definitive proxy statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption  Compensation of Directors and the Named Executive Officers.          
   118   

Table of Contents  

Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters        Equity Compensation Plan Information       The following table provides information as of September 29, 2006 with respect to the shares of
the Company s common stock that may be issued under the Company s existing equity compensation plans.       

(1)  
  Consists of awards granted under the Omnibus Stock Plan and the Amended and Restated 2005 Omnibus Stock Plan. Effective February 17, 2005, no further grants can be made from
the Omnibus Stock Plan.         

(2)  
  Includes 5,040,746 shares available for future issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan.         
    The 2000 Stock Option Plan was intended to supplement the Omnibus Stock Plan. The 2000 Stock Option Plan is similar to the Omnibus Stock Plan in all material respects,
with the exception that awards under the 2000 Stock Option Plan could not be made to directors or officers of the Company. For a description of the material features of the Omnibus Stock Plan and the 2000 Stock Option Plan, see Note 11  Omnibus
Stock and Employee Stock Purchase Plans  of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The 2005 Omnibus Stock Plan, which was approved by the Company s stockholders on February 17, 2005 and subsequently amended and restated
with approval from the Company s stockholders on February 16, 2006 (thereafter known as the  Amended and Restated 2005 Omnibus Stock Plan ), replaced the 2000 Stock Option Plan and the Omnibus Stock Plan and, concurrent with the
approval of the 2005 Omnibus Stock Plan, no further grants can be made from the 2000 Stock Option Plan or the Omnibus Stock Plan.      The information required
by this item with respect to the security ownership of certain beneficial owners and the security ownership of management is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption
 Stock Ownership Beneficial Ownership of Certain Stockholders, Directors and Executive Officers.        
  Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions       The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption  Compensation of Directors and the Named Executive Officers.        
  Item 14.    Principal Accountant Fees and Services       The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption  Ratification of the Appointment of Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.          
   119   

Table of Contents  

PART IV        
  Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules        

(a)  
  The following documents are filed as part of this report:         

(1)  
  Consolidated Financial Statements:         

Consolidated Statements of Earnings         

Consolidated Balance Sheets         

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows         

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity and Comprehensive Earnings         

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements         

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm         

(2)  
  Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule:        The following financial
statement schedule of the Registrant and its subsidiaries for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 is filed as a part of this report and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Registrant and its subsidiaries.

Schedule   

II  
      
  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts   
    All other schedules are omitted because of the absence of conditions under which they are required or because the
required information is given in the financial statements or the notes thereto.       

Exhibit Number   
      
     Description     
 
    2  
      
  Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement, dated as of January 14, 1999, by and among Varian Associates, Inc. (which has been renamed Varian Medical Systems, Inc.), Varian, Inc. and
Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 2 to the Registrant s Form 8-K Current Report dated as of April 2, 1999, File No. 1-7598).   
 
    3.1  
      
  Registrant s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 3.1 to the Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter
ended July 2, 2004, File No. 1-7598).   
 
    3.2  
      
  Registrant s By-Laws, as amended, effective November 17, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 23,
2005).   
 
    4.1  
      
  Specimen Common Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 4.1 to the Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended April 2, 1999, File
No. 1-7598).   
       
   120   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit Number   
      
     Description     

4.2  
      
  Rights Agreement dated as of November 20, 1998 between the Registrant and First Chicago Trust Company of New York, as Rights Agent, including the Form of Rights Certificate (together with
Election to Exercise) attached thereto as Exhibit A, the form of Certificate of Designation and Terms of Participating Preferred Stock of the Registrant attached thereto as Exhibit B (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 1 to the
Registrant s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed on November 23, 1998 with respect to the NYSE, File No. 1-7598), the First Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of April 1, 1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 2 to the
Registrant s Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A filed on April 1, 1999 with respect to the NYSE, File No. 1-7598), the Second Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of August 17, 2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
No. 3 to the Registrant s Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A-2 filed on November 6, 2001 with respect to the NYSE, File No. 1-7598), the Third Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of November 16, 2001 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit No. 4 to the Registrant s Amendment No. 3 to Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A-3 filed on January 4, 2002 with respect to the NYSE, File No. 1-7598), the Fourth Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of January 15, 2002
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 5 to the Registrant s Amendment No. 4 to Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A-4 filed on January 22, 2002 with respect to the NYSE, File No. 1-7598) and the Fifth Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as
of July 30, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 6 to the Registrant s Amendment No. 5 to Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A-5 filed on July 30, 2004 with respect to the NYSE, File No. 1-7598).   
 
  10.1   
      
  Registrant s Amended and Restated Omnibus Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.1 to the Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended July 2,
2004, File No. 1-7598).   
 
  10.2   
      
  Registrant s Management Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.2 to the Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended April 2, 1999, File
No. 1-7598).   
 
  10.3   
      
  Form of Registrant s Indemnity Agreement with the directors and executive officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.3 to the Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
quarter ended April 2, 1999, File No. 1-7598).   
 
  10.4   
      
  Form of Registrant s Change in Control Agreement for Chief Executive Officer.   
 
  10.5   
      
  Form of Registrant s Change in Control Agreement for Senior Executives (Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel).   
 
  10.6   
      
  Form of Registrant s Change in Control Agreement for Senior Executives (other than the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, and the General Counsel).   
 
  10.7   
      
  Form of Registrant s Change in Control Agreement for Key Employees.   
 
  10.8  
      
  Amended and Restated Note Purchase and Private Shelf Agreement, dated as of April 2, 1999, between the Registrant and Prudential Insurance Company of America (certain exhibits and schedules
omitted) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.7 to the Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended April 2, 1999, File No. 1-7598).   
 
  10.9  
      
  Employee Benefits Allocation Agreement, dated April 2, 1999, by and among Varian Associates, Inc. (which has been renamed Varian Medical Systems, Inc.), Varian, Inc. and Varian
Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 99.1 to the Registrant s Form 8-K Current Report dated as of April 2, 1999, File No. 1-7598).   
       
   121   

Table of Contents  

122   

Table of Contents  

Management contract or compensatory arrangement.           
   123   

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.      Dated: December 11, 2006        

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:   
     
   / S /    E LISHA  W. F INNEY             

Elisha W. Finney  Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer    
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Capacity    
     
     Date     

/ S /  T IMOTHY  E.
G UERTIN            Timothy E. Guertin    
      
    President and Chief Executive Officer and Director      (Principal Executive Officer)    
     
  December 11, 2006   

/ S /  E LISHA  W.
F INNEY            Elisha W. Finney    
      
    Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer         (Principal Financial Officer)    
     
  December 11, 2006   

/ S /  T AI -Y UN 
C HEN            Tai-Yun Chen    
      
    Corporate Vice President and Corporate Controller      (Principal Accounting Officer)    
     
  December 11, 2006   

/ S /  R ICHARD  M. L EVY        
   Richard M. Levy    
      
  Chairman of the Board  
     
  December 11, 2006   

/ S /  S USAN  L.
B OSTROM            Susan L. Bostrom    
      
  Director  
     
  December 11, 2006   

/ S /  J OHN  S EELY 
B ROWN            John Seely Brown    
      
  Director  
     
  December 11, 2006   

/ S /  R. A NDREW 
E CKERT            R. Andrew Eckert    
      
  Director  
     
  December 11, 2006   

/ S /  S AMUEL  H ELLMAN        
   Samuel Hellman    
      
  Director  
     
  December 11, 2006   

/ S /  A LLEN  S.
L ICHTER            Allen S. Lichter    
      
  Director  
     
  December 11, 2006   
       
   124   

Table of Contents  

Signature    
      
     Capacity    
     
     Date     

/ S /  D AVID  W. M ARTIN ,
J R .           David W. Martin, Jr.    
      
  Director  
     
  December 11, 2006   

/ S /  R UEDIGER  N AUMANN -E TIENNE            Ruediger Naumann-Etienne    
      
  Director  
     
  December 11, 2006   

/ S /  K ENT  J. T HIRY        
   Kent J. Thiry    
      
  Director  
     
  December 11, 2006   
       
   125   

Table of Contents  

    Schedule II        VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        
       
   126   

Table of Contents  

    EXHIBIT INDEX        

Exhibit Number   
      
     Description     
 
    2  
      
  Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement, dated as of January 14, 1999, by and among Varian Associates, Inc. (which has been renamed Varian Medical Systems, Inc.), Varian, Inc. and
Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 2 to the Registrant s Form 8-K Current Report dated as of April 2, 1999, File No. 1-7598).   
 
    3.1  
      
  Registrant s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 3.1 to the Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter
ended July 2, 2004, File No. 1-7598).   
 
    3.2  
      
  Registrant s By-Laws, as amended, effective November 17, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 23,
2005).   
 
    4.1  
      
  Specimen Common Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 4.1 to the Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended April 2, 1999, File
No. 1-7598).   
 
    4.2  
      
  Rights Agreement dated as of November 20, 1998 between the Registrant and First Chicago Trust Company of New York, as Rights Agent, including the Form of Rights Certificate (together with
Election to Exercise) attached thereto as Exhibit A, the form of Certificate of Designation and Terms of Participating Preferred Stock of the Registrant attached thereto as Exhibit B (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 1 to the
Registrant s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed on November 23, 1998 with respect to the NYSE, File No. 1-7598), the First Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of April 1, 1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 2 to the
Registrant s Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A filed on April 1, 1999 with respect to the NYSE, File No. 1-7598), the Second Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of August 17, 2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
No. 3 to the Registrant s Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A-2 filed on November 6, 2001 with respect to the NYSE, File No. 1-7598), the Third Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of November 16, 2001 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit No. 4 to the Registrant s Amendment No. 3 to Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A-3 filed on January 4, 2002 with respect to the NYSE, File No. 1-7598), the Fourth Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of January 15, 2002
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 5 to the Registrant s Amendment No. 4 to Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A-4 filed on January 22, 2002 with respect to the NYSE, File No. 1-7598) and the Fifth Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as
of July 30, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 6 to the Registrant s Amendment No. 5 to Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A-5 filed on July 30, 2004 with respect to the NYSE, File No. 1-7598).   
 
  10.1   
      
  Registrant s Amended and Restated Omnibus Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.1 to the Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended July 2,
2004, File No. 1-7598).   
 
  10.2   
      
  Registrant s Management Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.2 to the Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended April 2, 1999, File
No. 1-7598).   
 
  10.3   
      
  Form of Registrant s Indemnity Agreement with the directors and executive officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.3 to the Registrant s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
quarter ended April 2, 1999, File No. 1-7598).   
 
  10.4   
      
  Form of Registrant s Change in Control Agreement for Chief Executive Officer.   
 
  10.5   
      
  Form of Registrant s Change in Control Agreement for Senior Executives (Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel).   
 
  10.6   
      
  Form of Registrant s Change in Control Agreement for Senior Executives (other than the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, and the General Counsel).   
       
   127   

Table of Contents  

128   

Table of Contents  

Management contract or compensatory arrangement.           
   129   

<EX-10.4>
 2
 dex104.htm
 FORM OF REGISTRANT'S CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT FOR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Form of Registrant's Change in Control Agreement for Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 10.4         CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT          FOR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER          CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT        THIS CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT ( Agreement ) is entered into effective as of               , by and between VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC., a Delaware corporation
(the  Company )   1   , and               , an
employee of the Company ( Employee ).      The Company s Board of Directors (the  Board ) has determined that it is in
the best interest of the Company and its stockholders for the Company to agree to pay Employee termination compensation in the event Employee should leave the employ of the Company under the circumstances described below. The Board recognizes that
the possibility of a proposal from a third person, whether or not solicited by the Company, concerning a possible  Change in Control  of the Company (as such language is defined in Section 3(d)) will be unsettling to Employee.
Therefore, the arrangements set forth in this Agreement are being made to help assure a continuing dedication by Employee to Employee s duties to the Company notwithstanding the proposal or occurrence of a Change in Control. The Board believes
it imperative, should the Company receive any proposal from a third party, that Employee, without being influenced by the uncertainties of Employee s own situation, be able to assess and advise the Board whether such proposals are in the best
interest of the Company and its stockholders, and to enable Employee to take action regarding such proposals as the Board might determine to be appropriate. The Board also wishes to demonstrate to key personnel that the Company desires to enhance
management relations and its ability to retain and, if needed, to attract new management, and intends to ensure that loyal and dedicated management personnel are treated fairly.      In view of the foregoing, the Company and Employee agree as follows:      1.  EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM OF AGREEMENT .      This Agreement is effective and binding on the Company and
Employee as of the date hereof;  provided, however,  that, subject to Section 2(d), the provisions of Sections 3 and 4 shall become operative only upon the Change in Control Date.        

1     
   Company  shall include the Company, any successor to the Company s business and/or assets, and any party which executes and delivers the agreement
required by Section 6(e) or which otherwise becomes bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement by operation of law or otherwise.           
   1   

2.  EMPLOYMENT OF EMPLOYEE .      (a) Except as provided in Sections 2(b), 2(c) and 2(d), nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right which Employee may otherwise have to terminate Employee s employment, nor shall anything in this Agreement
affect any right which the Company may have to terminate Employee s employment at any time in any lawful manner.      (b) In the event of
a Potential Change in Control, to be eligible to receive the benefits provided by this Agreement, Employee will not voluntarily leave the employ of the Company, and will continue to perform Employee s regular duties and the services specified
in the recitals of this Agreement until the Change in Control Date. Should Employee voluntarily terminate employment prior to the Change in Control Date, this Agreement shall lapse upon such termination and be of no further force or effect.
     (c) If Employee s employment terminates on or after the Change in Control Date as provided under Sections 3 and 4, the Company will
provide to Employee the payments and benefits as provided in Sections 3 and 4.      (d) If Employee s employment is terminated by the
Company without Cause prior to the Change in Control Date but on or after a Potential Change in Control Date, then the Company will provide to Employee the payments and benefits as provided in Sections 3 and 4 unless the Company reasonably
demonstrates that Employee s termination of employment neither (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control nor (ii) arose in connection with or in anticipation of a
Change in Control. Solely for purposes of determining the timing of payments and the provision of benefits in Sections 3 and 4 under the circumstances described in this Section 2(d), Employee s date of termination shall be deemed to be the
Change in Control Date.      3.  TERMINATION FOLLOWING CHANGE IN CONTROL .      (a) If a Change in Control shall have occurred, Employee shall be entitled to the benefits provided in Section 4 upon the subsequent termination of Employee s employment within the applicable period set
forth in Section 4 unless such termination is due to Employee s death, Retirement or Disability or is for Cause or is effected by Employee other than for Good Reason (as such terms are defined in Section 3(d)).      (b) If within eighteen (18) months after a Change in Control, Employee s employment is terminated by reason of Employee s death or
Disability, Employee (or, if applicable, his or her estate) shall be entitled to death or long-term disability benefits from the Company no less favorable than the most favorable benefits to which Employee would have been entitled had the death or
Disability occurred at any time during the period commencing one (1) year prior to the Change in Control.         
   2   

(c) If Employee s employment shall be terminated by the Company for Cause or by Employee other than
for Good Reason during the term of this Agreement, the Company shall pay Employee s base salary through the date of termination at the rate in effect at the time notice of termination is given, and the Company shall have no further obligations
to Employee under this Agreement.      (d) For purposes of this Agreement:       Base Salary  shall mean the annual base salary paid to Employee immediately prior to a Change in Control, provided that such amount shall in no
event be less than the annual base salary paid to Employee during the one (1) year period immediately prior to the Change in Control.      A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if:      (i) Any individual or group constituting a
 person , as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (other than (A) the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (B) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of
the Company or of any of its subsidiaries), is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s outstanding
securities then entitled ordinarily (and apart from rights accruing under special circumstances) to vote for the election of directors; or      (ii) Continuing Directors cease to constitute at least a majority of the Board; or      (iii) there occurs a reorganization, merger,
consolidation or other corporate transaction involving the Company (a  Transaction ), in each case with respect to which the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such Transaction do not, immediately after the Transaction, own
more than 50% of the combined voting power of the Company or other corporation resulting from such Transaction; or      (iv) all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company are sold, liquidated or distributed;       provided, however,  that a  Change in Control  shall
not be deemed to have occurred under this Agreement if, prior to the occurrence of a specified event that would otherwise constitute a Change in Control hereunder, the disinterested Continuing Directors then in office, by a majority vote thereof,
determine that the occurrence of such specified event shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control with respect to Employee hereunder if the Change in Control results from actions or events in which Employee is a participant in a capacity other
than solely as an officer, employee or director of the Company.         
   3   

Change in Control Date  shall mean the date on which a Change in Control occurs.   
   Cause  shall mean:      (i) The
continued willful failure of Employee to perform Employee s duties to the Company (other than any such failure resulting from Employee s incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after written notice thereof (specifying the particulars
thereof in reasonable detail) and a reasonable opportunity to be heard and cure such failure are given to Employee by the Board or a committee thereof; or      (ii) The willful commission by Employee of a wrongful act that caused or was reasonably likely to cause substantial damage to the Company, or an act of fraud in the performance of Employee s duties on behalf of
the Company; or      (iii) The conviction of, or plea of  nolo contendere  by, Employee for commission of a felony in connection with the
performance of Employee s duties on behalf of the Company; or      (iv) The order of a federal or state regulatory authority having
jurisdiction over the Company or its operations or by a court of competent jurisdiction requiring the termination of Employee s employment by the Company.       Continuing Directors  shall mean the directors of the Company in office on the date hereof and any successor to any such director who was nominated or selected by a majority of the Continuing Directors in
office at the time of the director s nomination or selection and who is not an  affiliate  or  associate  (as defined in Regulation 12B under the Exchange Act) of any person who is the beneficial owner, directly or
indirectly, of securities representing ten percent (10%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s outstanding securities then entitled ordinarily to vote for the election of directors.       Disability  shall mean Employee s incapacity due to physical or mental illness such that Employee shall have become qualified to receive
benefits under the Company s long-term disability plan as in effect on the date of the Change in Control.       Dispute  shall
mean, in the case of termination of Employee s employment for Disability or Cause, that Employee challenges the existence of Disability or Cause, and in the case of termination of Employee s employment for Good Reason, that the Company
challenges the existence of Good Reason for termination of Employee s employment.       Exchange Act  means the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.         
   4   

Good Reason  shall mean:      (i) The failure to appoint Employee as Chief Executive Officer of the combined or acquiring entity, reporting to its Board of Directors; or      (ii) A reduction of Employee s total compensation as the same may have been increased from time to time after the Change in Control Date other than
(A) a reduction implemented with the consent of Employee or (B) a reduction that is generally comparable (proportionately) to compensation reductions imposed on senior executives of the Company generally; or      (iii) The failure to provide to Employee the benefits and perquisites, including participation on a comparable basis in the Company s stock option,
incentive, and other similar plans in which employees of the Company of comparable title and salary grade participate, as were provided to Employee immediately prior to a Change in Control, or with a package of benefits and perquisites that are
substantially comparable in all material respects to such benefits and perquisites provided prior to the Change in Control; or      (iv) The
relocation of the office of the Company where Employee is providing Employee s services to the Company immediately prior to the Change in Control Date (the  CIC Location ) to a location which is more than 50 miles away from the CIC
Location or the Company s requiring Employee to be based more than 50 miles away from the CIC Location (except for required travel on the Company s business to an extent substantially consistent with Employee s customary business
travel obligations in the ordinary course of business prior to the Change in Control Date);      (v) The failure of the Company to obtain
promptly upon any Change in Control the express written assumption of an agreement to perform this Agreement by any successor as contemplated in Section 6(e); or      (vi) The attempted termination of Employee s employment for Cause on grounds insufficient to constitute a basis of termination for Cause under this Agreement; or      (vii) The failure of the Company to promptly make any payment into escrow when so required by Section 3(f).      Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, a termination for  Good Reason  shall not occur unless the Employee has provided written notice to
the Company of the Employee s intention to terminate employment and the specific reason(s) for such  Good Reason . Following receipt of such notice, the Company shall have the right, within fifteen (15) days of receiving such
written notice, to cure the circumstances giving rise to such  Good Reason .         
   5   

Potential Change in Control  shall mean the earliest to occur of (a) the execution of an
agreement or letter of intent, the consummation of the transactions described in which would result in a Change in Control, (b) the approval by the Board of a transaction or series of transactions, the consummation of which would result in a
Change in Control, or (c) the public announcement of a tender offer for the Company s voting stock, the completion of which would result in a Change in Control;  provided,  that no such event shall be a  Potential Change in
Control  unless (i) in the case of any agreement or letter of intent described in clause (a), the transaction described therein is subsequently consummated by the Company and the other party or parties to such agreement or letter of intent
and thereupon constitutes a  Change in Control , (ii) in the case of any Board-approved transaction described in clause (b), the transaction so approved is subsequently consummated and thereupon constitutes a  Change in
Control  or (iii) in the case of any tender offer described in clause (c), such tender offer is subsequently completed and such completion thereupon constitutes a  Change in Control .       Potential Change in Control Date  shall mean the date on which a Potential Change in Control occurs.       Retirement  shall mean Employee s actual retirement after reaching the normal or early retirement date provided for in the Company s
Retirement and Profit-Sharing Program as in effect on the date of Employee s termination of employment.      (e) Any termination of
employment by the Company or by Employee shall be communicated by written notice, specify the date of termination, state the specific basis for termination and set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances of the termination in order to
provide a basis for determining the entitlement to any payments under this Agreement.      (f) If within thirty (30) days after notice of
termination is given, the party to whom the notice was given notifies the other party that a Dispute exists, the parties will promptly pursue resolution of such Dispute with reasonable diligence;  provided, however,  that pending resolution of
any such Dispute, the Company shall pay 75% of any amounts which would otherwise be due Employee pursuant to Section 4 if such Dispute did not exist into escrow pending resolution of such Dispute and pay 25% of such amounts to Employee.
Employee agrees to return to the Company any such amounts to which it is ultimately determined that he is not entitled. If, following a final, nonappealable determination that Employee is not entitled to retain all or any portion of this amount,
Employee fails to return such excess amount, then Employee shall be required to pay the full costs of recovering such amount.         
   6   

4.  PAYMENTS AND BENEFITS UPON TERMINATION .      (a) If within eighteen (18) months after a Change in Control, the Company terminates Employee s employment other than by reason of
Employee s death, Disability, Retirement or for Cause, or if Employee terminates Employee s employment for Good Reason, then the Employee shall be entitled to the following payments and benefits:      (i) The Company shall pay to Employee as compensation for services rendered, no later than five (5) business days following the date of termination,
a lump sum severance payment equal to 3.00 multiplied by the sum of: (A) Employee s Base Salary; and (B) the greater of (x) the Employee s most recently established target annual bonus under the Company s Management
Incentive Plan (the  MIP ) and (y) the average annual bonus that was paid to Employee in the three (3) fiscal years ending prior to the date of termination under the MIP. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Employee has not
completed at least three (3) full fiscal years of service with the Company prior to Employee s termination date, then the amount determined in (y) above, shall be based on the average annual bonus for the number of full fiscal years
Employee has completed.      (ii) The Company shall pay to Employee as compensation for services rendered, no later than five (5) business
days following the date of termination, a lump sum payment equal to a pro rata portion (based on the number of days elapsed during the fiscal year and/or other bonus performance period in which the termination occurs) of Employee s target bonus
under the MIP for the fiscal year and for any other partially completed bonus performance period in which the termination occurs.      (iii)
All waiting periods for the exercise of any stock options granted to Employee and all conditions or restrictions of any restricted stock granted to Employee shall terminate, and all such options shall be exercisable in full according to their terms,
and the restricted stock shall be transferred to Employee as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter.      (iv) Employee s participation
as of the date of termination in the life, medical/dental/vision and disability insurance plans and financial/tax counseling plan of the Company shall be continued on the same terms (including any cost sharing) as if Employee were an employee of the
Company (or equivalent benefits provided) until the earlier of Employee s commencement of substantially equivalent full-time employment with a new employer or twenty-four (24) months after the date of termination;  provided, however, 
that after the date of termination, Employee shall no longer be entitled to receive Company-paid executive physicals or, upon expiration of the applicable memberships, Company-paid airline memberships. In the event Employee shall die before the
expiration of the period during which the Company is required to continue Employee s participation in such insurance plans, the participation of Employee s surviving spouse and family in the Company s insurance plans shall continue
throughout such period.         
   7   

(v) Employee may elect upon termination to purchase any automobile then in the possession of Employee and
subject to a lease of which the Company is the lessor by payment to the Company of the residual value set forth in the lease, without any increase for remaining lease payments during the term or other lease breakage costs. Employee may elect to have
any such payment deducted from any payments due the Employee hereunder.      (vi) All payments and benefits provided under this Agreement shall
be subject to applicable tax withholding.      (b) Following Employee s termination of employment for any reason, the Company shall have
the unconditional right to reduce any payments owed to Employee hereunder by the amount of any due and unpaid principal and interest on any loans by the Company to Employee and Employee hereby agrees and consents to such right on the part of the
Company.      (c) The Agreement is not intended to constitute a  nonqualified deferred compensation plan  within the meaning of
Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event this Agreement or any compensation or benefit paid to Employee hereunder is deemed to be subject to Section 409A of the Code, Employee and the Company agree to negotiate
in good faith to adopt such amendments that are necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Code or to exempt such compensation or benefits from Section 409A. In addition, to the extent (i) any compensation or benefits to which
Employee becomes entitled under this agreement, or any agreement or plan referenced herein, in connection with Employee s termination of employment with the Company constitute deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code and
(ii) Employee is deemed at the time of such termination of employment to be a  specified  employee under Section 409A of the Code, then such compensation or benefits shall not be made or commence until the earliest of
(i) the expiration of the six (6)-month period measured from the date of Employee s  separation from service  (as such term is at the time defined in Treasury Regulations under Section 409A of the Code with the Company; or
(ii) the date of Employee s death following such separation from service; provided, however, that such deferral shall only be effected to the extent required to avoid adverse tax treatment to Employee, including (without limitation) the
additional twenty percent (20%) tax for which Employee would otherwise be liable under Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code in the absence of such deferral. During any period compensation or benefits to Employee are deferred pursuant to the
foregoing, Employee shall be entitled to interest on such deferral at a per annum rate equal to the highest rate of interest applicable to six (6)-month money market accounts offered by the following institutions: Citibank N.A., Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. or Bank of America, on the date of such  separation from service.  Upon the expiration of the applicable deferral period, any compensation or benefits which would have otherwise been paid during that period (whether in a single sum or
in installments) in the absence of this paragraph shall be paid to Employee or Employee s beneficiary in one lump sum.         
   8   

(d) Any payment pursuant to this Section 4 shall be conditioned upon the Employee signing a release
in the form attached as Exhibit A (the  Release ). The Employee shall not be entitled to such payment, and no payment shall be made to the Employee, until the period for revoking the Release has expired and the Release is effective.
     5.  GROSS-UP PAYMENT.       (a) If it is
determined that any Payment would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax,
together with any interest or penalties thereon, is herein referred to as an  Excise Tax ), then Employee shall be entitled to an additional payment (a  Gross-Up Payment ) in an amount that will place Employee in the same
after-tax economic position that Employee would have enjoyed if the Excise Tax had not applied to the Payment; provided, however, that if the aggregate value of the Payments is less than 110% of the product (such product, the  Excise Tax
Threshold ) of three times the Employee s  base amount  (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code), then the Employee shall not be entitled to a Gross-Up Payment and the Payments shall be reduced so their aggregate
value is equal to $1.00 less than the Excise Tax Threshold. The amount of any Gross-Up Payment shall be determined by a nationally-recognized independent public accounting firm designated by agreement between Employee and the Company (the
 Accounting Firm ). No Gross-Up Payments shall be payable hereunder if the Accounting Firm determines that (i) the Payments are not subject to an Excise Tax or (ii) the aggregate value of the payments is less than 110% of the
Excise Tax Threshold.       Payment  means (i) any amount due or paid to Employee under this Agreement, (ii) any amount
that is due or paid to Employee under any plan, program or arrangement of the Company and its subsidiaries and (iii) any amount or benefit that is due or payable to Employee under this Agreement or under any plan, program or arrangement of the
Company and its subsidiaries not otherwise covered under clause (i) or (ii) hereof which must reasonably be taken into account under Section 280G of the Code in determining the amount the  parachute payments  received by
Employee, including, without limitation, any amounts which must be taken into account under Section 280G of the Code as a result of (A) the acceleration of the vesting of any option, restricted stock or other equity award, (B) the
acceleration of the time at which any payment or benefit is receivable by Employee or (C) any contingent severance or other amounts that are payable to Employee.      (b) Subject to the provisions of Section 5(c), all determinations required under this Section 5, including whether a Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of the Payments constituting excess parachute
payments, and the amount of the Gross-Up Payment, shall be made by the Accounting Firm, which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to Employee and the Company within fifteen days of the date reasonably requested by Employee or the
Company on which a determination         
   9   

under this Section 5 is necessary or advisable. The Company shall pay to Employee the initial Gross-Up Payment
within 5 days of the receipt by Employee and the Company of the determination of the Accounting Firm. If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by Employee (including by reason of reduction of the Employee s Payments
pursuant to Section 5(a)), the Company shall cause its accountants to provide Employee with an opinion that the Accounting Firm has substantial authority under the Code not to report an Excise Tax on Employee s federal income tax return.
Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon Employee and the Company. If the initial Gross-Up Payment is insufficient to cover the amount of the Excise Tax that is ultimately determined to be owing by Employee with respect to any
Payment (hereinafter an  Underpayment ), the Company, after exhausting its remedies under Section 5(c) below, shall promptly pay to Employee an additional Gross-Up Payment in respect of the Underpayment.      (c) Employee shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the
Employee of Excise Taxes in the case where Employee is determined to not be entitled to a Gross-Up Payment, or additional Excise Taxes such that the Gross-Up Payment is insufficient to cover all of the Excise Taxes . Such notice shall be given as
soon as practicable after Employee knows of such claim and shall apprise the Company of the nature of the claim and the date on which the claim is requested to be paid. Employee agrees not to pay the claim until the expiration of the thirty
(30) day period following the date on which Employee notifies the Company, or such shorter period ending on the date the Taxes with respect to such claim are due (the  Notice Period ). If the Company notifies Employee in writing prior
to the expiration of the Notice Period that it desires to contest the claim; Employee shall: (i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to the claim; (ii) take such action in connection with the claim
as the Company may reasonably request, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company and reasonably acceptable to Employee; (iii) cooperate with the
Company in good faith in contesting the claim; and (iv) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to the claim. Employee shall permit the Company to control all proceedings related to the claim and, at its option, permit the
Company to pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings, and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim. If requested by the Company, Employee agrees either to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund
or contest the claim in any permissible manner and to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts as the Company shall determine;  provided,
however,  that, if the Company directs Employee to pay such claim and pursue a refund, the Company shall advance the amount of such payment to Employee on an after-tax and interest-free basis (an  Advance ). The Company s control
of the contest related to the claim shall be limited to the issues related to the Excise Taxes and Employee shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issues raised by the Internal Revenue Service or other taxing
authority. If the Company does not notify Employee in writing prior to the end of the Notice Period of its desire to contest the claim or if the Internal Revenue         
   10   

Service ultimately prevails on its claim, the Company shall pay to Employee a Gross-Up Payment or an additional Gross-Up
Payment in respect of the excess parachute payments that are the subject of the claim, and Employee agrees to pay the amount of the Excise Tax that is the subject of the claim to the applicable taxing authority in accordance with applicable law.
     (d) If, after receipt by Employee of an Advance, Employee becomes entitled to a refund with respect to the claim to which such Advance
relates, Employee shall pay the Company the amount of the refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after Taxes applicable thereto). If, after receipt by Employee of an Advance, a determination is made that Employee shall not be
entitled to any refund with respect to the claim, then the amount of the Advance shall not be required to be repaid by Employee and the amount thereof shall offset the amount of the Gross-Up Payment or additional Gross-Up Payment then owing to
Employee.      (e) The Company shall indemnify Employee and hold Employee harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any costs, expenses, penalties,
fines, interest or other liabilities ( Losses ) incurred by Employee with respect to the exercise by the Company of any of its rights under this Section 5, including, without limitation, any Losses related to the Company s
decision to contest a claim or any imputed income to Employee resulting from any Advance or action taken on Employee s behalf by the Company hereunder. The Company shall pay all legal fees and expenses incurred under this Section 5, and
shall promptly reimburse Employee for the reasonable expenses incurred by Employee in connection with any actions taken by the Company or required to be taken by Employee hereunder. The Company shall also pay all of the fees and expenses of the
Accounting Firm, including, without limitation, the fees and expenses related to the opinion referred to in Section 5(b).      6.  GENERAL. 
     (a) Employee shall retain in confidence under the conditions of the Company s confidentiality agreement with Employee any proprietary
or other confidential information known to Employee concerning the Company and its business so long as such information is not publicly disclosed and disclosure is not required by an order of any governmental body or court. If required, Employee
shall return to the Company any memoranda, documents or other materials proprietary to the Company.      (b) While employed by the Company and
following the termination of such employment after a Change in Control for a period of two (2) years, Employee shall not:      (i) whether
for Employee s own account or for the account of any other individual, partnership, firm, corporation or other business organization, intentionally solicit, endeavor to entice away from the Company or a subsidiary of the Company (each, a
 Protected Party ), or otherwise interfere with the relationship of a Protected Party with, any person who is employed by a Protected Party or any person or entity who is, or was within the then most recent twelve (12) month period, a
customer or client of a Protected Party; or         
   11   

(ii) without the prior written consent of the Protected Party, in any geographic area in which the
Protected Party is then conducting business, directly or indirectly own an interest in, manage, operate, join, control, lend money or render financial or other assistance to or participate in or be connected with, as an officer, employee, partner,
stockholder, consultant or otherwise, any individual, partnership, firm, corporation or other business organization or entity that is engaged in any business in which the Protected Party is actively engaged at the time;  provided, however, 
that the restrictions in this Section 6(b)(ii) shall not apply to (A) any non-employee directorships held by Employee as of the date hereof or (B) ownership by Employee for personal investment purposes only of not in excess of 1% of
the voting stock of any publicly held corporation.      Employee acknowledges that a breach of any of the covenants contained in this
Section 6(b) may result in material irreparable injury to the Company for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it may not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of such a breach, any payments
remaining under the terms of this Agreement shall cease and the Company may be entitled to obtain a temporary restraining order and/or a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining Employee from engaging in activities prohibited by this
Section 6(b) or such other relief as may be required to specifically enforce any of the covenants in this Section 6(b). Employee agrees to and hereby does submit to  in personam  jurisdiction before each and every such court in the
State of California, County of Santa Clara, for that purpose. This Section 6(b) shall survive any termination of this Agreement.      (c)
If litigation is brought by Employee to enforce or interpret any provision contained in this Agreement, the Company shall indemnify Employee for Employee s reasonable attorney s fees and disbursements incurred in such litigation and pay
prejudgment interest on any money judgment obtained by Employee calculated at the prime rate of interest in effect from time to time at the Bank of America, San Francisco, from the date that payment should have been made under the Agreement,
provided that Employee shall not have been found by the court in which such litigation is pending to have had no cause in bringing the action, or to have acted in bad faith, which finding must be final with the time to appeal therefrom having
expired and no appeal having been taken.      (d) Except as provided in Section 4, the Company s obligation to pay to Employee the
compensation and to make the arrangements provided in this Agreement shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including, without limitation, any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which
the Company may have against Employee or anyone else. All amounts payable by the Company hereunder shall be paid without notice or demand. Subject to Section 4(a)(iv), Employee shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment
provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment.         
   12   

(e) The Company shall require any successor, whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger,
consolidation or otherwise, to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, by written agreement to expressly assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be
required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.      (f) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by
Employee s heirs, successors and assigns. If Employee should die while any amounts would still be payable to Employee hereunder if Employee had continued to live, all such amounts shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to
Employee s heirs, successors and assigns.      (g) For the purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for
in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:       
    or to such other address as either party furnishes to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that
notices of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.      (h) This Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement between
Employee and the Company concerning the subject matter of this Agreement.      (i) The validity, interpretation, construction and performance
of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without giving effect to the provisions, principles or policies thereof relating to choice or conflict of laws. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this
Agreement in any circumstance shall not affect the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other circumstance or the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, and, except to the extent such provision is invalid
or unenforceable, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. Any provision in this Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or
unenforceability without invalidating or affecting the remaining provisions hereof in such jurisdiction, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other
jurisdiction. This Section 6(i) shall survive any termination of this Agreement.         
   13   

(j) This Agreement may be amended or terminated by the Company pursuant to a resolution adopted by the
Board at any time prior to a Potential Change in Control Date. After a Change in Control Date or a Potential Change in Control Date, this Agreement may only be amended or terminated in writing with the consent of Employee.      (k) No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, express or implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either party
which are not expressly set forth in this Agreement and this Agreement shall supersede all prior agreements, negotiations, correspondence, undertakings and communications of the parties, oral or written, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties acknowledge that they have read and understand the terms of this Agreement and have executed this
Agreement to be effective as of                       .       

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC.  

EMPLOYEE   

By:   

Title:  

14   

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.5>
 3
 dex105.htm
 FORM OF REGISTRANT'S CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT FOR SENIOR EXECUTIVES

Form of Registrant's Change in Control Agreement for Senior Executives 

Exhibit 10.5         CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT          FOR SENIOR EXECUTIVES (Chief Financial Officer and General
Counsel)          CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT        THIS CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT ( Agreement ) is entered into effective as of               , by and between VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC., a
Delaware corporation (the  Company )   1   , and
              , an employee of the Company ( Employee ).      The
Company s Board of Directors (the  Board ) has determined that it is in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders for the Company to agree to pay Employee termination compensation in the event Employee should leave the
employ of the Company under the circumstances described below. The Board recognizes that the possibility of a proposal from a third person, whether or not solicited by the Company, concerning a possible  Change in Control  of the Company
(as such language is defined in Section 3(d)) will be unsettling to Employee. Therefore, the arrangements set forth in this Agreement are being made to help assure a continuing dedication by Employee to Employee s duties to the Company
notwithstanding the proposal or occurrence of a Change in Control. The Board believes it imperative, should the Company receive any proposal from a third party, that Employee, without being influenced by the uncertainties of Employee s own
situation, be able to assess and advise the Board whether such proposals are in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders, and to enable Employee to take action regarding such proposals as the Board might determine to be appropriate. The
Board also wishes to demonstrate to key personnel that the Company desires to enhance management relations and its ability to retain and, if needed, to attract new management, and intends to ensure that loyal and dedicated management personnel are
treated fairly.      In view of the foregoing, the Company and Employee agree as follows:      1.  EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM OF AGREEMENT .      This
Agreement is effective and binding on the Company and Employee as of the date hereof;  provided, however,  that, subject to Section 2(d), the provisions of Sections 3 and 4 shall become operative only upon the Change in Control Date.

1     
   Company  shall include the Company, any successor to the Company s business and/or assets, and any party which executes and delivers the agreement
required by Section 6(e) or which otherwise becomes bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement by operation of law or otherwise.           
   1   

2.  EMPLOYMENT OF EMPLOYEE .      (a) Except as provided in Sections 2(b), 2(c) and 2(d), nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right which Employee may otherwise have to terminate Employee s employment, nor shall anything in this Agreement
affect any right which the Company may have to terminate Employee s employment at any time in any lawful manner.      (b) In the event of
a Potential Change in Control, to be eligible to receive the benefits provided by this Agreement, Employee will not voluntarily leave the employ of the Company, and will continue to perform Employee s regular duties and the services specified
in the recitals of this Agreement until the Change in Control Date. Should Employee voluntarily terminate employment prior to the Change in Control Date, this Agreement shall lapse upon such termination and be of no further force or effect.
     (c) If Employee s employment terminates on or after the Change in Control Date as provided under Sections 3 and 4, the Company will
provide to Employee the payments and benefits as provided in Sections 3 and 4.      (d) If Employee s employment is terminated by the
Company without Cause prior to the Change in Control Date but on or after a Potential Change in Control Date, then the Company will provide to Employee the payments and benefits as provided in Sections 3 and 4 unless the Company reasonably
demonstrates that Employee s termination of employment neither (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control nor (ii) arose in connection with or in anticipation of a
Change in Control. Solely for purposes of determining the timing of payments and the provision of benefits in Sections 3 and 4 under the circumstances described in this Section 2(d), Employee s date of termination shall be deemed to be the
Change in Control Date.      3.  TERMINATION FOLLOWING CHANGE IN CONTROL .      (a) If a Change in Control shall have occurred, Employee shall be entitled to the benefits provided in Section 4 upon the subsequent termination of Employee s employment within the applicable period set
forth in Section 4 unless such termination is due to Employee s death, Retirement or Disability or is for Cause or is effected by Employee other than for Good Reason (as such terms are defined in Section 3(d)).      (b) If within eighteen (18) months after a Change in Control, Employee s employment is terminated by reason of Employee s death or
Disability, Employee (or, if applicable, his or her estate) shall be entitled to death or long-term disability benefits from the Company no less favorable than the most favorable benefits to which Employee would have been entitled had the death or
Disability occurred at any time during the period commencing one (1) year prior to the Change in Control.         
   2   

(c) If Employee s employment shall be terminated by the Company for Cause or by Employee other than
for Good Reason during the term of this Agreement, the Company shall pay Employee s base salary through the date of termination at the rate in effect at the time notice of termination is given, and the Company shall have no further obligations
to Employee under this Agreement.      (d) For purposes of this Agreement:       Base Salary  shall mean the annual base salary paid to Employee immediately prior to a Change in Control, provided that such amount shall in no
event be less than the annual base salary paid to Employee during the one (1) year period immediately prior to the Change in Control.      A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if:      (i) Any individual or group constituting a
 person , as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (other than (A) the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (B) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of
the Company or of any of its subsidiaries), is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s outstanding
securities then entitled ordinarily (and apart from rights accruing under special circumstances) to vote for the election of directors; or      (ii) Continuing Directors cease to constitute at least a majority of the Board; or      (iii) there occurs a reorganization, merger,
consolidation or other corporate transaction involving the Company (a  Transaction ), in each case with respect to which the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such Transaction do not, immediately after the Transaction, own
more than 50% of the combined voting power of the Company or other corporation resulting from such Transaction; or      (iv) all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company are sold, liquidated or distributed;       provided, however,  that a  Change in Control  shall
not be deemed to have occurred under this Agreement if, prior to the occurrence of a specified event that would otherwise constitute a Change in Control hereunder, the disinterested Continuing Directors then in office, by a majority vote thereof,
determine that the occurrence of such specified event shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control with respect to Employee hereunder if the Change in Control results from actions or events in which Employee is a participant in a capacity other
than solely as an officer, employee or director of the Company.         
   3   

Change in Control Date  shall mean the date on which a Change in Control occurs.   
   Cause  shall mean:      (i) The
continued willful failure of Employee to perform Employee s duties to the Company (other than any such failure resulting from Employee s incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after written notice thereof (specifying the particulars
thereof in reasonable detail) and a reasonable opportunity to be heard and cure such failure are given to Employee by the Board or a committee thereof; or      (ii) The willful commission by Employee of a wrongful act that caused or was reasonably likely to cause substantial damage to the Company, or an act of fraud in the performance of Employee s duties on behalf of
the Company; or      (iii) The conviction of, or plea of  nolo contendere  by, Employee for commission of a felony, or plea of  nolo 
 contender by , in connection with the performance of Employee s duties on behalf of the Company; or      (iv) The order of a federal
or state regulatory authority having jurisdiction over the Company or its operations or by a court of competent jurisdiction requiring the termination of Employee s employment by the Company.       Continuing Directors  shall mean the directors of the Company in office on the date hereof and any successor to any such director who was
nominated or selected by a majority of the Continuing Directors in office at the time of the director s nomination or selection and who is not an  affiliate  or  associate  (as defined in Regulation 12B under the Exchange
Act) of any person who is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities representing ten percent (10%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s outstanding securities then entitled ordinarily to vote for the
election of directors.       Disability  shall mean Employee s incapacity due to physical or mental illness such that Employee
shall have become qualified to receive benefits under the Company s long-term disability plan as in effect on the date of the Change in Control.       Dispute  shall mean, in the case of termination of Employee s employment for Disability or Cause, that Employee challenges the existence of Disability or Cause, and in the case of termination of
Employee s employment for Good Reason, that the Company challenges the existence of Good Reason for termination of Employee s employment.         
   4   

Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.       Equivalent Position  shall mean an employment position that:      (i) is in a substantive area of competence (e.g., finance, accounting, legal, operations management or human resources) that is consistent with Employee s experience and not materially different from the
substantive area of competence of Employee s position with the Company prior to the Change in Control;      (ii) requires that Employee
serve in a role and perform duties that are functionally equivalent to the role and duties performed by Employee for the Company prior to the Change in Control;      (iii) carries a title that does not connote a lesser rank or corporate role than is connoted by Employee s title with the Company prior to the Change in Control;      (iv) does not constitute a material, adverse change in Employee s responsibilities or duties, when compare to Employee s responsibilities or
duties with the Company prior to the Change in Control;      (v) requires that Employee be deemed an executive officer (for purposes of the
rules promulgated under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of a publicly-traded successor entity having net assets or annual revenues that are no less than those of the Company prior to the Change in Control; and      (vi) has Employee reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer of the combined or acquiring company.       Good Reason  shall mean:      (i) The
assignment to Employee of a position, title, responsibilities or duties such that he no longer holds an Equivalent Position; or      (ii) A
reduction of Employee s total compensation as the same may have been increased from time to time after the Change in Control Date other than (A) a reduction implemented with the consent of Employee or (B) a reduction that is generally
comparable (proportionately) to compensation reductions imposed on senior executives of the Company generally; or      (iii) The failure to
provide to Employee the benefits and perquisites, including participation on a comparable basis in the Company s stock option, incentive, and other similar plans in which employees of the Company of comparable title and salary grade
participate, as were provided to Employee immediately prior to a Change in Control, or with a package of benefits and perquisites that are substantially comparable in all material respects to such benefits and perquisites provided prior to the
Change in Control; or         
   5   

(iv) The relocation of the office of the Company where Employee is providing Employee s services to
the Company immediately prior to the Change in Control Date (the  CIC Location ) to a location which is more than 50 miles away from the CIC Location or the Company s requiring Employee to be based more than 50 miles away from the CIC
Location (except for required travel on the Company s business to an extent substantially consistent with Employee s customary business travel obligations in the ordinary course of business prior to the Change in Control Date);   
  (v) The failure of the Company to obtain promptly upon any Change in Control the express written assumption of an agreement to perform this Agreement
by any successor as contemplated in Section 6(e); or      (vi) The attempted termination of Employee s employment for Cause on
grounds insufficient to constitute a basis of termination for Cause under this Agreement; or      (vii) The failure of the Company to promptly
make any payment into escrow when so required by Section 3(f).      Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, a termination for
 Good Reason  shall not occur unless the Employee has provided written notice to the Company of the Employee s intention to terminate employment and the specific reason(s) for such  Good Reason . Following receipt of such
written notice, the Company shall have the right, within fifteen (15) days of receiving such notice, to cure the circumstances giving rise to such  Good Reason .       Potential Change in Control  shall mean the earliest to occur of (a) the execution of an agreement or letter of intent, the consummation
of the transactions described in which would result in a Change in Control, (b) the approval by the Board of a transaction or series of transactions, the consummation of which would result in a Change in Control, or (c) the public
announcement of a tender offer for the Company s voting stock, the completion of which would result in a Change in Control;  provided,  that no such event shall be a  Potential Change in Control  unless (i) in the case of
any agreement or letter of intent described in clause (a), the transaction described therein is subsequently consummated by the Company and the other party or parties to such agreement or letter of intent and thereupon constitutes a  Change in
Control , (ii) in the case of any Board-approved transaction described in clause (b), the transaction so approved is subsequently consummated and thereupon constitutes a  Change in Control  or (iii) in the case of any tender
offer described in clause (c), such tender offer is subsequently completed and such completion thereupon constitutes a  Change in Control .         
   6   

Potential Change in Control Date  shall mean the date on which a Potential Change in Control
occurs.       Retirement  shall mean Employee s actual retirement after reaching the normal or early retirement date provided
for in the Company s Retirement and Profit-Sharing Program as in effect on the date of Employee s termination of employment.      (e)
Any termination of employment by the Company or by Employee shall be communicated by written notice, specify the date of termination, state the specific basis for termination and set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances of the
termination in order to provide a basis for determining the entitlement to any payments under this Agreement.      (f) If within thirty
(30) days after notice of termination is given, the party to whom the notice was given notifies the other party that a Dispute exists, the parties will promptly pursue resolution of such Dispute with reasonable diligence;  provided,
however,  that pending resolution of any such Dispute, the Company shall pay 75% of any amounts which would otherwise be due Employee pursuant to Section 4 if such Dispute did not exist into escrow pending resolution of such Dispute and pay
25% of such amounts to Employee. Employee agrees to return to the Company any such amounts to which it is ultimately determined that he is not entitled. If, following a final, nonappealable determination that Employee is not entitled to retain all
or any portion of this amount, Employee fails to return such excess amount, then Employee shall be required to pay the full costs of recovering such amount.      4.  PAYMENTS AND BENEFITS UPON TERMINATION .      (a) If within eighteen (18) months after a Change in Control, the Company
terminates Employee s employment other than by reason of Employee s death, Disability, Retirement or for Cause, or if Employee terminates Employee s employment for Good Reason, then the Employee shall be entitled to the following
payments and benefits:      (i) The Company shall pay to Employee as compensation for services rendered, no later than five (5) business
days following the date of termination, a lump sum severance payment equal to 2.50 multiplied by the sum of: (A) Employee s Base Salary; and (B) the greater of (x) the Employee s most recently established target annual bonus
under the Company s Management Incentive Plan (the  MIP ) and (y) the average annual bonus that was paid to Employee in the three (3) fiscal years ending prior to the date of termination under the MIP. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if Employee has not completed at least three (3) full fiscal years of service with the Company prior to Employee s termination date, then the amount determined in (y) above, shall be based on the average annual bonus for
the number of full fiscal years Employee has completed.         
   7   

(ii) The Company shall pay to Employee as compensation for services rendered, no later than five
(5) business days following the date of termination, a lump sum payment equal to a pro rata portion (based on the number of days elapsed during the fiscal year and/or other bonus performance period in which the termination occurs) of
Employee s target bonus under the MIP for the fiscal year and for any other partially completed bonus performance period in which the termination occurs.      (iii) All waiting periods for the exercise of any stock options granted to Employee and all conditions or restrictions of any restricted stock granted to Employee shall terminate, and all such options shall be
exercisable in full according to their terms, and the restricted stock shall be transferred to Employee as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter.      (iv) Employee s participation as of the date of termination in the life, medical/dental/vision and disability insurance plans and financial/tax counseling plan of the Company shall be continued on the same terms
(including any cost sharing) as if Employee were an employee of the Company (or equivalent benefits provided) until the earlier of Employee s commencement of substantially equivalent full-time employment with a new employer or twenty-four
(24) months after the date of termination;  provided, however,  that after the date of termination, Employee shall no longer be entitled to receive Company-paid executive physicals or, upon expiration of the applicable memberships,
Company-paid airline memberships. In the event Employee shall die before the expiration of the period during which the Company is required to continue Employee s participation in such insurance plans, the participation of Employee s
surviving spouse and family in the Company s insurance plans shall continue throughout such period.      (v) Employee may elect upon
termination to purchase any automobile then in the possession of Employee and subject to a lease of which the Company is the lessor by payment to the Company of the residual value set forth in the lease, without any increase for remaining lease
payments during the term or other lease breakage costs. Employee may elect to have any such payment deducted from any payments due the Employee hereunder.      (vi) All payments and benefits provided under this Agreement shall be subject to applicable tax withholding.      (b) Following Employee s termination of employment for any reason, the Company shall have the unconditional right to reduce any payments owed to Employee hereunder by the amount of any due and unpaid principal and interest on any loans
by the Company to Employee and Employee hereby agrees and consents to such right on the part of the Company.         
   8   

(c) The Agreement is not intended to constitute a  nonqualified deferred compensation plan 
within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event this Agreement or any compensation or benefit paid to Employee hereunder is deemed to be subject to Section 409A of the Code, Employee and the
Company agree to negotiate in good faith to adopt such amendments that are necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Code or to exempt such compensation or benefits from Section 409A. In addition, to the extent (i) any compensation
or benefits to which Employee becomes entitled under this agreement, or any agreement or plan referenced herein, in connection with Employee s termination of employment with the Company constitute deferred compensation subject to
Section 409A of the Code and (ii) Employee is deemed at the time of such termination of employment to be a  specified  employee under Section 409A of the Code, then such compensation or benefits shall not be made or commence
until the earliest of (i) the expiration of the six (6)-month period measured from the date of Employee s  separation from service  (as such term is at the time defined in Treasury Regulations under Section 409A of the Code
with the Company; or (ii) the date of Employee s death following such separation from service; provided, however, that such deferral shall only be effected to the extent required to avoid adverse tax treatment to Employee, including
(without limitation) the additional twenty percent (20%) tax for which Employee would otherwise be liable under Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code in the absence of such deferral. During any period compensation or benefits to Employee are
deferred pursuant to the foregoing, Employee shall be entitled to interest on such deferral at a per annum rate equal to the highest rate of interest applicable to six (6)-month money market accounts offered by the following institutions: Citibank
N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. or Bank of America, on the date of such  separation from service.  Upon the expiration of the applicable deferral period, any compensation or benefits which would have otherwise been paid during that period
(whether in a single sum or in installments) in the absence of this paragraph shall be paid to Employee or Employee s beneficiary in one lump sum.      (d) Any payment pursuant to this Section 4 shall be conditioned upon the Employee signing a release in the form attached as Exhibit A (the  Release ). The Employee shall not be entitled to such payment,
and no payment shall be made to the Employee, until the period for revoking the Release has expired and the Release is effective.      5.  GROSS-UP
PAYMENT .      (a) If it is determined that any Payment would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any interest or penalties thereon, is herein referred to as an  Excise Tax ), then
Employee shall be entitled to an additional payment (a  Gross-Up Payment ) in an         
   9   

amount that will place Employee in the same after-tax economic position that Employee would have enjoyed if the Excise
Tax had not applied to the Payment; provided, however, that if the aggregate value of the Payments is less than 110% of the product (such product, the  Excise Tax Threshold ) of three times the Employee s  base amount 
(within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code), then the Employee shall not be entitled to a Gross-Up Payment and the Payments shall be reduced so their aggregate value is equal to $1.00 less than the Excise Tax Threshold. The amount of any
Gross-Up Payment shall be determined by a nationally-recognized independent public accounting firm designated by agreement between Employee and the Company (the  Accounting Firm ). No Gross-Up Payments shall be payable hereunder if the
Accounting Firm determines that (i) the Payments are not subject to an Excise Tax or (ii) the aggregate value of the payments is less than 110% of the Excise Tax Threshold.       Payment  means (i) any amount due or paid to Employee under this Agreement, (ii) any amount that is due or paid to Employee under
any plan, program or arrangement of the Company and its subsidiaries and (iii) any amount or benefit that is due or payable to Employee under this Agreement or under any plan, program or arrangement of the Company and its subsidiaries not
otherwise covered under clause (i) or (ii) hereof which must reasonably be taken into account under Section 280G of the Code in determining the amount the  parachute payments  received by Employee, including, without
limitation, any amounts which must be taken into account under Section 280G of the Code as a result of (A) the acceleration of the vesting of any option, restricted stock or other equity award, (B) the acceleration of the time at
which any payment or benefit is receivable by Employee or (C) any contingent severance or other amounts that are payable to Employee.      (b) Subject to the provisions of Section 5(c), all determinations required under this Section 5, including whether a Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of the Payments constituting excess parachute payments, and the amount
of the Gross-Up Payment, shall be made by the Accounting Firm, which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to Employee and the Company within fifteen days of the date reasonably requested by Employee or the Company on which a
determination under this Section 5 is necessary or advisable. The Company shall pay to Employee the initial Gross-Up Payment within 5 days of the receipt by Employee and the Company of the determination of the Accounting Firm. If the Accounting
Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by Employee (including by reason of reduction of the Employee s Payments pursuant to Section 5(a)), the Company shall cause its accountants to provide Employee with an opinion that the
Accounting Firm has substantial authority under the Code not to report an Excise Tax on Employee s federal income tax return. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon Employee and the Company. If the initial Gross-Up
Payment is insufficient to cover the amount of the Excise Tax that is ultimately determined to be owing by Employee with respect to any Payment (hereinafter an  Underpayment ), the Company, after exhausting its remedies under
Section 5(c) below, shall promptly pay to Employee an additional Gross-Up Payment in respect of the Underpayment.         
   10   

(c) Employee shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if
successful, would require the payment by the Employee of Excise Taxes in the case where Employee is determined to not be entitled to a Gross-Up Payment, or additional Excise Taxes such that the Gross-Up Payment is insufficient to cover all of the
Excise Taxes. Such notice shall be given as soon as practicable after Employee knows of such claim and shall apprise the Company of the nature of the claim and the date on which the claim is requested to be paid. Employee agrees not to pay the claim
until the expiration of the thirty (30) day period following the date on which Employee notifies the Company, or such shorter period ending on the date the Taxes with respect to such claim are due (the  Notice Period ). If the Company
notifies Employee in writing prior to the expiration of the Notice Period that it desires to contest the claim; Employee shall: (i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to the claim; (ii) take such
action in connection with the claim as the Company may reasonably request, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company and reasonably acceptable to
Employee; (iii) cooperate with the Company in good faith in contesting the claim; and (iv) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to the claim. Employee shall permit the Company to control all proceedings related to
the claim and, at its option, permit the Company to pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings, and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim. If requested by the Company, Employee agrees either to
pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner and to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts as
the Company shall determine;  provided, however,  that, if the Company directs Employee to pay such claim and pursue a refund, the Company shall advance the amount of such payment to Employee on an after-tax and interest-free basis (an
 Advance ). The Company s control of the contest related to the claim shall be limited to the issues related to the Excise Taxes and Employee shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issues raised by the
Internal Revenue Service or other taxing authority. If the Company does not notify Employee in writing prior to the end of the Notice Period of its desire to contest the claim or if the Internal Revenue Service ultimately prevails on its claim, the
Company shall pay to Employee a Gross-Up Payment or an additional Gross-Up Payment in respect of the excess parachute payments that are the subject of the claim, and Employee agrees to pay the amount of the Excise Tax that is the subject of the
claim to the applicable taxing authority in accordance with applicable law.      (d) If, after receipt by Employee of an Advance, Employee
becomes entitled to a refund with respect to the claim to which such Advance relates, Employee shall pay the Company the amount of the refund (together with any interest paid or credited         
   11   

thereon after Taxes applicable thereto). If, after receipt by Employee of an Advance, a determination is made that
Employee shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to the claim, then the amount of the Advance shall not be required to be repaid by Employee and the amount thereof shall offset the amount of the Gross-Up Payment or additional Gross-Up
Payment then owing to Employee.      (e) The Company shall indemnify Employee and hold Employee harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any
costs, expenses, penalties, fines, interest or other liabilities ( Losses ) incurred by Employee with respect to the exercise by the Company of any of its rights under this Section 5, including, without limitation, any Losses related
to the Company s decision to contest a claim or any imputed income to Employee resulting from any Advance or action taken on Employee s behalf by the Company hereunder. The Company shall pay all legal fees and expenses incurred under this
Section 5, and shall promptly reimburse Employee for the reasonable expenses incurred by Employee in connection with any actions taken by the Company or required to be taken by Employee hereunder. The Company shall also pay all of the fees and
expenses of the Accounting Firm, including, without limitation, the fees and expenses related to the opinion referred to in Section 5(b).      6.
 GENERAL .      (a) Employee shall retain in confidence under the conditions of the Company s confidentiality agreement with Employee
any proprietary or other confidential information known to Employee concerning the Company and its business so long as such information is not publicly disclosed and disclosure is not required by an order of any governmental body or court. If
required, Employee shall return to the Company any memoranda, documents or other materials proprietary to the Company.      (b) While employed
by the Company and following the termination of such employment after a Change in Control for a period of two (2) years, Employee shall not, whether for Employee s own account or for the account of any other individual, partnership, firm,
corporation or other business organization, intentionally solicit, endeavor to entice away from the Company or a subsidiary of the Company (each, a  Protected Party ), or otherwise interfere with the relationship of a Protected Party with,
any person who is employed by a Protected Party or any person or entity who is, or was within the then most recent twelve (12) month period, a customer or client of a Protected Party.      Employee acknowledges that a breach of any of the covenants contained in this Section 6(b) may result in material irreparable injury to the Company
for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it may not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of such a breach, any payments remaining under the terms of this Agreement shall cease and the Company
may be entitled to obtain a temporary restraining order and/or a preliminary or permanent injunction         
   12   

restraining Employee from engaging in activities prohibited by this Section 6(b) or such other relief as may be
required to specifically enforce any of the covenants in this Section 6(b). Employee agrees to and hereby does submit to  in personam  jurisdiction before each and every such court in the State of California, County of Santa Clara, for
that purpose. This Section 6(b) shall survive any termination of this Agreement.      (c) If litigation is brought by Employee to enforce
or interpret any provision contained in this Agreement, the Company shall indemnify Employee for Employee s reasonable attorney s fees and disbursements incurred in such litigation and pay prejudgment interest on any money judgment
obtained by Employee calculated at the prime rate of interest in effect from time to time at the Bank of America, San Francisco, from the date that payment should have been made under the Agreement, provided that Employee shall not have been found
by the court in which such litigation is pending to have had no cause in bringing the action, or to have acted in bad faith, which finding must be final with the time to appeal therefrom having expired and no appeal having been taken.      (d) Except as provided in Section 4, the Company s obligation to pay to Employee the compensation and to make the arrangements provided in this
Agreement shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including, without limitation, any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the Company may have against Employee or anyone else. All
amounts payable by the Company hereunder shall be paid without notice or demand. Subject to Section 4(a)(iv), Employee shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment.
     (e) The Company shall require any successor, whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise, to all or
substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, by written agreement to expressly assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such
succession had taken place.      (f) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by Employee s heirs, successors and
assigns. If Employee should die while any amounts would still be payable to Employee hereunder if Employee had continued to live, all such amounts shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to Employee s heirs, successors and
assigns.      (g) For the purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing
and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:       

13   

or to such other address as either party furnishes to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of
change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.      (h) This Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement between Employee and the
Company concerning the subject matter of this Agreement.      (i) The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Agreement
shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without giving effect to the provisions, principles or policies thereof relating to choice or conflict of laws. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement in any
circumstance shall not affect the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other circumstance or the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, and, except to the extent such provision is invalid or
unenforceable, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. Any provision in this Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or
unenforceability without invalidating or affecting the remaining provisions hereof in such jurisdiction, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other
jurisdiction. This Section 6(i) shall survive any termination of this Agreement.      (j) This Agreement may be amended or terminated by
the Company pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board at any time prior to a Potential Change in Control Date. After a Change in Control Date or a Potential Change in Control Date, this Agreement may only be amended or terminated in writing with
the consent of Employee.      (k) No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, express or implied, with respect to the subject matter
hereof have been made by either party which are not expressly set forth in this Agreement and this Agreement shall supersede all prior agreements, negotiations, correspondence, undertakings and communications of the parties, oral or written, with
respect to the subject matter hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties acknowledge that they have read and understand the terms of this
Agreement and have executed this Agreement to be effective as of                       .       

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC.  

EMPLOYEE   

By:   

[Name]    
 
  Title:  

14   

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.6>
 4
 dex106.htm
 FORM OF REGISTRANT'S CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT FOR SENIOR EXECUTIVES

Form of Registrant's Change in Control Agreement for Senior Executives 

Exhibit 10.6         CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT          FOR SENIOR EXECUTIVES          CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT        THIS CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT ( Agreement ) is entered into effective as of               , by and between VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC., a Delaware corporation
(the  Company )   1   , and               , an
employee of the Company ( Employee ).      The Company s Board of Directors (the  Board ) has determined that it is in
the best interest of the Company and its stockholders for the Company to agree to pay Employee termination compensation in the event Employee should leave the employ of the Company under the circumstances described below. The Board recognizes that
the possibility of a proposal from a third person, whether or not solicited by the Company, concerning a possible  Change in Control  of the Company (as such language is defined in Section 3(d)) will be unsettling to Employee.
Therefore, the arrangements set forth in this Agreement are being made to help assure a continuing dedication by Employee to Employee s duties to the Company notwithstanding the proposal or occurrence of a Change in Control. The Board believes
it imperative, should the Company receive any proposal from a third party, that Employee, without being influenced by the uncertainties of Employee s own situation, be able to assess and advise the Board whether such proposals are in the best
interest of the Company and its stockholders, and to enable Employee to take action regarding such proposals as the Board might determine to be appropriate. The Board also wishes to demonstrate to key personnel that the Company desires to enhance
management relations and its ability to retain and, if needed, to attract new management, and intends to ensure that loyal and dedicated management personnel are treated fairly.      In view of the foregoing, the Company and Employee agree as follows:      1.  EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM OF AGREEMENT .      This Agreement is effective and binding on the Company and
Employee as of the date hereof;  provided, however,  that, subject to Section 2(d), the provisions of Sections 3 and 4 shall become operative only upon the Change in Control Date.        

1     
   Company  shall include the Company, any successor to the Company s business and/or assets, and any party which executes and delivers the agreement
required by Section 6(e) or which otherwise becomes bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement by operation of law or otherwise.           
   1   

2.  EMPLOYMENT OF EMPLOYEE .      (a) Except as provided in Sections 2(b), 2(c) and 2(d), nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right which Employee may otherwise have to terminate Employee s employment, nor shall anything in this Agreement
affect any right which the Company may have to terminate Employee s employment at any time in any lawful manner.      (b) In the event of
a Potential Change in Control, to be eligible to receive the benefits provided by this Agreement, Employee will not voluntarily leave the employ of the Company, and will continue to perform Employee s regular duties and the services specified
in the recitals of this Agreement until the Change in Control Date. Should Employee voluntarily terminate employment prior to the Change in Control Date, this Agreement shall lapse upon such termination and be of no further force or effect.
     (c) If Employee s employment terminates on or after the Change in Control Date as provided under Sections 3 and 4, the Company will
provide to Employee the payments and benefits as provided in Sections 3 and 4.      (d) If Employee s employment is terminated by the
Company without Cause prior to the Change in Control Date but on or after a Potential Change in Control Date, then the Company will provide to Employee the payments and benefits as provided in Sections 3 and 4 unless the Company reasonably
demonstrates that Employee s termination of employment neither (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control nor (ii) arose in connection with or in anticipation of a
Change in Control. Solely for purposes of determining the timing of payments and the provision of benefits in Sections 3 and 4 under the circumstances described in this Section 2(d), Employee s date of termination shall be deemed to be the
Change in Control Date.      3.  TERMINATION FOLLOWING CHANGE IN CONTROL .      (a) If a Change in Control shall have occurred, Employee shall be entitled to the benefits provided in Section 4 upon the subsequent termination of Employee s employment within the applicable period set
forth in Section 4 unless such termination is due to Employee s death, Retirement or Disability or is for Cause or is effected by Employee other than for Good Reason (as such terms are defined in Section 3(d)).      (b) If within eighteen (18) months after a Change in Control, Employee s employment is terminated by reason of Employee s death or
Disability, Employee (or, if applicable, his or her estate) shall be entitled to death or long-term disability benefits from the Company no less favorable than the most favorable benefits to which Employee would have been entitled had the death or
Disability occurred at any time during the period commencing one (1) year prior to the Change in Control.         
   2   

(c) If Employee s employment shall be terminated by the Company for Cause or by Employee other than
for Good Reason during the term of this Agreement, the Company shall pay Employee s base salary through the date of termination at the rate in effect at the time notice of termination is given, and the Company shall have no further obligations
to Employee under this Agreement.      (d) For purposes of this Agreement:       Base Salary  shall mean the annual base salary paid to Employee immediately prior to a Change in Control, provided that such amount shall in no
event be less than the annual base salary paid to Employee during the one (1) year period immediately prior to the Change in Control.      A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if:      (i) Any individual or group constituting a
 person , as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (other than (A) the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (B) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of
the Company or of any of its subsidiaries), is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s outstanding
securities then entitled ordinarily (and apart from rights accruing under special circumstances) to vote for the election of directors; or      (ii) Continuing Directors cease to constitute at least a majority of the Board; or      (iii) there occurs a reorganization, merger,
consolidation or other corporate transaction involving the Company (a  Transaction ), in each case with respect to which the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such Transaction do not, immediately after the Transaction, own
more than 50% of the combined voting power of the Company or other corporation resulting from such Transaction; or      (iv) all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company are sold, liquidated or distributed;  provided, however,  that a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred under this Agreement if, prior to the occurrence of a specified
event that would otherwise constitute a Change in Control hereunder, the disinterested Continuing Directors then in office, by a majority vote thereof, determine that the occurrence of such specified event shall not be deemed to be a Change in
Control with respect to Employee hereunder if the Change in Control results from actions or events in which Employee is a participant in a capacity other than solely as an officer, employee or director of the Company.         
   3   

Change in Control Date  shall mean the date on which a Change in Control occurs.   
   Cause  shall mean:      (i) The
continued willful failure of Employee to perform Employee s duties to the Company (other than any such failure resulting from Employee s incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after written notice thereof (specifying the particulars
thereof in reasonable detail) and a reasonable opportunity to be heard and cure such failure are given to Employee by the Board or a committee thereof; or      (ii) The willful commission by Employee of a wrongful act that caused or was reasonably likely to cause substantial damage to the Company, or an act of fraud in the performance of Employee s duties on behalf of
the Company; or      (iii) The conviction of, or plea of  nolo contendere  by, Employee for commission of a felony in connection with the
performance of Employee s duties on behalf of the Company; or      (iv) The order of a federal or state regulatory authority having
jurisdiction over the Company or its operations or by a court of competent jurisdiction requiring the termination of Employee s employment by the Company.       Continuing Directors  shall mean the directors of the Company in office on the date hereof and any successor to any such director who was nominated or selected by a majority of the Continuing Directors in
office at the time of the director s nomination or selection and who is not an  affiliate  or  associate  (as defined in Regulation 12B under the Exchange Act) of any person who is the beneficial owner, directly or
indirectly, of securities representing ten percent (10%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s outstanding securities then entitled ordinarily to vote for the election of directors.       Disability  shall mean Employee s incapacity due to physical or mental illness such that Employee shall have become qualified to receive
benefits under the Company s long-term disability plan as in effect on the date of the Change in Control.       Dispute  shall
mean, in the case of termination of Employee s employment for Disability or Cause, that Employee challenges the existence of Disability or Cause, and in the case of termination of Employee s employment for Good Reason, that the Company
challenges the existence of Good Reason for termination of Employee s employment.       Exchange Act  means the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.         
   4   

Good Reason  shall mean:      (i) The assignment of Employee to duties which are materially different from Employee s duties immediately prior to the Change in Control and which
result in a material reduction in Employee s authority and responsibility when compared to the highest level of authority and responsibility assigned to Employee at any time during the six (6) month period prior to the Change in Control
Date; or      (ii) A reduction of Employee s total compensation as the same may have been increased from time to time after the Change in
Control Date other than (A) a reduction implemented with the consent of Employee or (B) a reduction that is generally comparable (proportionately) to compensation reductions imposed on senior executives of the Company generally; or
     (iii) The failure to provide to Employee the benefits and perquisites, including participation on a comparable basis in the Company s
stock option, incentive, and other similar plans in which employees of the Company of comparable title and salary grade participate, as were provided to Employee immediately prior to a Change in Control, or with a package of benefits and perquisites
that are substantially comparable in all material respects to such benefits and perquisites provided prior to the Change in Control; or      (iv) The relocation of the office of the Company where Employee is providing Employee s services to the Company immediately prior to the Change in Control Date (the  CIC Location ) to a location which is more than 50 miles
away from the CIC Location or the Company s requiring Employee to be based more than 50 miles away from the CIC Location (except for required travel on the Company s business to an extent substantially consistent with Employee s
customary business travel obligations in the ordinary course of business prior to the Change in Control Date);      (v) The failure of the
Company to obtain promptly upon any Change in Control the express written assumption of an agreement to perform this Agreement by any successor as contemplated in Section 6(e); or      (vi) The attempted termination of Employee s employment for Cause on grounds insufficient to constitute a basis of termination for Cause under this
Agreement; or      (vii) The failure of the Company to promptly make any payment into escrow when so required by Section 3(f).   
  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, a termination for  Good Reason  shall not occur unless the Employee has provided written notice
to the Company of the Employee s intention to terminate employment and the specific reason(s) for such  Good Reason . Following receipt of such written notice, the Company shall have the right, within fifteen (15) days of
receiving such notice, to cure the circumstances giving rise to such  Good Reason .         
   5   

Potential Change in Control  shall mean the earliest to occur of (a) the execution of an
agreement or letter of intent, the consummation of the transactions described in which would result in a Change in Control, (b) the approval by the Board of a transaction or series of transactions, the consummation of which would result in a
Change in Control, or (c) the public announcement of a tender offer for the Company s voting stock, the completion of which would result in a Change in Control;  provided,  that no such event shall be a  Potential Change in
Control  unless (i) in the case of any agreement or letter of intent described in clause (a), the transaction described therein is subsequently consummated by the Company and the other party or parties to such agreement or letter of intent
and thereupon constitutes a  Change in Control , (ii) in the case of any Board-approved transaction described in clause (b), the transaction so approved is subsequently consummated and thereupon constitutes a  Change in
Control  or (iii) in the case of any tender offer described in clause (c), such tender offer is subsequently completed and such completion thereupon constitutes a  Change in Control .       Potential Change in Control Date  shall mean the date on which a Potential Change in Control occurs.       Retirement  shall mean Employee s actual retirement after reaching the normal or early retirement date provided for in the Company s
Retirement and Profit-Sharing Program as in effect on the date of Employee s termination of employment.      (e) Any termination of
employment by the Company or by Employee shall be communicated by written notice, specify the date of termination, state the specific basis for termination and set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances of the termination in order to
provide a basis for determining the entitlement to any payments under this Agreement.      (f) If within thirty (30) days after notice of
termination is given, the party to whom the notice was given notifies the other party that a Dispute exists, the parties will promptly pursue resolution of such Dispute with reasonable diligence;  provided, however,  that pending resolution of
any such Dispute, the Company shall pay 75% of any amounts which would otherwise be due Employee pursuant to Section 4 if such Dispute did not exist into escrow pending resolution of such Dispute and pay 25% of such amounts to Employee.
Employee agrees to return to the Company any such amounts to which it is ultimately determined that he is not entitled. If, following a final, nonappealable determination that Employee is not entitled to retain all or any portion of this amount,
Employee fails to return such excess amount, then Employee shall be required to pay the full costs of recovering such amount.         
   6   

4.  PAYMENTS AND BENEFITS UPON TERMINATION .      (a) If within eighteen (18) months after a Change in Control, the Company terminates Employee s employment other than by reason of
Employee s death, Disability, Retirement or for Cause, or if Employee terminates Employee s employment for Good Reason, then the Employee shall be entitled to the following payments and benefits:      (i) The Company shall pay to Employee as compensation for services rendered, no later than five (5) business days following the date of termination,
a lump sum severance payment equal to 2.50 multiplied by the sum of: (A) Employee s Base Salary; and (B) the greater of (x) the Employee s most recently established target annual bonus under the Company s Management
Incentive Plan (the  MIP ) and (y) the average annual bonus that was paid to Employee in the three (3) fiscal years ending prior to the date of termination under the MIP. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Employee has not
completed at least three (3) full fiscal years of service with the Company prior to Employee s termination date, then the amount determined in (y) above, shall be based on the average annual bonus for the number of full fiscal years
Employee has completed.      (ii) The Company shall pay to Employee as compensation for services rendered, no later than five (5) business
days following the date of termination, a lump sum payment equal to a pro rata portion (based on the number of days elapsed during the fiscal year and/or other bonus performance period in which the termination occurs) of Employee s target bonus
under the MIP for the fiscal year and for any other partially completed bonus performance period in which the termination occurs.      (iii)
All waiting periods for the exercise of any stock options granted to Employee and all conditions or restrictions of any restricted stock granted to Employee shall terminate, and all such options shall be exercisable in full according to their terms,
and the restricted stock shall be transferred to Employee as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter.      (iv) Employee s participation
as of the date of termination in the life, medical/dental/vision and disability insurance plans and financial/tax counseling plan of the Company shall be continued on the same terms (including any cost sharing) as if Employee were an employee of the
Company (or equivalent benefits provided) until the earlier of Employee s commencement of substantially equivalent full-time employment with a new employer or twenty-four (24) months after the date of termination;  provided, however, 
that after the date of termination, Employee shall no longer be entitled to receive Company-paid executive physicals or, upon expiration of the applicable memberships, Company-paid airline memberships. In the event Employee shall die before the
expiration of the period during which the Company is required to continue Employee s participation in such insurance plans, the participation of Employee s surviving spouse and family in the Company s insurance plans shall continue
throughout such period.         
   7   

(v) Employee may elect upon termination to purchase any automobile then in the possession of Employee and
subject to a lease of which the Company is the lessor by payment to the Company of the residual value set forth in the lease, without any increase for remaining lease payments during the term or other lease breakage costs. Employee may elect to have
any such payment deducted from any payments due the Employee hereunder.      (vi) All payments and benefits provided under this Agreement shall
be subject to applicable tax withholding.      (b) Following Employee s termination of employment for any reason, the Company shall have
the unconditional right to reduce any payments owed to Employee hereunder by the amount of any due and unpaid principal and interest on any loans by the Company to Employee and Employee hereby agrees and consents to such right on the part of the
Company.      (c) The Agreement is not intended to constitute a  nonqualified deferred compensation plan  within the meaning of
Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event this Agreement or any compensation or benefit paid to Employee hereunder is deemed to be subject to Section 409A of the Code, Employee and the Company agree to negotiate
in good faith to adopt such amendments that are necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Code or to exempt such compensation or benefits from Section 409A. In addition, to the extent (i) any compensation or benefits to which
Employee becomes entitled under this agreement, or any agreement or plan referenced herein, in connection with Employee s termination of employment with the Company constitute deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code and
(ii) Employee is deemed at the time of such termination of employment to be a  specified  employee under Section 409A of the Code, then such compensation or benefits shall not be made or commence until the earliest of
(i) the expiration of the six (6)-month period measured from the date of Employee s  separation from service  (as such term is at the time defined in Treasury Regulations under Section 409A of the Code with the Company; or
(ii) the date of Employee s death following such separation from service; provided, however, that such deferral shall only be effected to the extent required to avoid adverse tax treatment to Employee, including (without limitation) the
additional twenty percent (20%) tax for which Employee would otherwise be liable under Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code in the absence of such deferral. During any period compensation or benefits to Employee are deferred pursuant to the
foregoing, Employee shall be entitled to interest on such deferral at a per annum rate equal to the highest rate of interest applicable to six (6)-month money market accounts offered by the following institutions: Citibank N.A., Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. or Bank of America, on the date of such  separation from service.  Upon the expiration of the applicable deferral period, any compensation or benefits which would have otherwise been paid during that period (whether in a single sum or
in installments) in the absence of this paragraph shall be paid to Employee or Employee s beneficiary in one lump sum.         
   8   

(d) Any payment pursuant to this Section 4 shall be conditioned upon the Employee signing a release in the form
attached as Exhibit A (the  Release ). The Employee shall not be entitled to such payment, and no payment shall be made to the Employee, until the period for revoking the Release has expired and the Release is effective.      5.  GROSS-UP PAYMENT.       (a) If it is determined that
any Payment would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any
interest or penalties thereon, is herein referred to as an  Excise Tax ), then Employee shall be entitled to an additional payment (a  Gross-Up Payment ) in an amount that will place Employee in the same after-tax economic
position that Employee would have enjoyed if the Excise Tax had not applied to the Payment; provided, however, that if the aggregate value of the Payments is less than 110% of the product (such product, the  Excise Tax Threshold ) of three
times the Employee s  base amount  (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code), then the Employee shall not be entitled to a Gross-Up Payment and the Payments shall be reduced so their aggregate value is equal to $1.00 less
than the Excise Tax Threshold. The amount of any Gross-Up Payment shall be determined by a nationally-recognized independent public accounting firm designated by agreement between Employee and the Company (the  Accounting Firm ). No
Gross-Up Payments shall be payable hereunder if the Accounting Firm determines that (i) the Payments are not subject to an Excise Tax or (ii) the aggregate value of the payments is less than 110% of the Excise Tax Threshold.       Payment  means (i) any amount due or paid to Employee under this Agreement, (ii) any amount that is due or paid to Employee under
any plan, program or arrangement of the Company and its subsidiaries and (iii) any amount or benefit that is due or payable to Employee under this Agreement or under any plan, program or arrangement of the Company and its subsidiaries not
otherwise covered under clause (i) or (ii) hereof which must reasonably be taken into account under Section 280G of the Code in determining the amount the  parachute payments  received by Employee, including, without
limitation, any amounts which must be taken into account under Section 280G of the Code as a result of (A) the acceleration of the vesting of any option, restricted stock or other equity award, (B) the acceleration of the time at
which any payment or benefit is receivable by Employee or (C) any contingent severance or other amounts that are payable to Employee.      (b) Subject to the provisions of Section 5(c), all determinations required under this Section 5, including whether a Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of the Payments constituting excess parachute payments, and the amount
of the Gross-Up Payment, shall be made by the Accounting Firm, which shall provide detailed         
   9   

supporting calculations both to Employee and the Company within fifteen days of the date reasonably requested by Employee
or the Company on which a determination under this Section 5 is necessary or advisable. The Company shall pay to Employee the initial Gross-Up Payment within 5 days of the receipt by Employee and the Company of the determination of the
Accounting Firm. If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by Employee (including by reason of reduction of the Employee s Payments pursuant to Section 5(a)), the Company shall cause its accountants to provide
Employee with an opinion that the Accounting Firm has substantial authority under the Code not to report an Excise Tax on Employee s federal income tax return. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon Employee and the
Company. If the initial Gross-Up Payment is insufficient to cover the amount of the Excise Tax that is ultimately determined to be owing by Employee with respect to any Payment (hereinafter an  Underpayment ), the Company, after exhausting
its remedies under Section 5(c) below, shall promptly pay to Employee an additional Gross-Up Payment in respect of the Underpayment.      (c) Employee shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Employee of Excise Taxes in the case where Employee is determined to not be entitled to a
Gross-Up Payment, or additional Excise Taxes such that the Gross-Up Payment is insufficient to cover all of the Excise Taxes. Such notice shall be given as soon as practicable after Employee knows of such claim and shall apprise the Company of the
nature of the claim and the date on which the claim is requested to be paid. Employee agrees not to pay the claim until the expiration of the thirty (30) day period following the date on which Employee notifies the Company, or such shorter
period ending on the date the Taxes with respect to such claim are due (the  Notice Period ). If the Company notifies Employee in writing prior to the expiration of the Notice Period that it desires to contest the claim; Employee shall:
(i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to the claim; (ii) take such action in connection with the claim as the Company may reasonably request, including, without limitation, accepting legal
representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company and reasonably acceptable to Employee; (iii) cooperate with the Company in good faith in contesting the claim; and (iv) permit the Company to
participate in any proceedings relating to the claim. Employee shall permit the Company to control all proceedings related to the claim and, at its option, permit the Company to pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings,
hearings, and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim. If requested by the Company, Employee agrees either to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner and to prosecute such
contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts as the Company shall determine;  provided, however,  that, if the Company directs Employee to pay such claim
and pursue a refund, the Company shall advance the amount of such payment to Employee on an after-tax and interest-free basis (an  Advance ). The Company s control of the contest related to the claim shall be limited to the issues
related to the Excise Taxes and Employee shall be entitled to settle or         
   10   

contest, as the case may be, any other issues raised by the Internal Revenue Service or other taxing authority. If the
Company does not notify Employee in writing prior to the end of the Notice Period of its desire to contest the claim or if the Internal Revenue Service ultimately prevails on its claim, the Company shall pay to Employee a Gross-Up Payment or an
additional Gross-Up Payment in respect of the excess parachute payments that are the subject of the claim, and Employee agrees to pay the amount of the Excise Tax that is the subject of the claim to the applicable taxing authority in accordance with
applicable law.      (d) If, after receipt by Employee of an Advance, Employee becomes entitled to a refund with respect to the claim to which
such Advance relates, Employee shall pay the Company the amount of the refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after Taxes applicable thereto). If, after receipt by Employee of an Advance, a determination is made that Employee
shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to the claim, then the amount of the Advance shall not be required to be repaid by Employee and the amount thereof shall offset the amount of the Gross-Up Payment or additional Gross-Up Payment then
owing to Employee.      (e) The Company shall indemnify Employee and hold Employee harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any costs, expenses,
penalties, fines, interest or other liabilities ( Losses ) incurred by Employee with respect to the exercise by the Company of any of its rights under this Section 5, including, without limitation, any Losses related to the
Company s decision to contest a claim or any imputed income to Employee resulting from any Advance or action taken on Employee s behalf by the Company hereunder. The Company shall pay all legal fees and expenses incurred under this
Section 5, and shall promptly reimburse Employee for the reasonable expenses incurred by Employee in connection with any actions taken by the Company or required to be taken by Employee hereunder. The Company shall also pay all of the fees and
expenses of the Accounting Firm, including, without limitation, the fees and expenses related to the opinion referred to in Section 5(b).      6.
 GENERAL.       (a) Employee shall retain in confidence under the conditions of the Company s confidentiality agreement with Employee
any proprietary or other confidential information known to Employee concerning the Company and its business so long as such information is not publicly disclosed and disclosure is not required by an order of any governmental body or court. If
required, Employee shall return to the Company any memoranda, documents or other materials proprietary to the Company.      (b) While employed
by the Company and following the termination of such employment after a Change in Control for a period of two (2) years, Employee shall not, whether for Employee s own account or for the account of any other individual, partnership, firm,
corporation or other business organization, intentionally solicit, endeavor to entice away from the Company or a subsidiary of the Company (each, a         
   11   

Protected Party ), or otherwise interfere with the relationship of a Protected Party with, any person who is
employed by a Protected Party or any person or entity who is, or was within the then most recent twelve (12) month period, a customer or client of a Protected Party.      Employee acknowledges that a breach of any of the covenants contained in this Section 6(b) may result in material irreparable injury to the Company for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it may not be
possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of such a breach, any payments remaining under the terms of this Agreement shall cease and the Company may be entitled to obtain a temporary restraining order and/or a
preliminary or permanent injunction restraining Employee from engaging in activities prohibited by this Section 6(b) or such other relief as may be required to specifically enforce any of the covenants in this Section 6(b). Employee agrees
to and hereby does submit to  in personam  jurisdiction before each and every such court in the State of California, County of Santa Clara, for that purpose. This Section 6(b) shall survive any termination of this Agreement.      (c) If litigation is brought by Employee to enforce or interpret any provision contained in this Agreement, the Company shall indemnify Employee for
Employee s reasonable attorney s fees and disbursements incurred in such litigation and pay prejudgment interest on any money judgment obtained by Employee calculated at the prime rate of interest in effect from time to time at the Bank of
America, San Francisco, from the date that payment should have been made under the Agreement, provided that Employee shall not have been found by the court in which such litigation is pending to have had no cause in bringing the action, or to have
acted in bad faith, which finding must be final with the time to appeal therefrom having expired and no appeal having been taken.      (d)
Except as provided in Section 4, the Company s obligation to pay to Employee the compensation and to make the arrangements provided in this Agreement shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance,
including, without limitation, any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the Company may have against Employee or anyone else. All amounts payable by the Company hereunder shall be paid without notice or demand. Subject to
Section 4(a)(iv), Employee shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment.      (e) The Company shall require any successor, whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise, to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, by written agreement
to expressly assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.      (f) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by Employee s heirs, successors and assigns. If Employee should die while any
amounts         
   12   

would still be payable to Employee hereunder if Employee had continued to live, all such amounts shall be paid in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement to Employee s heirs, successors and assigns.      (g) For the purposes of this Agreement,
notices and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as
follows:       
    or to such other address as either party furnishes to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that
notices of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.      (h) This Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement between
Employee and the Company concerning the subject matter of this Agreement.      (i) The validity, interpretation, construction and performance
of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without giving effect to the provisions, principles or policies thereof relating to choice or conflict of laws. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this
Agreement in any circumstance shall not affect the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other circumstance or the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, and, except to the extent such provision is invalid
or unenforceable, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. Any provision in this Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or
unenforceability without invalidating or affecting the remaining provisions hereof in such jurisdiction, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other
jurisdiction. This Section 6(i) shall survive any termination of this Agreement.      (j) This Agreement may be amended or terminated by
the Company pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board at any time prior to a Potential Change in Control Date. After a Change in Control Date or a Potential Change in Control Date, this Agreement may only be amended or terminated in writing with
the consent of Employee.         
   13   

(k) No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, express or implied, with respect to the subject
matter hereof have been made by either party which are not expressly set forth in this Agreement and this Agreement shall supersede all prior agreements, negotiations, correspondence, undertakings and communications of the parties, oral or written,
with respect to the subject matter hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties acknowledge that they have read and understand the terms of
this Agreement and have executed this Agreement to be effective as of                       .       

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC.  

EMPLOYEE   

By:   

Title:  

14   

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.7>
 5
 dex107.htm
 FORM OF REGISTRANT'S CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT FOR KEY EMPLOYEES

Form of Registrant's Change in Control Agreement for Key Employees 

Exhibit 10.7         CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT          FOR KEY EMPLOYEES          CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT        THIS CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT ( Agreement ) is entered into effective as of                by and between VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC., a Delaware corporation
(the  Company )   1   , and               , an
employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries ( Employee ).      The Company s Board of Directors (the  Board )
has determined that it is in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders for the Company to agree to pay Employee termination compensation in the event Employee should leave the employ of the Company under the circumstances described
below. The Board recognizes that the possibility of a proposal from a third person, whether or not solicited by the Company, concerning a possible  Change in Control  of the Company (as such language is defined in Section 3(d)) will
be unsettling to Employee. Therefore, the arrangements set forth in this Agreement are being made to help assure a continuing dedication by Employee to Employee s duties to the Company notwithstanding the proposal or occurrence of a Change in
Control. The Board believes it imperative, should the Company receive any proposal from a third party, that Employee, without being influenced by the uncertainties of Employee s own situation, be able to assess and advise the Board whether such
proposals are in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders, and to enable Employee to take action regarding such proposals as the Board might determine to be appropriate. The Board also wishes to demonstrate to key personnel that the
Company desires to enhance management relations and its ability to retain and, if needed, to attract new management, and intends to ensure that loyal and dedicated management personnel are treated fairly.      In view of the foregoing, the Company and Employee agree as follows:      1.  EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM OF AGREEMENT .      This Agreement is effective and binding on the Company and
Employee as of the date hereof;  provided, however,  that, subject to Section 2(d), the provisions of Sections 3 and 4 shall become operative only upon the Change in Control Date.        

1     
   Company  shall include the Company, any successor to the Company s business and/or assets, and any party which executes and delivers the agreement
required by Section 6(e) or which otherwise becomes bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement by operation of law or otherwise.           
   1   

2.  EMPLOYMENT OF EMPLOYEE .      (a) Except as provided in Sections 2(b), 2(c) and 2(d), nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right which Employee may otherwise have to terminate Employee s employment, nor shall anything in this Agreement
affect any right which the Company may have to terminate Employee s employment at any time in any lawful manner.      (b) In the event of
a Potential Change in Control, to be eligible to receive the benefits provided by this Agreement, Employee will not voluntarily leave the employ of the Company, and will continue to perform Employee s regular duties and the services specified
in the recitals of this Agreement until the Change in Control Date. Should Employee voluntarily terminate employment prior to the Change in Control Date, this Agreement shall lapse upon such termination and be of no further force or effect.
     (c) If Employee s employment terminates on or after the Change in Control Date as provided under Sections 3 and 4, the Company will
provide to Employee the payments and benefits as provided in Sections 3 and 4.      (d) If Employee s employment is terminated by the
Company without Cause prior to the Change in Control Date but on or after a Potential Change in Control Date, then the Company will provide to Employee the payments and benefits as provided in Sections 3 and 4 unless the Company reasonably
demonstrates that Employee s termination of employment neither (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control nor (ii) arose in connection with or in anticipation of a
Change in Control. Solely for purposes of determining the timing of payments and the provision of benefits in Sections 3 and 4 under the circumstances described in this Section 2(d), Employee s date of termination shall be deemed to be the
Change in Control Date.      3.  TERMINATION FOLLOWING CHANGE IN CONTROL .      (a) If a Change in Control shall have occurred, Employee shall be entitled to the benefits provided in Section 4 upon the subsequent termination of Employee s employment within the applicable period set
forth in Section 4 unless such termination is due to Employee s death, Retirement or Disability or is for Cause or is effected by Employee other than for Good Reason (as such terms are defined in Section 3(d)).      (b) If within eighteen (18) months a Change in Control, Employee s employment is terminated by reason of Employee s death or Disability,
Employee (or, if applicable, his or her estate) shall be entitled to death or long-term disability benefits from the Company no less favorable than the most favorable benefits to which Employee would have been entitled had the death or Disability
occurred at any time during the period commencing one (1) year prior to the Change in Control.         
   2   

(c) If Employee s employment shall be terminated by the Company for Cause or by Employee other than
for Good Reason during the term of this Agreement, the Company shall pay Employee s base salary through the date of termination at the rate in effect at the time notice of termination is given, and the Company shall have no further obligations
to Employee under this Agreement.      (d) For purposes of this Agreement:       Base Salary  shall mean the annual base salary paid to Employee immediately prior to a Change in Control, provided that such amount shall in no
event be less than the annual base salary paid to Employee during the one (1) year period immediately prior to the Change in Control.      A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if:      (i) Any individual or group constituting a
 person , as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (other than (A) the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (B) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of
the Company or of any of its subsidiaries), is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s outstanding
securities then entitled ordinarily (and apart from rights accruing under special circumstances) to vote for the election of directors; or      (ii) Continuing Directors cease to constitute at least a majority of the Board; or      (iii) there occurs a reorganization, merger,
consolidation or other corporate transaction involving the Company (a  Transaction ), in each case with respect to which the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such Transaction do not, immediately after the Transaction, own
more than 50% of the combined voting power of the Company or other corporation resulting from such Transaction; or      (iv) all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company are sold, liquidated or distributed;  provided, however,  that a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred under this Agreement if, prior to the occurrence of a specified
event that would otherwise constitute a Change in Control hereunder, the disinterested Continuing Directors then in office, by a majority vote thereof, determine that the occurrence of such specified event shall not be deemed to be a Change in
Control with respect to Employee hereunder if the Change in Control results from actions or events in which Employee is a participant in a capacity other than solely as an officer, employee or director of the Company.         
   3   

Change in Control Date  shall mean the date on which a Change in Control occurs.   
   Cause  shall mean:      (i) The
continued willful failure of Employee to perform Employee s duties to the Company (other than any such failure resulting from Employee s incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after written notice thereof (specifying the particulars
thereof in reasonable detail) and a reasonable opportunity to be heard and cure such failure are given to Employee by the Board or a committee thereof; or      (ii) The willful commission by Employee of a wrongful act that caused or was reasonably likely to cause substantial damage to the Company, or an act of fraud in the performance of Employee s duties on behalf of
the Company; or      (iii) The conviction of, or plea of  nolo contendere  by, Employee for commission of a felony in connection with the
performance of Employee s duties on behalf of the Company; or      (iv) The order of a federal or state regulatory authority having
jurisdiction over the Company or its operations or by a court of competent jurisdiction requiring the termination of Employee s employment by the Company.       Continuing Directors  shall mean the directors of the Company in office on the date hereof and any successor to any such director who was nominated or selected by a majority of the Continuing Directors in
office at the time of the director s nomination or selection and who is not an  affiliate  or  associate  (as defined in Regulation 12B under the Exchange Act) of any person who is the beneficial owner, directly or
indirectly, of securities representing ten percent (10%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s outstanding securities then entitled ordinarily to vote for the election of directors.       Disability  shall mean Employee s incapacity due to physical or mental illness such that Employee shall have become qualified to receive
benefits under the Company s long-term disability plan as in effect on the date of the Change in Control.       Dispute  shall
mean, in the case of termination of Employee s employment for Disability or Cause, that Employee challenges the existence of Disability or Cause, and in the case of termination of Employee s employment for Good Reason, that the Company
challenges the existence of Good Reason for termination of Employee s employment.         
   4   

Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.       Good Reason  shall mean:      (i) The
assignment of Employee to duties which are materially different from Employee s duties immediately prior to the Change in Control and which result in a material reduction in Employee s authority and responsibility when compared to the
highest level of authority and responsibility assigned to Employee at any time during the six (6) month period prior to the Change in Control Date; or      (ii) A reduction of Employee s total compensation as the same may have been increased from time to time after the Change in Control Date other than (A) a reduction implemented with the consent of Employee or
(B) a reduction that is generally comparable (proportionately) to compensation reductions imposed on key employees of the Company generally; or      (iii) The failure to provide to Employee the benefits and perquisites, including participation on a comparable basis in the Company s stock option, incentive, and other similar plans in which employees of the
Company of comparable title and salary grade participate, as were provided to Employee immediately prior to a Change in Control, or with a package of benefits and perquisites that are substantially comparable in all material respects to such
benefits and perquisites provided prior to the Change in Control; or      (iv) The relocation of the office of the Company where Employee is
providing Employee s services to the Company immediately prior to the Change in Control Date (the  CIC Location ) to a location which is more than 50 miles away from the CIC Location or the Company s requiring Employee to be
based more than 50 miles away from the CIC Location (except for required travel on the Company s business to an extent substantially consistent with Employee s customary business travel obligations in the ordinary course of business prior
to the Change in Control Date);      (v) The failure of the Company to obtain promptly upon any Change in Control the express written
assumption of an agreement to perform this Agreement by any successor as contemplated in Section 6(e); or      (vi) The attempted
termination of Employee s employment for Cause on grounds insufficient to constitute a basis of termination for Cause under this Agreement; or      (vii) The failure of the Company to promptly make any payment into escrow when so required by Section 3(f).         
   5   

Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, a termination for  Good Reason  shall not occur
unless the Employee has provided written notice to the Company of the Employee s intention to terminate employment and the specific reason(s) for such  Good Reason . Following receipt of such written notice, the Company shall have the
right, within fifteen (15) days of receiving such notice, to cure the circumstances giving rise to such  Good Reason .       Potential Change in Control  shall mean the earliest to occur of (a) the execution of an agreement or letter of intent, the consummation of the transactions described in which would result in a Change in Control,
(b) the approval by the Board of a transaction or series of transactions, the consummation of which would result in a Change in Control, or (c) the public announcement of a tender offer for the Company s voting stock, the completion
of which would result in a Change in Control;  provided,  that no such event shall be a  Potential Change in Control  unless (i) in the case of any agreement or letter of intent described in clause (a), the transaction described
therein is subsequently consummated by the Company and the other party or parties to such agreement or letter of intent and thereupon constitutes a  Change in Control , (ii) in the case of any Board-approved transaction described in
clause (b), the transaction so approved is subsequently consummated and thereupon constitutes a  Change in Control  or (iii) in the case of any tender offer described in clause (c), such tender offer is subsequently completed and such
completion thereupon constitutes a  Change in Control .       Potential Change in Control Date  shall mean the date on
which a Potential Change in Control occurs.       Retirement  shall mean Employee s actual retirement after reaching the normal
or early retirement date provided for in the Company s Retirement and Profit-Sharing Program as in effect on the date of Employee s termination of employment.      (e) Any termination of employment by the Company or by Employee shall be communicated by written notice, specify the date of termination, state the specific basis for termination and set forth in reasonable detail the
facts and circumstances of the termination in order to provide a basis for determining the entitlement to any payments under this Agreement.      (f) If within thirty (30) days after notice of termination is given, the party to whom the notice was given notifies the other party that a Dispute exists, the parties will promptly pursue resolution of such Dispute with reasonable
diligence;  provided, however,  that pending resolution of any such Dispute, the Company shall pay 75% of any amounts which would otherwise be due Employee pursuant to Section 4 if such Dispute did not exist into escrow pending resolution
of such Dispute and pay 25% of such amounts to Employee. Employee agrees to return to the Company any such amounts to which it is ultimately determined that he is not entitled. If, following a final,         
   6   

nonappealable determination that Employee is not entitled to retain all or any portion of this amount, Employee fails to
return such excess amount, then Employee shall be required to pay the full costs of recovering such amount.      4.  PAYMENTS AND BENEFITS UPON
TERMINATION .      (a) If within eighteen (18) months after a Change in Control, the Company terminates Employee s employment other
than by reason of Employee s death, Disability, Retirement or for Cause, or if Employee terminates Employee s employment for Good Reason, then the Employee shall be entitled to the following payments and benefits:      (i) The Company shall pay to Employee as compensation for services rendered, no later than five (5) business days following the date of termination,
a lump sum severance payment equal to 2.00 multiplied by the sum of: (A) Employee s Base Salary; and (B) the greater of (x) the Employee s most recently established target annual bonus under the Company s Management
Incentive Plan (the  MIP ) and (y) the average annual bonus that was paid to Employee in the three (3) fiscal years ending prior to the date of termination under the MIP. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Employee has not
completed at least three (3) full fiscal years of service with the Company prior to Employee s termination date, then the amount determined in (y) above, shall be based on the average annual bonus for the number of full fiscal years
Employee has completed.      (ii) The Company shall pay to Employee as compensation for services rendered, no later than five (5) business
days following the date of termination, a lump sum payment equal to a pro rata portion (based on the number of days elapsed during the fiscal year and/or other bonus performance period in which the termination occurs) of Employee s target bonus
under the MIP for the fiscal year and for any other partially completed bonus performance period in which the termination occurs.      (iii)
All waiting periods for the exercise of any stock options granted to Employee and all conditions or restrictions of any restricted stock granted to Employee shall terminate, and all such options shall be exercisable in full according to their terms,
and the restricted stock shall be transferred to Employee as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter.      (iv) Employee s participation
as of the date of termination in the life, medical/dental/vision and disability insurance plans and financial/tax counseling plan of the Company shall be continued on the same terms (including any cost sharing) as if Employee were an employee of the
Company (or equivalent benefits provided) until the earlier of Employee s commencement of substantially equivalent full-time employment with a new employer or twenty-four (24) months after the date of termination;  provided, however, 
that after the date of termination, Employee shall no longer be entitled to         
   7   

receive Company-paid executive physicals or, upon expiration of the applicable memberships, Company-paid airline
memberships. In the event Employee shall die before the expiration of the period during which the Company is required to continue Employee s participation in such insurance plans, the participation of Employee s surviving spouse and family
in the Company s insurance plans shall continue throughout such period.      (v) Employee may elect upon termination to purchase any
automobile then in the possession of Employee and subject to a lease of which the Company is the lessor by payment to the Company of the residual value set forth in the lease, without any increase for remaining lease payments during the term or
other lease breakage costs. Employee may elect to have any such payment deducted from any payments due the Employee hereunder.      (vi) All
payments and benefits provided under this Agreement shall be subject to applicable tax withholding.      (b) Following Employee s
termination of employment for any reason, the Company shall have the unconditional right to reduce any payments owed to Employee hereunder by the amount of any due and unpaid principal and interest on any loans by the Company to Employee and
Employee hereby agrees and consents to such right on the part of the Company.      (c) The Agreement is not intended to constitute a
 nonqualified deferred compensation plan  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event this Agreement or any compensation or benefit paid to Employee hereunder is deemed to be subject to
Section 409A of the Code, Employee and the Company agree to negotiate in good faith to adopt such amendments that are necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Code or to exempt such compensation or benefits from Section 409A. In
addition, to the extent (i) any compensation or benefits to which Employee becomes entitled under this agreement, or any agreement or plan referenced herein, in connection with Employee s termination of employment with the Company
constitute deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code and (ii) Employee is deemed at the time of such termination of employment to be a  specified  employee under Section 409A of the Code, then such
compensation or benefits shall not be made or commence until the earliest of (i) the expiration of the six (6)-month period measured from the date of Employee s  separation from service  (as such term is at the time defined in
Treasury Regulations under Section 409A of the Code with the Company; or (ii) the date of Employee s death following such separation from service; provided, however, that such deferral shall only be effected to the extent required to
avoid adverse tax treatment to Employee, including (without limitation) the additional twenty percent (20%) tax for which Employee would otherwise be liable under Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code in the absence of such deferral. During
any period compensation or benefits to Employee are deferred pursuant to the foregoing,         
   8   

Employee shall be entitled to interest on such deferral at a per annum rate equal to the highest rate of interest
applicable to six (6)-month money market accounts offered by the following institutions: Citibank N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. or Bank of America, on the date of such  separation from service.  Upon the expiration of the applicable
deferral period, any compensation or benefits which would have otherwise been paid during that period (whether in a single sum or in installments) in the absence of this paragraph shall be paid to Employee or Employee s beneficiary in one lump
sum.      (d) Any payment pursuant to this Section 4 shall be conditioned upon the Employee signing a release in the form attached as Exhibit A (the
 Release ). The Employee shall not be entitled to such payment, and no payment shall be made to the Employee, until the period for revoking the Release has expired and the Release is effective.      5.  GROSS-UP PAYMENT .      (a) If it is determined that
any Payment would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any
interest or penalties thereon, is herein referred to as an  Excise Tax ), then Employee shall be entitled to an additional payment (a  Gross-Up Payment ) in an amount that will place Employee in the same after-tax economic
position that Employee would have enjoyed if the Excise Tax had not applied to the Payment; provided, however, that if the aggregate value of the Payments is less than 110% of the product (such product, the  Excise Tax Threshold ) of three
times the Employee s  base amount  (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code), then the Employee shall not be entitled to a Gross-Up Payment and the Payments shall be reduced so their aggregate value is equal to $1.00 less
than the Excise Tax Threshold. The amount of any Gross-Up Payment shall be determined by a nationally-recognized independent public accounting firm designated by agreement between Employee and the Company (the  Accounting Firm ). No
Gross-Up Payments shall be payable hereunder if the Accounting Firm determines that (i) the Payments are not subject to an Excise Tax or (ii) the aggregate value of the payments is less than 110% of the Excise Tax Threshold.       Payment  means (i) any amount due or paid to Employee under this Agreement, (ii) any amount that is due or paid to Employee under
any plan, program or arrangement of the Company and its subsidiaries and (iii) any amount or benefit that is due or payable to Employee under this Agreement or under any plan, program or arrangement of the Company and its subsidiaries not
otherwise covered under clause (i) or (ii) hereof which must reasonably be taken into account under Section 280G of the Code in determining the amount the  parachute payments  received by Employee, including, without
limitation, any amounts which must be taken into account under Section 280G of the Code as a result of (A) the acceleration of the vesting of any option, restricted stock or other equity award, (B) the acceleration of the time at
which any payment or benefit is receivable by Employee or (C) any contingent severance or other amounts that are payable to Employee.         
   9   

(b) Subject to the provisions of Section 5(c), all determinations required under this
Section 5, including whether a Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of the Payments constituting excess parachute payments, and the amount of the Gross-Up Payment, shall be made by the Accounting Firm, which shall provide detailed
supporting calculations both to Employee and the Company within fifteen days of the date reasonably requested by Employee or the Company on which a determination under this Section 5 is necessary or advisable. The Company shall pay to Employee
the initial Gross-Up Payment within 5 days of the receipt by Employee and the Company of the determination of the Accounting Firm. If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by Employee (including by reason of reduction of the
Employee s Payments pursuant to Section 5(a)), the Company shall cause its accountants to provide Employee with an opinion that the Accounting Firm has substantial authority under the Code not to report an Excise Tax on Employee s
federal income tax return. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon Employee and the Company. If the initial Gross-Up Payment is insufficient to cover the amount of the Excise Tax that is ultimately determined to be owing by
Employee with respect to any Payment (hereinafter an  Underpayment ), the Company, after exhausting its remedies under Section 5(c) below, shall promptly pay to Employee an additional Gross-Up Payment in respect of the Underpayment.
     (c) Employee shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the
payment by the Employee of Excise Taxes in the case where Employee is determined to not be entitled to a Gross-Up Payment, or additional Excise Taxes such that the Gross-Up Payment is insufficient to cover all of the Excise Taxes. Such notice shall
be given as soon as practicable after Employee knows of such claim and shall apprise the Company of the nature of the claim and the date on which the claim is requested to be paid. Employee agrees not to pay the claim until the expiration of the
thirty (30) day period following the date on which Employee notifies the Company, or such shorter period ending on the date the Taxes with respect to such claim are due (the  Notice Period ). If the Company notifies Employee in
writing prior to the expiration of the Notice Period that it desires to contest the claim; Employee shall: (i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to the claim; (ii) take such action in connection
with the claim as the Company may reasonably request, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company and reasonably acceptable to Employee;
(iii) cooperate with the Company in good faith in contesting the claim; and (iv) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to the claim. Employee shall permit the Company to control all proceedings related to the claim
and, at its option, permit the Company to pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings, and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim. If requested by the Company, Employee         
   10   

agrees either to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner and to prosecute
such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts as the Company shall determine;  provided, however,  that, if the Company directs Employee to pay such
claim and pursue a refund, the Company shall advance the amount of such payment to Employee on an after-tax and interest-free basis (an  Advance ). The Company s control of the contest related to the claim shall be limited to the
issues related to the Excise Taxes and Employee shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issues raised by the Internal Revenue Service or other taxing authority. If the Company does not notify Employee in writing prior
to the end of the Notice Period of its desire to contest the claim or if the Internal Revenue Service ultimately prevails on its claim, the Company shall pay to Employee a Gross-Up Payment or an additional Gross-Up Payment in respect of the excess
parachute payments that are the subject of the claim, and Employee agrees to pay the amount of the Excise Tax that is the subject of the claim to the applicable taxing authority in accordance with applicable law.      (d) If, after receipt by Employee of an Advance, Employee becomes entitled to a refund with respect to the claim to which such Advance relates, Employee
shall pay the Company the amount of the refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after Taxes applicable thereto). If, after receipt by Employee of an Advance, a determination is made that Employee shall not be entitled to any
refund with respect to the claim, then the amount of the Advance shall not be required to be repaid by Employee and the amount thereof shall offset the amount of the Gross-Up Payment or additional Gross-Up Payment then owing to Employee.   
  (e) The Company shall indemnify Employee and hold Employee harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any costs, expenses, penalties, fines, interest or
other liabilities ( Losses ) incurred by Employee with respect to the exercise by the Company of any of its rights under this Section 5, including, without limitation, any Losses related to the Company s decision to contest a
claim or any imputed income to Employee resulting from any Advance or action taken on Employee s behalf by the Company hereunder. The Company shall pay all legal fees and expenses incurred under this Section 5, and shall promptly reimburse
Employee for the reasonable expenses incurred by Employee in connection with any actions taken by the Company or required to be taken by Employee hereunder. The Company shall also pay all of the fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm, including,
without limitation, the fees and expenses related to the opinion referred to in Section 5(b).      6.  GENERAL .      (a) Employee shall retain in confidence under the conditions of the Company s confidentiality agreement with Employee any proprietary or other
confidential information known to Employee concerning the Company and its business         
   11   

so long as such information is not publicly disclosed and disclosure is not required by an order of any governmental body
or court. If required, Employee shall return to the Company any memoranda, documents or other materials proprietary to the Company.      (b)
While employed by the Company and following the termination of such employment after a Change in Control for a period of two (2) years, Employee shall not, whether for Employee s own account or for the account of any other individual,
partnership, firm, corporation or other business organization, intentionally solicit, endeavor to entice away from the Company or a subsidiary of the Company (each, a  Protected Party ), or otherwise interfere with the relationship of a
Protected Party with, any person who is employed by a Protected Party or any person or entity who is, or was within the then most recent twelve (12) month period, a customer or client of a Protected Party.      Employee acknowledges that a breach of any of the covenants contained in this Section 6(b) may result in material irreparable injury to the Company
for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it may not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of such a breach, any payments remaining under the terms of this Agreement shall cease and the Company
may be entitled to obtain a temporary restraining order and/or a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining Employee from engaging in activities prohibited by this Section 6(b) or such other relief as may be required to specifically
enforce any of the covenants in this Section 6(b). Employee agrees to and hereby does submit to  in personam  jurisdiction before each and every such court in the State of California, County of Santa Clara, for that purpose. This
Section 6(b) shall survive any termination of this Agreement.      (c) If litigation is brought by Employee to enforce or interpret any
provision contained in this Agreement, the Company shall indemnify Employee for Employee s reasonable attorney s fees and disbursements incurred in such litigation and pay prejudgment interest on any money judgment obtained by Employee
calculated at the prime rate of interest in effect from time to time at the Bank of America, San Francisco, from the date that payment should have been made under the Agreement, provided that Employee shall not have been found by the court in which
such litigation is pending to have had no cause in bringing the action, or to have acted in bad faith, which finding must be final with the time to appeal therefrom having expired and no appeal having been taken.      (d) Except as provided in Section 4, the Company s obligation to pay to Employee the compensation and to make the arrangements provided in this
Agreement shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including, without limitation, any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the Company may have against Employee or anyone else. All
amounts payable by the Company hereunder shall be paid without notice or demand. Subject to Section 4(a)(iv), Employee shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment.
        
   12   

(e) The Company shall require any successor, whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger,
consolidation or otherwise, to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, by written agreement to expressly assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be
required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.      (f) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by
Employee s heirs, successors and assigns. If Employee should die while any amounts would still be payable to Employee hereunder if Employee had continued to live, all such amounts shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to
Employee s heirs, successors and assigns.      (g) For the purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for
in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:       
    or to such other address as either party furnishes to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that
notices of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.      (h) This Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement between
Employee and the Company concerning the subject matter of this Agreement.      (i) The validity, interpretation, construction and performance
of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without giving effect to the provisions, principles or policies thereof relating to choice or conflict of laws. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this
Agreement in any circumstance shall not affect the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other circumstance or the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, and, except to the extent such provision is invalid
or unenforceable, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. Any provision in this Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or
unenforceability without invalidating or affecting the remaining provisions hereof in such jurisdiction, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other
jurisdiction. This Section 6(i) shall survive any termination of this Agreement.         
   13   

(j) This Agreement may be amended or terminated by the Company pursuant to a resolution adopted by the
Board at any time prior to a Potential Change in Control Date. After a Change in Control Date or a Potential Change in Control Date, this Agreement may only be amended or terminated in writing with the consent of Employee.      (k) No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, express or implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either party
which are not expressly set forth in this Agreement and this Agreement shall supersede all prior agreements, negotiations, correspondence, undertakings and communications of the parties, oral or written, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties acknowledge that they have read and understand the terms of this Agreement and have executed this
Agreement to be effective as of                       .       

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC.  

EMPLOYEE   

By:   

Title:  

14   

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.21>
 6
 dex1021.htm
 DESCRIPTION OF CERTAIN COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS

Description of Certain Compensatory Arrangements 

Exhibit 10.21        Description of Certain Compensatory Arrangements        Executive Compensation       On November 17, 2006, the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Board ) of Varian Medical
Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) approved new compensation arrangements for the Company s Principal Executive Officer, Principal Financial Officer, and the other named executive officers (determined by reference to the Company s
2006 proxy statement dated December 29, 2005), as well as John W. Kuo, the Company s Corporate Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. The Board approved the compensation arrangement for the Company s Principal
Executive Officer as well. The compensation for Richard M. Levy, Chairman of the Board, is described below under  Compensation for Levy as a Non-Executive Employee.  Set forth below are the annual base salaries for fiscal year 2007:

Timothy E. Guertin,         Corporate President and Chief Executive Officer   
      
  $  
  800,000   
 
    Elisha W. Finney,         Corporate Senior Vice President, Finance and         Chief Financial Officer   
      
  $  
  475,000   
 
    Robert H. Kluge,         Corporate Vice President and President, X-ray Products   
      
  $  
  377,000   
 
    John W. Kuo,         Corporate Vice President, General Counsel and         Corporate Secretary   
      
  $  
  330,000   
 
    Dow R. Wilson,         Corporate Executive Vice President and         President, Oncology Systems   
      
  $  
  560,000   
    On November 30, 2006, the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of
Directors (the  Board of Directors ) of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) set the performance goals for fiscal year 2007 under the Company s Management Incentive Plan ( MIP ) for the named executive
officers and certain other executives. In the case of Timothy E. Guertin, Elisha W. Finney and John W. Kuo, payments under the MIP will be based 75% on a percentage growth of earnings before interest and taxes ( EBIT ) for the Company as a
whole and 25% on growth in revenue for the Company as a whole. In the case of Dow R. Wilson, payment under the MIP will be based 37.5% on the percentage growth in EBIT for the Company as a whole, 12.5% on growth in revenue for the Company as a
whole, 37.5% on the percentage growth in EBIT for the Oncology Systems business segment and 12.5% on growth in revenue for the Oncology Systems business segment. In the case of Robert H. Kluge, payment under the MIP will be based 37.5% on the
percentage growth in EBIT for the Company as a whole, 12.5% on growth in revenue for the Company as a whole, 37.5% on the percentage growth in EBIT for the X-ray Products business segment and 12.5% on growth in revenues for the X-ray Products
business segment. Payment under the MIP may vary from $0 to 200% of target based upon achievement under these performance goals.   

Set forth below are the percentages of base salary each of these individuals would receive if the target
and maximum levels under the MIP are achieved:       
    Compensation of Directors       Annual Cash Compensation.  Each non-employee director receives an annual retainer of $45,000, except that the lead director receives an annual
retainer of $60,000. The chairs of the Compensation and Management Development Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee also receive an additional $10,000 annual retainer for serving in these positions, and the chair of the
Audit Committee receives an additional $15,000. Each non-employee director also receives $2,000 for each Board meeting attended ($1,000 if the Board meeting was an in-person meeting and the director attended by telephone or video conference), and
$1,500 for each committee meeting attended ($750 if the committee meeting was an in-person meeting and the director attended by telephone or video conference). Directors who are employees receive no compensation for their services as directors. All
directors, however, receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses of the directors  and the directors  spouses (including tax reimbursement for spousal expenses) associated with attending Board and committee meetings and for expenses
related to directors  continuing education programs. Directors may convert their annual retainers into options to purchase shares of the Company s common stock at the rate of $1 cash to $4 of stock options, at an exercise price equal to
the fair market value of the common stock on the grant date, which is the date that the cash compensation otherwise would have been paid. These options are immediately exercisable and expire 10 years after the grant date unless terminated earlier.
Directors may alternatively elect to defer their retainer and/or meeting fees under the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan.       Equity Compensation . Each new non-employee director receives an initial grant of non-qualified stock options for 16,000 shares of common stock and a grant of 4,000 Deferred Stock Units. Each continuing non-employee director receives
an annual grant of non-qualified stock options for 8,000 shares of common stock and a grant of 2,000 Deferred Stock Units.       Compensation
for Levy as a Non-Executive Employee       On November 17, 2006, the Board also approved the following compensation arrangement for
Dr. Levy in his role as a non-executive employee of the Company, to be effective as of the close of business on February 16, 2007:       

provision of a leased office space at a fair market value;         

provision of a part-time administrator; and         

eligibility for the Corporation s non-executive employee health and welfare benefit plans, subject to his election and contributions towards those benefit plans.
       Dr. Levy will be ineligible to participate in the Company s Management Incentive Plan and in any executive
perquisite programs, including the Executive Car Program and reimbursement for executive physicals. He will also be ineligible for equity awards and for any supplemental retirement contributions in excess of the Company s matching contributions
under the Varian Medical Systems, Inc. Retirement Plan (the Company s 401(k) Plan).      In his role as a non-executive employee of
the Company (and in addition to his responsibilities as Chairman of the Board), Dr. Levy provides on-going advice and counsel to the management of the Company on strategic business and technological matters, and has involvement with investor
groups and key customers.   

</EX-10.21>

<EX-21>
 7
 dex21.htm
 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

List of Subsidiaries 

EXHIBIT 21        VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC.        LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES        

Name    
      
     State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation     

Varian Associates Limited   
      
  CA, USA   

Varian BioSynergy, Inc.   
      
  DE, USA   

Varian Medical Systems Latin America, Ltd.   
      
  DE, USA   

Varian Oncology Systems China, Ltd.   
      
  DE, USA   

Varian Medical Systems India Pvt. Ltd.   
      
  DE, USA   

Varian Medical Systems Pacific, Inc.   
      
  DE, USA   

Varian Medical Systems Canada Holdings, Inc.   
      
  DE, USA   

Varian Medical Systems Technologies, Inc.   
      
  DE, USA   

Page Mill Corporation   
      
  MA, USA   

Mansfield Insurance Company   
      
  VT, USA   

Varian Medical Systems Australasia Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   

Varian Medical Systems Gesellschaft m.b.H.   
      
  Austria   

Varian Medical Systems Belgium N.V.   
      
  Belgium   

Varian Medical Systems Brasil Limitada   
      
  Brazil   

Varian Medical Systems Canada, Inc.   
      
  Canada   

Varian Medical Systems Beijing Co. Ltd.   
      
  China   

Varian Medical Systems Scandinavia AS   
      
  Denmark   

Varian Medical Systems Finland OY   
      
  Finland   

Varian Medical France   
      
  France   

Varian Medical Systems Deutschland G.m.b.H.   
      
  Germany   

Varian Medical Systems Haan G.m.b.H.   
      
  Germany   

Varian Medical Systems Deutschland Holdings G.m.b.H.   
      
  Germany   

Varian Medical Systems Italia S.p.A.   
      
  Italy   

Varian ME Medical Systems K.K.   
      
  Japan   

Varian Medical Systems Mauritius Ltd.   
      
  Mauritius   

Varian FSC B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   

Varian Medical Systems Nederland B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   

Varian Medical Systems Iberica S.L.   
      
  Spain   

Varian Medical Systems International A.G.   
      
  Switzerland   

Varian Medical Systems Imaging Laboratory Gmgh   
      
  Switzerland   

Varian Medical Systems UK Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   

Varian TVT Limited (not active)   
      
  United Kingdom   

Varian Philippines, Ltd. (not active)   
      
  USA, DE   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 8
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

EXHIBIT 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No. 333-130001, No. 333-123778, No. 333-75531, No. 333-57006, No. 333-57008, No. 333-57010, No. 333-57012) of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. of our report dated December 11, 2006,
relating to the financial statements and the financial statement schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.        / S / 
P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS  LLP       San Jose, California      December 11, 2006   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 dex311.htm
 CEO CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)

CEO Certification Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER        PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)
       AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Timothy E. Guertin, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. (the  Registrant          

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonable likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Dated: December 11, 2006  

/ S /     T IMOTHY  E.
G UERTIN             

Timothy E. Guertin   

President and Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 dex312.htm
 CFO CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)

CFO Certification Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER        PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)
       AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Elisha W. Finney, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. (the  Registrant          

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonable likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Dated: December 11, 2006  

/ S /     E LISHA  W.
F INNEY             

Elisha W. Finney   

Senior Vice President, Finance and       Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 11
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350

Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION        PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the accompanying Annual Report of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. (the  Company ), on Form
10-K for the year ended September 29, 2006 (the  Report ), I, Timothy E. Guertin, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 that:       

(1)  
  the Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

Dated: December 11, 2006  

/ S /     T IMOTHY  E.
G UERTIN             

Timothy E. Guertin   

President and Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 12
 dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350

Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION        PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the accompanying Annual Report of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. (the  Company ), on Form
10-K for the year ended September 29, 2006 (the  Report ), I, Elisha W. Finney, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002 that:       

(1)  
  the Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

Dated: December 11, 2006  

/ S /     E LISHA  W.
F INNEY             

Elisha W. Finney   

Senior Vice President, Finance and       Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-32.2>

