<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061214_10-K_edgar_data_13606_0000950153-06-003017_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>981681</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>296238</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4871</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>432212</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>60</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>11</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950153-06-003017.hdr.sgml : 20061214
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061214172428
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950153-06-003017
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		14
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061214
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061214

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000013606
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				350905052
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			ID
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1003

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-04817
		FILM NUMBER:		061278068

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3601 E UNIVERSITY DRIVE
		CITY:			PHOENIX
		STATE:			AZ
		ZIP:			85034
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6024371520

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3601 E UNIVERSITY DRIVE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 475
		CITY:			PHOENIX
		STATE:			AZ
		ZIP:			85034

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BOWMAR INSTRUMENT CORP/IN/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980917

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BOMAR INSTRUMENT CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980917

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BOWMAR INSTRUMENT CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FAGpSJ6Fuf56P8myKy3sFaj2nXrHDRB1/7pQw0N4PKWS6uKqGie4z5wIUJnfKfaD
 aSJFi1MP9+s5Gc0gt+jxSg==

 0000950153-06-003017.txt : 20061214

10-K
 1
 p73257e10vk.htm
 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form 10-K 

For the Fiscal Year Ended: September 30, 2006 

OR 

For the transition period from                        to                         . 

Commission File Number 1-4817 

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 

Common Stock,  
stated value $.10 per share

The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes
    No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 of 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes
    No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check One):

Large Accelerated filer
        
Accelerated filer          Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Act). Yes     No    

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates
of the registrant was approximately $112,289,000 as of December 12, 2006, based upon the sale price
on the NASDAQ Global Market reported for such date. Shares of common stock held by each officer
and director and by each person who owns 5% or more of the outstanding common stock have been
excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate
status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes.

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant s common stock on December 12, 2006 was
24,668,340.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

Portions of the registrant s definitive Proxy Statement prepared in connection with the 2007 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on March 7, 2007 are incorporated by reference into PART III,
Items 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND ASSOCIATED RISKS  

3 

PART I 

4  

ITEM 1

BUSINESS

4 

ITEM 1A

RISK FACTORS

11 

ITEM 1B

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

20 

ITEM 2

PROPERTIES

20 

ITEM 3

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

21 

ITEM 4

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

22 

OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

22 

PART II 

23  

ITEM 5

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

23 

ITEM 6

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

24 

ITEM 7

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

25 

ITEM 7A

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

39 

ITEM 8

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

40 

ITEM 9

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

40 

ITEM 9A

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

40 

ITEM 9B

OTHER INFORMATION

41 

PART III 

42  

ITEM 10

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

42 

ITEM 11

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

42 

ITEM 12

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

42 

ITEM 13

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

43 

ITEM 14

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

43 

PART IV 

44  

ITEM 15

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

44 

SIGNATURES 

48 

EX-4.3    
     EX-10.13    
     EX-10.14    
     EX-10.26    
     EX-10.27    
     EX-21.1    
     EX-23.1    
     EX-31.1    
     EX-31.2    
     EX-32.1    
     EX-32.2    

2   

Table of Contents   

NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND ASSOCIATED RISKS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ), including the  Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  and documents incorporated herein by reference
contain  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, provides a  safe harbor  for such
forward-looking statements. The words  believe,   expect,   estimate,   anticipate,   intend, 
 may,   might,   will,   would,   could,   project  and  predict , or similar words and phrases
regarding expectations, generally identify forward-looking statements.

We intend to qualify both our written or oral forward-looking statements made from time to time in
connection with filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) or in public news
releases for protection under the safe harbors discussed above. Forward-looking statements are
based largely on management s expectations and because they are estimates, such statements are
inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified and
are beyond our control. Future events and actual results could differ materially from those set
forth in, contemplated by, or underlying the forward-looking statements, each of which speaks only
as of the date the statement is made. Statements in this Form 10-K, including those set forth in
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the sections entitled  Business  and
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  and under
the subheading entitled  Risk Factors,  describe factors that could contribute to or cause actual
results to differ materially from our expectations. Some factors that could cause actual results
to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements include, but are not
limited to:

the loss of one or more principal customers or delays or cancellations of orders due to
the impact of adverse business conditions on one or more principle customers; 

the failure of customers to accept our anti-tamper packaging or the development of
improved anti-tamper packaging by competitors; 

the inability to procure required components and raw materials; 

any downturn in the semiconductor, electronics, home appliance, telecommunications or
other markets in which we operate, which could cause a decline in selling unit prices; 

reductions in military spending or changes in the acquisition requirements for military
products; 

the ability to locate appropriate acquisition candidates, negotiate an appropriate
purchase price, and integrate into our business the people, operations, and products from
acquired businesses; 

the inability to develop, introduce and sell new products or the inability to develop
new manufacturing technologies; 

changes or restrictions in the practices, rules and regulations relating to sales in
international markets; and 

a negative outcome in our current litigation or additional litigation complaints. 

In addition, new factors, other than those identified in this Form 10-K, may emerge from time to
time and it is not possible for management to predict all of these factors, nor can it assess the
impact of each factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors,
may cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements. We do not
undertake, and we specifically disclaim, any obligation to publicly update or review any
forward-looking statement contained in this Form 10-K or in any document incorporated herein by
reference, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required
by applicable law.

3 

Table of Contents   

PART I 

ITEM 1 BUSINESS

GENERAL

We design, develop and manufacture innovative microelectronic and display components and systems
for inclusion in high technology products for military, industrial and commercial markets. Our
microelectronic solutions include advanced semiconductor and state of the art multi-chip packaging,
as well as our proprietary process for applying anti-tamper protection to mission critical
semiconductor components in military applications. Our display solutions include enhanced flat
panel display products, interface devices and electromechanical assemblies. Our customers, which
include military prime contractors in the United States and Europe as well as commercial original
equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ), outsource many of their microelectronic and display components
and systems to us as a result of the combination of our design, development and manufacturing
expertise.

We are an Indiana corporation, originally incorporated in 1951 as Bowmar Instrument Corporation
( Bowmar ). On October 26, 1998, Bowmar merged with Electronic Designs, Inc. ( EDI ). In
connection with the merger, Bowmar changed its name to White Electronic Designs Corporation. At
the time of the merger, Bowmar was a manufacturer of high reliability electronic components and
interface and mechanical devices, mainly for military applications. EDI was a manufacturer of
commercial memory products for the telecommunications and data communications markets and also had
a small  ruggedized  (manufactured to perform in harsh environments) display business serving the
military and industrial market. The merger provided us with a diversified platform to expand our
product offerings within both the military and commercial markets. In order to complement our
military/industrial display business, we acquired Panelview, Inc. ( Panelview ) in January 2001.
Panelview was a designer and manufacturer of enhanced commercial flat panel display products.
Following the acquisition, we consolidated our display operations into our Panelview subsidiary.
In January 2003, we acquired Interface Data Systems, Inc. ( IDS ), a designer and manufacturer of
membrane keypads, flexible circuits, sensors, control panels and handheld and desktop electronic
devices. This acquisition allowed us to expand our interface device product offerings and enhance
our subsystem solutions. In addition, with IDS  design and manufacturing capabilities, we can
offer fully integrated system level solutions. In September 2003, we completed our consolidation
of manufacturing operations for our commercial memory microelectronic products by moving operations
from our former facility in Marlborough, Massachusetts to our IDS facility in Phoenix, Arizona. In
October 2004, we made the decision to consolidate our two Phoenix locations and sell the IDS
facility and land, which is actively being marketed for sale. We completed the consolidation in
the second quarter of fiscal 2006.

We are headquartered in Phoenix, Arizona. Our mailing address is 3601 E. University Drive,
Phoenix, Arizona, 85034, and our telephone number at that location is (602) 437-1520. Our website,
which contains links to our financial information and our filings with the SEC, is
 www.wedc.com . Unless otherwise indicated in this Form 10-K,  White Electronic Designs, 
 us,   we,   our,   the Company  and similar terms refer to White Electronic Designs Corporation
and its subsidiaries as a whole.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

We have two business segments, each of which requires different design and manufacturing resources
and generally serves customers in different markets. The microelectronic segment accounted for
approximately 55% of our total sales in fiscal 2006, while the display segment accounted for
approximately 45% of our total sales in fiscal 2006. Financial information for our business
segments is disclosed in Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

MICROELECTRONIC SEGMENT

Our microelectronic segment manufactures semiconductor multi-chip packaged products primarily for
memory storage. Our products in the microelectronic segment are generally sold to military prime
contractors and commercial OEMs in the aerospace, defense, military equipment, computer networking
and telecommunication/ datacommunication industries. Certain industries require these
semiconductor parts to pass specific qualifications due to the application requirements for those
products. A commercial grade product generally meets the standard
of industries such as the consumer electronic, computer networking and
telecommunication/datacommunication

4 

Table of Contents   

industries. Higher performing products, also known as
high-reliability products, are needed in certain industries, such as aerospace, defense, and
military equipment and systems, and are often referred to as  military  products. Military
products are designed to meet more stringent standards and are resistant to adverse conditions,
such as high and low temperature extremes. High-reliability products can also be used in
commercial and industrial applications where products are exposed to harsh conditions.

We address both military and commercial market opportunities with advanced semiconductor packaging
and microelectronic modules and assemblies. We believe our microelectronic products generally
provide our customers with the following advantages over standard technology:

significant space savings and size advantages; 

improved power and electrical performance; and 

improved component compatibility. 

In addition, our microelectronic segment includes our anti-tamper security processing for mission
critical semiconductor components in military applications. We are one of a limited number of
licensees for anti-tamper technology for microelectronic products and have developed a proprietary
process for applying anti-tamper protection for such applications. We believe our process offers
greater scalability and higher yields than those of our competitors.

The following table describes the key products that we sell in the microelectronic segment and some
of their applications:

PRODUCT  
       
      SAMPLE APPLICATION  

Military/Industrial:  

System on a substrate

Counter-measure suite of the F-16
Fighting Falcon 

Microprocessor modules

Air-to-air missiles, such as the Sidewinder AIM-9X and AIM-120 AMRAAM 

Embedded computers used in the Apache Helicopter, Advanced Amphibious Assault Vehicle and the Abrams M1A2 Tank 

Memory modules

Air-to-air missiles, such as the Sidewinder AIM-9X and AIM-120 AMRAAM 

Embedded computers used in the F-22 Raptor and Patriot PAC-3 Missile System 

Radar used in the F/A-18 Hornet 

Joint Strike Fighter, F-35 

European Typhoon Fighter Aircraft (EFA) 

Anti-tamper technology

Various military programs 

Commercial:  

Multi-chip package

Telephone, data, and video communications 

SDRAM/DDR II memory modules

High-end servers for networking and ERP systems 

Wireless CDMA base stations 

Flash/SRAM memory PC card

Linear Flash PCMCIA Cards 

Microelectronic system boards

Home entertainment consoles 

Hotel entertainment systems 

Compact Flash

Medical, embedded computing 

5 

Table of Contents   

Backlog 

The backlog for microelectronic products, represented by firm customer purchase orders, was
approximately $33.4 million and $33.1 million at the end of fiscal years 2006 and 2005,
respectively. While overall backlog has not changed significantly, we had higher military orders
as we have seen a return to more traditional levels of military spending since the second half of
fiscal 2005, which offset a decrease in commercial orders. Approximately 66% of the segment s
fiscal year-end 2005 backlog was shipped during fiscal 2006 with the remaining backlog scheduled
for shipment in fiscal 2007 or beyond. Approximately 69% of the fiscal 2006 year-end backlog is
planned for shipment during fiscal 2007 with the remaining backlog scheduled for shipment in fiscal
2008 and beyond. The backlog after fiscal 2007 is a result of customer scheduling requirements for
high-reliability products and not constraints on our capacity.

Competition 

In the microelectronic product markets, we compete primarily based on performance, quality,
durability and price. We have a number of present and potential competitors, including customers,
many of which have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than
we do.

Our principal competitors in the military microelectronic product markets are divisions of Aeroflex
Corporation, Austin Semiconductor and Teledyne Microelectronics Group. Our principal competitors
in the commercial microelectronic product markets are Simple Technology, Smart Module Technology,
Crucial Technology, a division of Micron Semiconductor and Samsung Memory Modules, a division of
Samsung. We also compete with manufacturers that provide single chip microelectronic products.

DISPLAY SEGMENT

The display segment serves a number of markets with products and solutions that are incorporated
into tablet PCs, global positioning systems, automated teller machines, point-of-service ( POS )
order confirmation displays, home appliances, consumer electronics, medical devices, outdoor
displays, military and commercial avionics and various other military applications. Our products
in the display segment are generally sold to the high-end industrial markets, including commercial
avionics. Our display solutions include enhanced viewing liquid crystal flat panel display
products, interface devices and electromechanical assemblies. Enhanced viewing liquid crystal
displays and sunlight readable displays can be used in either ruggedized or commercial
applications. Ruggedized displays are manufactured to perform in harsh environmental conditions,
while commercial display products offer greater viewing performance than off-the-shelf displays but
are not designed for harsh environmental conditions. Interface devices include electromechanical
components and instrument packages that can consist of ruggedized keyboards, aircraft trim panels,
rotating devices, mechanical packages, membrane keypads, silver flexible circuits, graphic
overlays, control panels and keypad/controller assemblies.

We enhance standard flat panel displays using patented, proprietary and commercially available
technology. We believe our enhanced display products offer several benefits, including:

Increased viewability (anywhere viewable); increased visibility in bright light conditions (Max-Vu  

Increased visibility in bright light conditions; super bright low reflectance (SBLR  

Ability to withstand heavy vibration and extreme temperatures; and 

Wider viewing angles. 

Additionally, we combine various display, keyboard, and other components and their supporting
electronics into fully integrated solutions for our customers.

6 

Table of Contents   

The following table describes key products that we sell in the display segment and some of their
applications:

PRODUCT  

SAMPLE APPLICATION  

Military/Industrial:  

Mechanical components

Impulse counters, altitude counters, rounds counters, logicator F-16 trim panel 

Super bright low reflectance
technology (SBLR) & Max-Vu  technology

Ground based vehicles, such as the Abrams M1A2 Tank 

Aircraft displays, such as the Apache 

Helicopter and the F-16 Fighting Falcon 

Cockpit instrumentation; marine navigation 

Global positioning systems (GPS) 

Commercial:  

Max-Vu  process technology

Mobile Personal Computers ( PC ), Tablet PCs 

Display module assembly

Patient monitors 

Optically enhanced displays

Drive-thru kiosks; medical instruments; Point-of-Service (POS) terminals; notebook PCs; automotive test equipment 

Membrane keypads

Home appliances 

Keypad modules

Hand-held barcode applications 

Backlog 

The display segment backlog, represented by firm customer purchase orders, was approximately $19.2
million and $20.2 million at the end of fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively. The decrease
from the previous year is attributable to the timing of orders and
shipments as we shipped $2.9
million more in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005.
Approximately 78% of this segment s fiscal 2005 year-end backlog was shipped during fiscal 2006
while the remaining backlog is scheduled for shipment in fiscal 2007 and beyond. Approximately 91%
of the fiscal 2006 year-end backlog is expected to be shipped during fiscal 2007, with the
remaining backlog scheduled for shipment in fiscal 2008 and beyond. The backlog after fiscal 2007
is a result of customer scheduling requirements for display and military mechanical products and
not constraints on our capacity.

Competition 

The principal elements of competition among display product suppliers are display performance
(e.g., brightness, color capabilities, contrast and viewing angle), size and weight, design
flexibility, power usage, durability, ruggedness and cost. While the primary competition for the
active matrix liquid crystal display ( AMLCD ) is currently cathode ray tube displays, our products
compete with other flat panel displays including gas plasma and electro-luminescent displays. We
believe that price, product reliability and the ability to meet delivery schedules
are key competitive factors. In all phases of our operations, we compete primarily based on
performance, quality, durability and price. We have a number of present and potential competitors,
including customers, many of which have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and
other resources than we do.

7 

Table of Contents   

In both the military and commercial markets for the display segment, we compete with numerous
companies, such as Global Display Solutions, Planar Systems, and Polarvision, a division of E. I.
Du Pont De Nemours   Co. We also experience significant competition from the internal capabilities
of our current and potential customers. Commercial customers may also choose to use standard
commercially available display products rather than our enhanced display products. The marketplace
for commercial interface components is highly fragmented with numerous companies offering similar
products, such as Molex and Durell, as well as competition from companies in Asia.

SALES, MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

We use an integrated sales approach to closely manage relationships at multiple levels of the
customer s organization, including management, engineering and purchasing personnel. This approach
involves a team consisting of a senior executive, a business development specialist, and members of
our engineering department. Our sales team consists of approximately
35 people, including 7 sales
managers. Our use of experienced engineering personnel as part of the sales effort enables close
technical collaboration with our customers during the design and qualification phase of new
equipment. We believe that this is critical to the incorporation of our products into our
customers  equipment. Some of our executive officers are actively involved in key aspects of our
relationships with our major customers and work closely with our customers  senior management. We
also use manufacturers  representatives, independent sales representatives and distributors as
needed.

The military sales cycle, and certain commercial product sales, tends to be long in nature with a
protracted design phase. Once a product is designed into a military system, it is typically
sole-sourced to a particular supplier. Due to the extensive qualification process and potential
redesign required for using an alternative source, customers are reluctant to change the incumbent
supplier. Our business is affected by certain seasonality factors. Our membrane keypad business
is subject to seasonal fluctuations relating to home appliance sales. Additionally, our military
orders tend to follow the government s fiscal year, which is consistent with ours, with lower
orders in the first half of the fiscal year and higher orders in the second half of the fiscal
year.

Our products are sold with a warranty which differs in terms and conditions depending on the
product and customer. Our products may be subject to repair or replacement during the warranty
period.

PRINCIPAL CUSTOMERS

Our customers consist mainly of military prime contractors and commercial OEMs, and the contract
manufacturers who work for them, in the United States, Europe and Asia. Our segments have common
customers, mainly in the aerospace defense industry. Sales to military customers accounted for
approximately $52.3 million, or 48%, of our net sales in fiscal 2006 as compared to approximately
$49.3 million, or 42%, in fiscal 2005. Sales to our commercial customers accounted for
approximately $56.6 million, or 52%, of our net sales in fiscal 2006, as compared to approximately
$67.7 million, or 58%, in fiscal 2005.

In fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our total net sales. In
fiscal 2006, Hewlett Packard Company accounted for 18% of display segment net sales, while On
Command Corporation accounted for 12% of microelectronic segment net sales. In fiscal 2005, NCR
Corporation accounted for 18% of display segment net sales, while On Command Corporation accounted
for 15% of microelectronic net sales. In fiscal 2004, Whirlpool Corporation accounted for 12% of
display segment net sales. No one customer accounted for more than 10% of microelectronic net
sales in fiscal 2004.

Total foreign sales for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 were approximately $31.1 million, $20.7 million
and $18.4 million, respectively. Additional information concerning sales by geographic area can be
found in Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

RESEARCH, ENGINEERING AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

Our research and development efforts primarily involve engineering and design relating to:

developing new products; 

improving existing products; 

8 

Table of Contents   

adapting existing products to new applications; and 

developing prototype components for specific programs. 

Some of our product development costs are recoverable under contractual arrangements; however, the
majority of these costs are self-funded. Our research and development expenditures approximated
$6.6 million, $5.6 million and $6.0 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We
believe that strategic investment in process technology and product development is essential for us
to remain competitive in the markets we serve. We are committed to maintaining appropriate levels
of expenditures for product development.

REGULATORY MATTERS

Government Contracting Regulations 

A significant portion of our business is derived from subcontracts with prime contractors of the
United States government. As a United States government subcontractor, we are subject to federal
contracting regulations. Our extensive experience in the defense industry enables us to handle the
strict requirements that accompany these contracts.

Under federal contracting regulations, the United States government is entitled to examine all of
our cost records with respect to certain negotiated contracts or contract modifications for three
years after final payment on such contracts to determine whether we furnished complete, accurate,
and current cost or pricing data in connection with the negotiation of the price of the contract or
modification. The United States government also has the right after final payment to seek a
downward adjustment to the price of a contract or modification if it determines that the contractor
failed to disclose complete, accurate and current data. Historically, we have not experienced any
such downward adjustments.

In addition, the Federal Acquisition Regulations govern the allowability of costs incurred by us in
the performance of United States government contracts to the extent that such costs are included in
its proposals or are allocated to United States government contracts during performance of those
contracts.

Our subcontracts provide that they may be terminated at the convenience of the United States
government. Upon such termination, the contractor is normally entitled to receive the purchase
price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs incurred and allocable to the
contract, and an allowance for profit on the allowable costs incurred or adjustment for loss if
completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. In addition, our subcontracts provide for
termination for default if we fail to perform or breach a material obligation of a subcontract. In
the event of a termination for default, the customer may have the unilateral right at any time to
require us to return unliquidated progress payments pending final resolution of the propriety of
the termination for default. We may also have to pay the excess, if any, of the cost of purchasing
a substitute item from a third party. If the customer has suffered other ascertainable damages as
a result of a sustained default, the customer could demand payment from us of such damages.
Historically, we have not experienced any such terminations.

In connection with our United States government business, we are also subject to government
investigations of our policies, procedures, and internal controls for compliance with procurement
regulations and applicable laws. We may be subject to downward contract price adjustments, refund
obligations or civil and criminal penalties. In certain circumstances in which a contractor has
not complied with the terms of a contract or with regulations or statutes, the contractor might be
debarred or suspended from obtaining future contracts for a specified period of time. Any such
suspension or debarment would have a material adverse effect on our business.

It is our policy to cooperate with the government in any investigations of which we have knowledge,
but the outcome of any such government investigations cannot be predicted with certainty. We
believe we have complied in all material respects with applicable government requirements.

Environmental Protection 

Our compliance with federal, state and local laws or regulations, which govern the discharge of
materials into the environment, has not had a material adverse effect upon our capital
expenditures, earnings or competitive position within our markets.

9 

Table of Contents   

International Trade Regulations 

We must comply with laws concerning the export of material used exclusively for military purposes.
The export of these types of materials is covered under International Traffic in Arms Regulations
( ITAR ) laws. We applied for and received a four year license in December 2003 that allows us to
export materials covered under these regulations.

RAW MATERIALS

The most significant raw materials that we purchase for our operations are memory devices in wafer,
die and component forms for our microelectronic segment and AMLCDs for our display segment. We are
highly dependent on one static random access memory ( SRAM ) and one dynamic random access memory
( DRAM ) semiconductor manufacturer for memory devices and one package manufacturer of ceramic
packages for military components. We are also highly dependent on certain suppliers for our AMLCDs
and DRAM for particular customers due to their product specifications. Despite the risks
associated with purchasing from single sources, or from a limited number of sources, we have made
the strategic decision to select single source or limited source suppliers in order to obtain lower
pricing, receive more timely delivery and maintain quality control. We buy the same types of
material components typically used in the commercial commodity markets which we enhance through
packaging, testing, and other processes. As a result, we have to monitor the supply and demand and
proactively plan our purchases. We have long-standing strategic relationships with world class
semiconductor and display suppliers. Because of these capabilities and relationships, we believe
we can continue to meet our customers  requirements. In cases where unanticipated customer demand
or supply shortages occur, we attempt to arrange, through strategic relationships with our
semiconductor suppliers, for alternative sources of supply, where available, or defer planned
production to meet anticipated availability of critical components or materials. We do not have
specific long-term contractual arrangements with our vendors but believe we have good relationships
with them.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop
and maintain our competitive position. The products we sell from both our microelectronic segment
and our display segment require a large amount of engineering design and manufacturing expertise.
The majority of these technological capabilities, however, are not protected by patents and
licenses. We rely on the expertise of our employees and our learned experiences in both the design
and manufacture of our products. It is possible, and it has occurred in the past, that a
competitor may also learn to design and produce products with similar performance abilities as our
products. As competitors do so, it may result in increased competition and a reduction of sales
for our products.

Our trade secret protection for our technology, including our process for applying anti-tamper
protection to microelectronic products, is based in part on confidentiality agreements that we
enter into with our employees, consultants and other third parties. However, these parties may
breach these agreements, and since many agreements are made with companies much larger than us, we
may not have adequate financial resources to adequately enforce our rights. Others may also come
to know about or determine our trade secrets. In addition, the laws of certain territories in
which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights
to the same extent as the laws of the United States.

We were issued one new patent (patent #7,087,847) from the United States Patent and Trademark
Office during fiscal 2006 for our Elastomer Keypad and Bezel technology. This patent expires in
November 2023. We have applied for six other patents, three of which relate to our anti-tamper
manufacturing process, which are currently under review.

EMPLOYEES

As of November 30, 2006, we had approximately 424 employees, including 35 in sales, 12 in
marketing, 56 in research, development and engineering, 268 in manufacturing and quality assurance,
and 53 in general and administrative. Approximately 32 of our employees in the display segment are
employed pursuant to a three year collective bargaining agreement covering workers at our Fort
Wayne, Indiana facility that was ratified on November 24, 2004. We believe our relationship with
our employees is good.

10 

Table of Contents   

FINANCIAL INFORMATION BY GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT

See Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information relating to
foreign sales by geographic segment.

ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS

We are dependent on sales to defense-related companies for a large portion of our net sales and
profits, and changes in military spending levels and patterns could negatively affect us.  

Our current orders from defense-related companies account for a material portion of our overall net
sales and military spending levels depend on factors that are outside of our control. Reductions
or changes in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profits.

For instance, government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of
Congressional appropriations. Congress typically appropriates funds for a given program on a
fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at
the beginning of a major program, a contract is typically only partially funded, and additional
monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as Congress makes
appropriations available for future fiscal years.

While we had consistent bookings in fiscal 2006, no assurances can be given that this trend will
continue going forward. We believe that because of the unexpected length and cost of the war in
Iraq and as part of a broad overhaul of U.S. priorities, funds for weapons and equipment have been
reallocated away from high technology programs to areas that we do not supply, such as personnel
and infrastructure in support of the war s operations. In addition, the United States defense
industry is moving toward the purchase of commercial off-the-shelf products rather than those
designed and manufactured to higher military specifications. To the extent that our products are
substituted with commercial off-the-shelf products, our operations would suffer. Even if military
spending continues to increase, these shifts in military spending would also negatively affect our
sales and profits. In addition, we obtain many U.S. government contracts and subcontracts through
the process of competitive bidding. We may not be successful in having our bids accepted.
Ultimately, our sales and profit connected to military spending and defense-related companies are
subject to many factors that are beyond our control and trends and events that are difficult to
predict.

Our goodwill has been impaired, and may become impaired in the future.  

We have goodwill resulting from our acquisitions, specifically Panelview and IDS. At least
annually, we evaluate this goodwill for impairment based on the fair value of the related reporting
units. This estimated fair value could change if there were future changes in our capital
structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditure levels, ability to perform at levels
that were forecasted or a permanent change to the market capitalization of our company. These
changes have in the past, and may in the future, result in an impairment that would require a
material non-cash charge to our results of operations. In the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we
recorded an impairment of goodwill to our interface electronics reporting unit in Columbus, Ohio.
Our annual review of goodwill in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 resulted in the impairment of
goodwill to our commercial microelectronic reporting unit in Phoenix
and our display reporting unit in Oregon. See Notes 2 and 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information.

We have made and may make other acquisitions and cannot assure you that any potential acquisition
will be successful.  

We are looking for strategic opportunities to grow and diversify our product offerings through
acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying appropriate
acquisition candidates or integrating products and operations with any such candidates that we may
acquire. Any such acquisitions could involve the dilutive issuance of equity securities and/or the
incurrence of debt. In addition, acquisitions may involve numerous additional risks, including:

exposure to unanticipated liabilities of an acquired company; 

11 

Table of Contents   

the potential loss of key customers or key personnel of an acquired company; 

the recording of goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to
impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges; 

the diversion of the attention of our management team from other business concerns; 

the risk of entering into markets or producing products where we have limited or no
experience, including the integration of the purchased technologies and products with our
technologies and products; and 

our ability to assess, integrate and implement internal controls of an acquired company
in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no
assurance that the products will continue to be successful, that product enhancements will be made
in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues
that might arise with respect to the acquired company or its products.

Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production at any
time, which could materially reduce our net sales and operating results.  

We generally do not receive firm, long-term purchase commitments from our OEM customers. Customers
may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons.
At times, our customers  industries experience significant decreases in demand for their products
and services. The generally uncertain economic condition of several of the industries of our
customers has resulted, and may continue to result, in some of our customers delaying the delivery
of some of the products we manufacture for them, and placing purchase orders for lower volumes of
products than originally anticipated. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant
customer or by a group of customers would seriously harm our results of operations for a period by
reducing our net sales in that period. In addition, because many of our costs and operating
expenses are fixed, a reduction in customer demand could harm our gross profit and operating
income.

We have a concentrated customer base and, as a result, our net sales could decline significantly if
we lose a major customer.  

A large portion of our net sales has been derived from sales to a small number of our customers.
Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 28% of our net sales in fiscal 2006 and
fiscal 2005. Our customers are not subject to any minimum purchase requirements and can
discontinue the purchase of our products at any time. In the event one or more of our major
customers reduces, delays or cancels orders with us, and we are not able to sell our services and
products to new customers at comparable levels, our net sales could decline significantly. In
addition, any difficulty in collecting amounts due from one or more key customers would negatively
impact our results of operations.

We depend on military prime contractors and commercial OEM customers for the sale of our products
and the failure of these customers to achieve significant sales of products incorporating our
components would reduce our net sales and operating results.  

We sell substantially all of our products to military prime contractors and commercial OEMs. The
timing and amount of sales to these customers ultimately depend on sales levels and shipping
schedules for the products into which our components are incorporated. We have no control over the
volume of products shipped by our military prime contractors and commercial OEM customers or
shipping dates, and we cannot be certain that our military prime contractors and OEM customers will
continue to ship products that incorporate our components at current levels or at all. Our
business will be harmed if our military prime contractors and OEM customers fail to achieve
significant sales of products incorporating our components or if fluctuations in the timing and
volume of such sales occur. Failure of these customers to inform us of changes in their production
needs in a timely manner could also hinder our ability to effectively manage our business.

12 

Table of Contents   

We depend on the continuing trend of outsourcing by commercial OEMs and prime military contractors,
which is subject to factors beyond our control.  

Our net sales and future growth in our net sales depend in part on outsourcing, in which we assume
additional manufacturing and supply chain management responsibilities from commercial OEMs and
military prime contractors. To the extent that these opportunities are not available, either
because commercial OEMs or military prime contractors decide to perform these functions internally,
or because they use other providers of these services, our results of operations may be adversely
affected.

Our failure to comply with United States government laws and regulations would reduce our ability
to be awarded future military business.  

We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance
of federal government contracts as passed down to us by our customers in their purchase orders,
which affects our military business and may impose added cost on our business. We are subject to
government investigations (including private party  whistleblower  lawsuits) of our policies,
procedures, and internal controls for compliance with procurement regulations and applicable laws.
If a government investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil
and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including the termination of our contracts,
the forfeiture of profits, the suspension of payments owed to us, fines, and our suspension or
debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. In addition, we could expend
substantial amounts defending against such charges and in damages, fines and penalties if such
charges are proven or result in negotiated settlements. Since military sales account for a
significant portion of our business, any debarment or suspension of our ability to obtain military
sales would greatly reduce our overall net sales and profits, and would likely affect our ability
to continue as a going concern.

We may have an adverse resolution of litigation which may harm our operating results or financial
condition.  

We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. In addition, we are defendants in
several shareholder class action lawsuits. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to
normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to
predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on
our business, operating results, or financial condition. For additional information regarding
certain of the lawsuits in which we are involved, see Item 3,  Legal Proceedings,  contained in
Part I of this report.

We may fail to meet expectations because our net sales, gross profits and net income will
fluctuate from period to period.  

Our operating results have varied in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate. In connection
with our business, a wide array of factors could cause our net sales, gross profits and net income
to fluctuate in the future from period
to period. In addition to other factors mentioned in this report, primary factors that might
affect our results of operations in this regard include:

our inability to adjust expenses for any particular quarter in response to net sales
shortfalls because a substantial component of our operating expenses are fixed costs; 

the cyclical nature of the markets in which we serve, in particular with respect to our
membrane keypad business; 

any adverse changes in the mix of products and types of manufacturing services that we
provide (e.g., high volume and low complexity commercial keypads have lower gross margins
than high complexity microelectronic devices for defense contractors); 

the complexity of our manufacturing processes and the sensitivity of our production
costs to declines in manufacturing yields, which make yield problems both possible and
costly when they occur; 

13 

Table of Contents   

expenses associated with acquisitions; and 

general economic conditions. 

As a result of any of these or other factors, we could fail to achieve our expectations as to
future net sales, gross profits and net income. Any downward fluctuation or failure to meet
expectations will likely adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. Due to the
foregoing factors, it is likely that in some future periods our operating results will be below the
expectations of public market analysts and investors and, as a result, the market price of our
common stock may decline.

We have a lengthy sales cycle, which increases the likelihood that our quarterly net sales will
fluctuate and which may, in turn, adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  

Due to the complexity of our technology, our customers perform, and require us to perform,
extensive process and product evaluation and testing, which results in a lengthy sales cycle. Our
sales cycles often last for several months, and may last for up to a year or more. As a result of
this lengthy sales cycle, our net sales and operating results may vary unpredictably from period to
period. This fact makes it more difficult to forecast our quarterly results and can cause
substantial variations in operating results from quarter to quarter that are unrelated to the
long-term trends in our business. This lack of predictability and variability in our results could
adversely affect the market price of our common stock in particular periods.

Our failure to detect unknown defects in our products could materially harm our relationship with
customers, our reputation and our business.  

Notwithstanding the testing that we perform on our products, defects could be found in our existing
or new products. These defects could result in product liability or warranty claims. In addition,
any defects found in our products could result in a loss of net sales or market share, failure to
achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation, indemnification claims, litigation, increased
insurance costs and increased service costs, any of which could discourage customers from
purchasing our products. Although we maintain a warranty reserve, we cannot be certain that this
reserve will be sufficient to cover our warranty or other expenses that could arise in the future
as a result of defects found in our products.

Our operating results could be seriously harmed if the markets in which we sell our products do not
grow.  

Our continued success depends in large part on the continued growth of various market sectors that
use our products, including the following:

defense and aerospace equipment; 

computers and computer related peripherals; 

medical electronics and equipment; 

home appliances and consumer electronics; 

industrial controls; and 

telecommunication/datacommunication equipment. 

Slow growth in these markets in which we sell our products could reduce our sales, adversely
affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, decreases in
demand in the consumer electronics and home appliance markets, could negatively impact our sales
and profits for our subsidiary, IDS.

14 

Table of Contents   

Further downturns in the industries in which we operate could reduce the value of our inventories
and cause a reduction in our profits.  

In the past, we have experienced reductions in the value of our inventories due to unexpected
demand declines, resulting from a softening of the semiconductor and telecommunications industries.
Such declines have caused us to write down several million dollars worth of inventory, which
greatly reduced our profits for the given period. If any of the markets in which our customers
operate suffers a decline, we may be forced to write down existing inventory, which could adversely
affect our results of operations.

We use manufacturing resources in Asia and Mexico, which limits our control of the manufacturing
process.  

As part of our strategy to decrease manufacturing costs, we outsource some of our manufacturing
requirements to strategic partners in Taiwan, China, the Philippines and Mexico. Outsourcing,
particularly with international manufacturers, carries certain risks, including:

the outsourcing contractors  ability to manufacture products that meet our technical
specifications and that have minimal defects; 

the outsourcing contractors  ability to honor their product warranties; 

the financial solvency, labor concerns and general business condition of our outsourcing contractors; 

unexpected changes in and the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign
laws and regulatory requirements; 

increased chances of our intellectual property being infringed as a result of the
failure of foreign governments to enforce the protection of intellectual property rights; 

political and economic instability in overseas locations; and 

global health related matters, such as SARS, Avian Flu and other health concerns. 

We are dependent on international markets for a large portion of our purchases and sales   . 

Foreign suppliers of semiconductor and display related materials are regularly threatened with, or
involved in, pending trade disputes and sanctions. If trade disputes or sanctions arise that
affect our suppliers, we may be unable to obtain access to critical sources of raw materials that
we need to produce our products, in which event our business could be adversely affected.

We anticipate that our foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our net
sales. If the United States government placed restrictions on exporting military technology using
our products in countries where we have customers, or vendors, it could cause a significant
reduction in our sales. Our foreign sales are subject to the following risks:

fluctuations in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect the prices of our
products and the prices of raw materials used in our products; 

trade disputes; 

changes in regulatory requirements, license requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers; 

the possibility of quotas, duties, taxes or other changes or restrictions upon the
importation or exportation of our products implemented by the United States government or
foreign governments; 

the timing and availability of export or other licenses; 

15 

Table of Contents   

general political and economic conditions in the countries in which we sell our products; 

language and other cultural differences which may inhibit our sales and marketing efforts; 

costs of complying with a variety of foreign laws; 

difficulty of accounts receivable collections; 

increased chances of our intellectual property being infringed as a result of the
failure of foreign governments to enforce the protection of intellectual property rights;
and 

public health issues that could disrupt local economies. 

If we are unable to retain employees with key technical expertise or we are otherwise unable to
protect our intellectual property, or if we are found to have infringed third party intellectual
property rights, our financial condition and future prospects could be materially harmed.  

The products that we sell from both our microelectronic segment and our display segment require a
large amount of engineering design and manufacturing expertise. However, the majority of our
technological capabilities are not protected by patents and licenses. We rely on the expertise of
our employees, and our learned experiences in both the design and manufacture of our products. If
we were to lose one or more of our key employees, then we would likely lose some portion of our
institutional knowledge and technical know-how. It is possible, and it has occurred in the past,
that a competitor may also learn to design and produce products with similar performance abilities
as our products. If a competitor were to do so, it may result in increased competition, and a
reduction of sales for our products.

We rely on trade secret protection for most of our proprietary technology, in part through
confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. If any of these
agreements are found to be unenforceable, we may be unable to adequately protect our technology.
If any of these agreements are breached, especially by companies much larger than us, we may not
have adequate financial resources to adequately enforce our rights. Also, others may come to know
about or determine our trade secrets. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which we
develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the
same extent as the laws of the United States.

While we are currently not aware of any claims against us for the infringement of intellectual
property rights, any such claim could divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel
and require us to spend significant resources to develop or otherwise obtain non-infringing
technology. Any successful claim against us would likely require us to pay substantial damages or
cease the use and sale of infringing products, or both.

Our business is dependent upon retaining key personnel and attracting new employees.  

Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior
management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or
other key personnel could adversely affect our business. We may not be able to retain these
employees and searching for their replacements could divert the attention of other senior
management and increase our operating expenses. Of our current executive officers, only Hamid
Shokrgozar, our Chief Executive Officer, has an employment contract with us. We currently do not
maintain any key person life insurance. To manage our operations effectively, we may need to hire
and retain additional qualified employees including in the areas of product design, engineering,
operations management, manufacturing production, sales, accounting and finance. We may have
difficulty recruiting these employees or integrating them into our business.

Our failure to comply with environmental regulations could subject us to costs and production
delays   . 

We currently use limited quantities of hazardous materials common to our industry in connection
with the production of our products. We must follow federal, state and local environmental laws
and regulations regarding the handling, storage and disposal of these materials. To our knowledge,
we are currently in material compliance

16 

Table of Contents   

with all federal, state and local environmental laws and
regulations regarding the handling, use, storage and disposal of these materials. We could be
subject to fines, suspensions of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or
interruption or cessation of our operations if we fail to comply with present or future laws or
regulations related to the use, storage, handling, discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or
otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing processes. These regulations could require
us to acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur other expenses to comply with
environmental regulations. Our failure to control the handling, use, storage or disposal of, or
adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to liabilities and
production delays, which could cause us to miss our customer s delivery schedules, thereby reducing
our sales for a given period. We may also have to pay regulatory fines, penalties or other costs
(including remediation costs), which could materially reduce our profits.

If our selling prices decline and we fail to reduce our costs, our sales and operating results
will decline.  

Even in the absence of cyclical conditions, the average selling prices of our products have
historically decreased during the products  lives, and we expect this trend to continue, especially
with respect to sales in the commercial markets. In order to offset these average selling price
decreases, we attempt to decrease manufacturing costs, and introduce new, higher priced products
that incorporate advanced features. If these efforts are not successful, we will not be
competitive because we will not be able to remain profitable at decreased selling prices, possibly
leading to our exit from certain market sectors.

In addition to following the general pattern of decreasing average selling prices, the selling
prices for certain products, particularly DRAM, Double Data Rate II ( DDR II ) products and liquid
crystal displays ( LCDs ), fluctuate significantly with real and perceived changes in the balance
of supply and demand for these products. If we are unable to decrease per unit manufacturing costs
faster than the rate at which average selling prices continue to decline, our business, financial
condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed. In addition, we expect our
competitors to invest in new manufacturing capacity and achieve significant manufacturing yield
improvements in the future. These developments could result in a dramatic increase in worldwide
supply and result in associated downward pressure on prices.

If we fail to develop, introduce and sell new products or fail to develop and implement new
manufacturing technologies, our operating results could be adversely affected.  

We operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment marked by rapid obsolescence of
existing products. The future success of our business will depend in large part upon our ability
to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, make required capital investments, design,
develop, manufacture, market and sell services and products that meet our customers  changing
needs, and successfully anticipate or respond to
technological changes on a cost effective and timely basis. Our sales will be reduced, either
through loss of business to our competitors or discontinuance of our products in the market, if any
of the following occur:

we fail to complete and introduce new product designs in a timely manner; 

we are unable to design and manufacture products according to the requirements of our
customers; 

our customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating our
products; 

market demand for our new products does not develop as anticipated; 

we are unable to obtain raw materials in a timely manner or at favorable prices; or 

we are unable to maintain pricing to sustain or grow our gross margins. 

In particular, many of our display products have been developed based on products procured from
Sharp Electronics Corporation. Our competitors in the enhanced display products market are
investing substantial resources to develop flat panel displays using alternative technologies. If
our competitors are successful in developing new products that offer significant advantages over
our products, and we are unable to improve our technology or develop or acquire alternative
technology that is more competitive, we will lose business to our competitors and our

  17 

Table of Contents   

sales and
profits from the display segment will be greatly reduced. Increasing complexity in our
microelectronic segment generally requires the use of smaller geometries in semiconductor chips.
This makes manufacturing new generations of products substantially more difficult and costly than
prior products. Ultimately, whether we can successfully introduce these and other new products
depends on our ability to develop and implement new ways of manufacturing our products. If we are
unable to design, develop, manufacture, market and sell new products successfully, we will lose
business and possibly be forced to exit from the particular market or sector.

We depend on limited suppliers for certain critical raw materials. Our inability to obtain
sufficient raw materials at favorable prices could increase our prices or otherwise harm our
business.  

Our manufacturing operations require raw materials that must meet exacting standards.
Additionally, certain customers require us to buy from particular vendors due to their product
specifications. The most significant raw materials that we purchase are memory devices in wafer,
die, and component forms and AMLCD panels. Shortages of wafers and other raw materials may occur
when there is a strong demand for memory integrated circuits and other related products. AMLCD
panels may also be in short supply at times. A major decline in a supplier s financial condition
could also cause a production slowdown or stoppage, which could affect our ability to obtain raw
materials. We rely heavily on our ability to maintain access to steady sources of these raw
materials at favorable prices. We are highly dependent on one or two semiconductor manufacturers
for memory devices, such as SRAM, DRAM, DDR II, flash, etc. and one package manufacturer of ceramic
packages for military components. We do not have specific long-term contractual arrangements, but
we believe we are on good terms with our suppliers. We cannot be certain that we will continue to
have access to our current sources of supply or that we will not encounter supply problems in the
future. Any interruption in our supply of raw materials could reduce our sales in a given period,
and possibly cause a loss of business to a competitor, if we could not reschedule the deliveries of
our product to our customers. In addition, our gross profits could suffer if the prices for raw
materials increase, especially with respect to sales associated with military contracts where
prices are typically fixed.

The United States and global responses to terrorism, the unsettled world political situations and
perceived nuclear threats increase uncertainties with respect to many of our businesses and may
adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

The United States and global responses to terrorism, the unsettled world political situations and
perceived nuclear threats increase uncertainties with respect to U.S. and other business and
financial markets. Several factors associated, directly or indirectly, with terrorism, the Iraq
situation and perceived nuclear threats and responses may
adversely affect us. Futhermore, we will predominately be uninsured for losses and interruptions
caused by terrorist acts or acts of war.

Various United States government responses to these factors could realign government programs and
affect the composition, funding or timing of the government programs in which we participate.
Government spending could shift to programs in which we may not participate or may not have current
capabilities. The influence of any of these factors, which are largely beyond our control, could
adversely affect our business.

While we believe our control systems are effective, there are inherent limitations in all control
systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.  

We continue to take action to assure compliance with the internal controls, disclosure controls and
other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure
controls will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well
conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of
the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that
there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because
of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute
assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been
detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be
faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be
circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by
management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part
upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that
any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over
time, a control may be

18 

Table of Contents   

inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with
the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective
control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.

Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock that could have rights
superior to our outstanding shares of common stock, and, if issued, could adversely impact the
value of our common stock.  

Our amended and restated articles of incorporation permit our Board of Directors, in its sole
discretion, to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of authorized but unissued preferred stock. These
shares may be issued by our Board of Directors, without further action by our shareholders, and may
include any of the following rights, among others, which may be superior to the rights of our
outstanding common stock:

voting rights, including the right to vote as a class on particular matters; 

preferences as to dividends and liquidation rights; 

conversion rights and anti-dilution protections; and 

redemption rights. 

Since our Board of Directors has the authority to determine, from time to time, the terms of our
authorized preferred stock, there is no limit on the amount of common stock that could be issuable
upon conversion of any future series of preferred stock that may be issued. The rights of holders
of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders
of any series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, the market price
of our common stock may be adversely affected by the issuance of any series of preferred stock with
voting or other rights superior to those of our common stock. The issuance of any series of
preferred stock could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire
a majority of our outstanding common stock.

Our shareholders  rights plan may make it more difficult for others to obtain control of us.  

Pursuant to the terms of our shareholders rights plan, as amended, commonly referred to as a poison
pill, we have distributed a dividend of one right for each outstanding share of common stock.
These rights will cause substantial dilution to the ownership of a person or group that attempts to
acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors, and may have the effect of deterring
hostile takeover attempts. The practical effect of these provisions is to require a party seeking
control of us to negotiate with our Board of Directors, which could delay or prevent a change in
control. These provisions could discourage a future takeover attempt which individual shareholders
might deem to be in their best interests or in which shareholders would receive a premium for their
shares over current prices.

Our stock price has been volatile   . 

The price of our common stock fluctuates significantly. The trading price of our common stock
could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to:

19 

Table of Contents   

future announcements concerning our company, our competitors or our principal customers,
such as quarterly operating results, adjustments to previously reported results, changes in
earnings estimates by analysts, technological innovations, new product introductions,
governmental regulations, or litigation; 

the liquidity within the market of our common stock; 

sales of common stock by our officers, directors and other insiders; 

investor perceptions concerning the prospects of our business; 

market conditions and investor sentiment affecting market prices of equity securities of
high technology companies in the microelectronic or display industries; 

general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions or international
currency fluctuations; 

market reaction to acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments announced by us
or our competitors; 

lawsuits filed against the Company; and 

compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 

ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

To our knowledge, we have no written unresolved comments regarding our periodic or current reports
from the staff of the SEC.

ITEM 2 PROPERTIES

The following table sets forth the locations and general characteristics of the physical properties
that we own or lease in connection with the conduct of our business:

In addition to the above properties, we own 10 acres of vacant land adjacent to the Fort Wayne,
Indiana facility. In October 2004, we announced that we would be closing our Phoenix location on
Flower Street (acquired as part of the IDS acquisition) and relocating employees and the machinery
and equipment to our leased facility at our headquarters building. In November 2004, we entered
into an amendment of our headquarters lease to add another 31,000 square feet of space in our
headquarters facility which has been improved to accommodate the additional manufacturing
relocated. Our amended headquarters lease covers up to approximately 74,000 square feet. The
lease term will expire in July 2015 and is subject to two five-year renewal options. We completed
the consolidation in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and incurred approximately $4.1 million in
capital improvements. We have placed the Flower Street land and building on the market. We expect
net proceeds from the sale to exceed the net book value of our land and building related to the
Flower Street location of approximately $1.9 million. However, we do not expect any ultimate gain
or loss to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. Our Panelview
subsidiary leases approximately 58,000 square feet of office and manufacturing space in Hillsboro,
Oregon for manufacturing ruggedized and industrial display products.

20 

Table of Contents   

We consider all of our facilities to be well maintained and adequate for current operations. All
facilities have additional capacity, which could be utilized in the event of increased production
requirements. Our manufacturing facilities that serve the military market must comply with
stringent military specifications. Our microelectronic module manufacturing facility in Phoenix,
Arizona is certified ISO-9001 and Class B status. Class B status means that we are qualified to
manufacture compliant military products. Substantially all of our owned real property has been
pledged as security for our line of credit with JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A.

ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

On July 22, 2004, July 29, 2004, August 6, 2004 and August 20, 2004, shareholder class action
lawsuits entitled  McJimsey v. White Electronic Designs Corporation, et al.  (Case No.
CV04-1499-PHX-SRB),  Afework v. White Electronic Designs Corporation, et al  (Case No.
CV04-1558-PHX-JWS),  Anders v. White Electronic Designs Corporation, et al.  (Case No.
CV04-1632-PHX-JAT), and  Sammarco v. White Electronic Designs Corporation, et al.  (Case No.
CV04-1744-PHX-EHC), respectively, were filed in the United States District Court for the District
of Arizona against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors (the
 Defendants ). The actions were consolidated and the Wayne County Employees  Retirement System was
appointed as lead plaintiff. A consolidated complaint was filed on or about February 14, 2005.
The Defendants  motions to dismiss the consolidated complaint were granted on February 14, 2006.
The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on April 17, 2006 (the  Complaint ). Like the dismissed
complaint, the new Complaint alleges, among other things, that between January 23, 2003 and June 9,
2004, the Company made false and misleading statements concerning its financial results and
business, and issued a misleading registration statement and prospectus in connection with the
Company s July 2003 secondary offering. The Complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages.
Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the new Complaint in June 2006. While Defendants  motions
were pending, the parties reached an agreement to settle the lawsuit. Pursuant to the terms of the
agreement, our insurance carrier will pay the entire
$5.7 million settlement amount (of which at least
$0.7 million will come from the derivative settlement agreement
described below). The
agreement, which must be approved by the Court, has been submitted to the Court for preliminary
approval. The Court has not set a hearing date on the request for preliminary approval. If
preliminary approval is granted, then the members of the class will be notified and allowed an
opportunity to object before the Court grants final approval of the agreement. We have recorded a
liability in our financial statements for the proposed amount of the settlement. In addition,
because the insurance carrier has agreed to pay the entire $5.7 million settlement and recovery
from the insurance carrier is probable, a receivable has also been recorded for the same amount.
Accordingly, there is no impact to the statements of operations or cash flows because the amounts
of the settlement and the insurance recovery fully offset each other.

On August 12, 2004 and August 19, 2004, purported derivative actions entitled  Dodt v. Shokrgozar,
et al.  (Case No. CV04-1674-PHX-NVW) and  Christ v. Shokrgozar, et al.  (Case No. CV04-1722-PHX-MHM),
respectively, were filed in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona against
current and former directors and officers of the Company. The Company was also named as a nominal
defendant in both actions. The complaints alleged that between January 2003 and the date the
complaints were filed, defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the Company by causing the
Company to misrepresent its financial results and prospects. The complaints alleged claims for
breach of fiduciary duty, gross mismanagement, abuse of control, waste of corporate assets, insider
selling, and unjust enrichment, and sought unspecified damages, equitable relief, and restitution
against the
individual defendants. On June 7, 2005, the District Court dismissed the Dodt action and on June
15, 2005, the District Court dismissed the Christ action. Mr. Dodt has appealed the dismissal of
his complaint. Mr. Dodt filed an appellate brief in June 2006. The Company s response to Mr.
Dodt s brief was filed on July 28, 2006. While plaintiff s appeal was pending, the parties reached
an agreement to settle the lawsuit. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, our
insurance carrier would pay the entire $300,000 settlement amount
(total amount of the settlement is $1.0 million; $0.7 million of which will be used to fund a
portion of the $5.7 million class action settlement described
above). The agreement, which must be approved by the Court, will be
submitted to the Court for preliminary approval. If preliminary
approval is granted, then shareholders will be notified and allowed
an opportunity to object before the Court grants final approval of
the agreement. We have recorded a liability in our financial
statements for the amount of the settlement. In addition, because the insurance carrier
has agreed to pay the entire $300,000 settlement and recovery from the insurance carrier is
probable, a receivable has also been recorded for the same amount. Accordingly, there is no impact
to the statements of operations or cash flows because the amounts of the settlement and the
insurance recovery fully offset each other.

In addition, from time to time, we are subject to claims and litigation incident to our business.
There are currently no such pending proceedings to which we are a party that we believe will have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, or financial
condition.

21 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 4 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matter was submitted to a vote of our security holders during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006,
through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise.

OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The names, ages, positions and business experience of all of our executive officers are listed
below. There are no family relationships between any of our directors and executive officers or
any arrangement or understanding between any of our executive officers and any other person
pursuant to which any executive officer was appointed to his office.

Hamid R. Shokrgozar, 46,
President,
Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
of the Board

Hamid R. Shokrgozar   has been our
President and Chief Executive
Officer since October 1998 and
the Chairman of the Board since
August 2000. Mr. Shokrgozar
served as a director and as
President and Chief Executive
Officer of Bowmar from January
1998 until the merger of Bowmar
and EDI in October 1998. Mr.
Shokrgozar served as President of
White Microelectronics, the
largest division of Bowmar, from
June 1993 to December 1997 and as
its Vice President of Engineering
and Technology from July 1988 to
June 1993. Mr. Shokrgozar also
served as Chairman of American
Electronic Association (AEA),
Arizona Council, during fiscal
years 1999 and 2000. In
addition, Mr. Shokrgozar holds a
United States Patent for the
invention of  Stacked Die Carrier
Assembly.  Mr. Shokrgozar holds
a Bachelor of Science in
Electrical Engineering from
California State University,
Fullerton. 

Roger A. Derse, 56,
Vice President, Chief Financial Officer

Roger A. Derse   has been our Vice
President and Chief Financial
Officer since March 2004. Mr.
Derse has over 25 years
experience in finance and
accounting. He previously served
as Consultant/Acting CFO for
Vitron Manufacturing from 2002
through February 2004 and was
Executive Vice President and
Chief Operating and Financial
Officer for Nanonics Corporation
from 1998 to 2001. He was Chief
Financial Officer for the White
Microelectronics Division of
Bowmar Instrument Corporation
from 1993 to 1997. Mr. Derse
holds a Bachelor of Science in
Industrial Engineering from the
University of Michigan, a Master
in Accounting from the University
of Arizona, and is a Certified
Public Accountant. 

Dante V. Tarantine, 53,
Executive Vice President,
Sales   Marketing

Dante V. Tarantine   has been our
Executive Vice
President, Sales and Marketing
since January 2003. Mr.
Tarantine served as our Senior
Vice President of Sales from
August 1998 to January 2003. He
previously served as our Senior
Vice President Sales and
Marketing from September 1991 to
August 1998 and as Vice President
of Marketing for White
Microelectronics from February
1987 to September 1991. Mr.
Tarantine holds a Bachelor of
Science in Electrical Engineering
from California State University,
Northridge. 

22 

Table of Contents   

PART II 

ITEM 5 
       
     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES. 

Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol  WEDC . The
following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for the common stock by quarter during the
fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and October 1, 2005.

As of December 12, 2006, our stock price was $5.50, and there were approximately 10,000 holders of
record of our common stock. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not expect
to do so in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain all earnings to provide funds for the
operation and expansion of our business. In addition, our credit agreement precludes the payment
of cash dividends on our common stock.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

On June 19, 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program pursuant to which up
to 5%, or 1,231,108 shares, of our outstanding common stock may be repurchased from time to time.
The duration of the repurchase program is open-ended and is being implemented through a Rule 10b5-1
Stock Purchase Plan. Under the program, we can purchase shares of common stock through the open
market on a daily basis at prices equal to or less than $5.50 per share without further approval by
the Board. The timing and amount of repurchase transactions under this program will depend on
market conditions and corporate and regulatory considerations. The purchases will be funded from
available cash balances. Purchases during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 were as
follows:

23 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6 SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

This table should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements provided elsewhere herein. 

Notes to Selected Financial Data

(1) 
       
     In January 2003, the Company acquired IDS for a purchase price of approximately $18.6
million. The effect of this transaction increased our total assets by approximately $18.0
million and our shareholders  equity by approximately $9.0 million. Net sales for IDS in
fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005, fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003 totaled approximately $23.5 million,
$28.8 million, $23.4 million and $16.1 million, respectively. 

(2) 
       
     In fiscal 2003, the Company discontinued the amortization of its goodwill with the adoption
of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  ( SFAS 142 ). Goodwill amortization
expense, net of tax, was approximately $0.9 million in fiscal 2002. 

(3) 
       
     In fiscal 2006, the Company recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of approximately
$0.4 million in connection with its review of goodwill for impairment. In fiscal 2005, the
Company recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $11.4 million in
connection with its review of goodwill for impairment and favorable income tax adjustments of
approximately $1.0 million. The goodwill impairments had no corresponding income tax benefit. 

24 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements
that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those
referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described under
 Risk Factors,  and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Overview 

We design, develop and manufacture innovative microelectronic and display components and systems
for inclusion in high technology products used in the military, industrial, and commercial markets.
Our microelectronic solutions include advanced semiconductor and state of the art multi-chip
packaging, as well as our proprietary process for applying anti-tamper protection to mission
critical semiconductor components in military applications. Our display solutions include enhanced
flat panel display products, interface devices and electromechanical assemblies. Our customers,
which include military prime contractors in the United States and Europe as well as commercial
OEMs, outsource many of their microelectronic and display components and systems to us as a result
of the combination of our design, development and manufacturing expertise.

We were formed as a result of the merger between Bowmar and EDI in October 1998. At the time of
the merger, Bowmar was a manufacturer of high reliability electronic components and interface and
mechanical devices, mainly for military applications. EDI was a manufacturer of commercial memory
products for the telecommunications and networking markets and also had a small ruggedized display
business serving the military and industrial markets. This merger provided us with a diversified
platform to expand our product offerings within both the military and commercial markets. In order
to complement our military/industrial display business, we acquired Panelview, a designer and
manufacturer of enhanced commercial flat panel display products, in January 2001. Following the
acquisition, we consolidated our display operations into our Panelview subsidiary. In January
2003, we acquired IDS, a designer and manufacturer of membrane keypads, flexible circuits, sensors,
control panels, and handheld and desktop electronic devices. This acquisition allowed us to expand
our interface device product offerings and enhance our subsystem solutions. In addition, with IDS 
design and manufacturing capabilities, we can now offer fully integrated system level solutions.

Executive Summary 

Net sales for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 were approximately $108.9 million, compared
to net sales of $117.0 million for fiscal 2005. The decrease was due to declines in both the
microelectronic and the display segments. Microelectronic segment net sales to the
military/industrial customers continue to be strong and annual net sales increased $2.7 million, or
7%, over fiscal 2005. However, commercial net sales in the microelectronic segment decreased by
$6.6 million, or 25%, from fiscal 2005 due to lower average selling prices reflecting decreased
material costs passed onto our customers and lower demand for our product resulting from decreased
business for some of our customers. The decrease in commercial display segment net sales of $4.6
million, or 11%, was attributable in part to our strategic business decision in our display segment
in fiscal 2005 not to pursue future business in low margin products. In connection with this
decision, our contract with NCR Corporation ended in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Although
we have expanded our customer base, we were not able to recoup all of the revenues in fiscal 2006.
Additionally, we experienced a decrease in orders from our appliance customers.

A key indicator of our future sales is the amount of new orders received compared to current net
sales, known as the book-to-bill ratio. For the year, we had new orders of approximately $108.0
million, which equates to a book-to-bill ratio of 0.99 for the year. Microelectronic segment
orders for the year were approximately $60.2 million, which equates to a book-to-bill ratio of 1.00
for the year. Military/industrial bookings were strong throughout the year. However, we do not
have a level of visibility that indicates this trend will continue in the coming quarters.
Commercial bookings declined in fiscal 2006 as some key customers faced a decline in business which
impacted their orders from us. New orders for our microelectronic segment s anti-tamper process
technology were approximately $3.9 million for the year and we had sales of approximately $4.8
million. We currently expect to see growth for anti-tamper technology products over the next
several years. Display segment orders for the year were approximately $47.8 million, which equates
to a book-to-bill ratio of 0.98 for the year. As we continue to build business after the
completion of the NCR contract, we expect display segment bookings to increase in fiscal 2007.

25 

Table of Contents   

Our gross margins increased year over year to approximately 31% for fiscal 2006 from approximately
30% for fiscal 2005. The primary reason for this increase was higher margins in our display
segment, which increased to 21% in fiscal 2006 from 19% in fiscal 2005. This is the result of
focusing on higher margin business in fiscal 2006. However, gross margins for our display segment
products continue to come under pressure from both domestic and Asian competition, and while we are
implementing business and manufacturing strategies to improve our competitive position, it may be
difficult to continue to maintain current gross margins in the future. Gross margins in our
microelectronic segment remained steady at 38% in fiscal 2006 when compared to fiscal 2005.

Our overall production has, at times, been affected by longer lead times for certain components,
which may affect the timing and cost of sales during the year. The availability and price of
memory and display components, based on supply and demand, will fluctuate on a monthly or quarterly
basis. When demand exceeds supply, prices will generally increase and lead times will lengthen.
When supply exceeds demand, prices will generally decrease and lead times will shorten. The DRAM
and DDR market has been in short supply in the second half of fiscal
2006 with many densities allocated and prices fluctuating. However,
recently the supply has increased and prices appear to be stabilizing. The DDR II market, which had
ample supply over the past six months, is starting to tighten up as more companies have started the
transition from DDR to DDR II. We expect prices to increase during fiscal 2007. The Flash memory
supply has been stable. We expect prices to remain flat or trend down slightly in fiscal 2007.
The availability of liquid crystal displays ( LCDs ) has stabilized with prices up slightly over
the last few quarters of fiscal 2006. Management expects LCD prices to remain stable for the first half of the
fiscal year, but potential shortages may increase prices in the second half of the fiscal year for
the industrial market (non PC and notebook), based in part on analyst s expectations.

We expect that sales of our enhanced Max-Vu  screens for specialized anywhere-viewable tablet PCs
will be negatively impacted in the first half of fiscal year 2007 due to capacity constraint issues
at a leading glass provider, but expect sales to begin to accelerate in the second half of the
fiscal year.

We have purchased and placed duplicate equipment for our Max-Vu  process technology in a
manufacturing company located in China in order to be more competitive in the commercial display
market for our tablet PC products. We began production using this equipment in the second quarter
of fiscal 2006 and will continue to migrate other related business to China.

We continue to invest in the anti-tamper process technology as we expect to secure additional
opportunities in the years to come.

On October 2, 2005, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123(R) ), which
requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense in the financial statements for
all share-based awards made to employees and directors based on estimated fair values. For the
year ended September 30, 2006, we recorded $0.4 million of compensation expense which is reflected
in our selling, general and administrative expenses.

In the third quarter of fiscal 2006, as a result of the less than expected financial performance of
our interface electronics product line in Columbus, Ohio, we performed a goodwill impairment test
on this reporting unit in accordance with SFAS 142. Based on our testing, we found indicators of
impairment in the reporting unit. Based on the current and forecasted competitive market
conditions, we have lowered earnings and cash flow projections for this reporting unit and expect
it to grow more slowly than had been previously projected. The revenue and profitability of this
reporting unit has not met management s expectations in fiscal 2006 primarily due to reduced demand
in this market. Accordingly, we wrote down all of the $0.4 million of the unamortized IDS
acquisition goodwill related to the reporting unit.

In June 2006, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 5%, or
approximately 1.2 million shares, of our outstanding common stock. The duration of the repurchase
program is open-ended and is being implemented through a Rule 10b5-1 Stock Purchase Plan. Through
September 30, 2006, we have purchased 241,145 shares of our common stock for $1.2 million.

Net income for fiscal year 2006 was approximately $6.0 million compared to a net loss of
approximately $3.5 million for fiscal 2005. The net loss in fiscal 2005 was due to the non-cash
impairment of goodwill of $11.4 million, offset slightly by a $0.8 million favorable adjustment of
our tax reserves.

26 

Table of Contents   

As part of our fiscal 2007 planning process, we are presently focused on and are pursuing the
following strategic initiatives:

Pursue the MIL-PRF-38534 Class K certification. This will allow the Company to offer the highest reliability level
military products intended for space applications; 

Pursue Circuit Card Assembly ( CCA ) for military customers, to offer system integration capabilities allowing the
Company to combine its manufactured components and multi-chip modules into a fully integrated product; 

Pursue the next generation anti-tamper technology for military and commercial applications; 

Pursue applications for industrial grade Compact Flash in ruggedized embedded computing systems including medical,
flight systems, factory automation, test and measurement and instrumentation; 

Pursue the next generation display enhancement technology, Max-Vu II  technology; 

Pursue fully integrated display products with complete Touch Panel offering; 

Continue the stock repurchase program to enhance shareholder value; and 

Continue to pursue other external strategic alternative plans to further position the Company for growth. 

S egments 

Our product and market diversification as well as our broad customer base have allowed us to
maintain relative sales stability and profitability. The following table shows our historical net
sales and the percent of total net sales by our two business segments and the markets they serve
(dollars in thousands):

During
fiscal 2006, $31.1 million, or 29%, of our goods were shipped to foreign customers, compared
to $20.7 million, or 18%, and $18.5 million, or 17%, in fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively.
This increase is primarily due to higher Asia Pacific sales as we sell more of our commercial
display products to that market.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
( GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and

27 

Table of Contents   

expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The most significant accounting estimates
inherent in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements include the following items:

We sell microelectronic and display products
primarily to military prime contractors and
commercial OEMs. A small portion of our products are
also sold through distributors or resellers. We
recognize revenue on product sales when persuasive
evidence of an arrangement with the customer exists,
title to the product has passed to the customer,
which usually occurs at time of shipment, the sales
price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility of
the related billing is reasonably assured. Advance
payments from customers are deferred and recognized
when the related products are shipped. Revenue
relating to products sold to distributors or
resellers who either have return rights or where the
Company has a history of accepting product returns
are deferred and recognized when the distributor or
reseller sells the product to the end customer. We
also provide limited design services pursuant to
related customer purchase orders and generally
recognize the associated revenue as such services are
performed. However, it may be deferred until certain
elements are completed. We may from time to time
enter into certain arrangements that contain multiple
elements such as performing limited design services
accompanied with follow-on manufacturing of related
products. We allocate revenue to the elements based
on relative fair value, and recognize revenue for
each element when there is evidence of an
arrangement, delivery has occurred or services have
been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable and
collectibility is reasonably assured. Arrangements
with multiple elements that are not considered
separate units of accounting require deferral of
revenue until certain other elements have been delivered or the services have
been performed. The amount of the revenue recognized is impacted by our
judgment as to whether an arrangement includes multiple elements, and whether
the elements are considered separate units of accounting. 

Historically, we have experienced fluctuations in the
demand for our products based on cyclical
fluctuations in the microelectronic and display
markets. These fluctuations may cause inventory on
hand to lose value or become obsolete. In order to
present the appropriate inventory value on our
financial statements, we identify slow moving or
obsolete inventories and record provisions to write
down such inventories to net realizable value. These
provisions are based on management s comparison of
the value of inventory on hand against expected
future sales. If future sales are less favorable
than those projected by management, additional
inventory provisions may be required. 

We record trade accounts receivable at the invoiced
amount and they do not bear interest. We maintain an
allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses
resulting from the inability of our customers to make
required payments. We make these estimates based on
an analysis of accounts receivable using available
information on our customers  financial status and
payment histories. Historically, bad debt losses
have not differed materially from our estimates.
Write-offs against the allowance totaled
approximately $32,000 in fiscal 2006, $274,000 in
fiscal 2005 and $170,000 in fiscal 2004. 

We maintain a pension plan for eligible union
employees at our Fort Wayne, Indiana facility. To
account for the cost of this plan, we make estimates
concerning the expected long-term rate of return on
plan assets, and discount rates to be used to
calculate future benefit obligations. Changes in the
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets
affect the amount of investment income expected to be
earned in the future. We base our related estimates
using historical data on the rate of return from
equities and fixed income investments, as well as
projections for future returns on such investments.
If the actual returns on plan assets do not equal the
estimated amounts, we may have to fund future benefit
obligations with additional contributions to the
plan. Changes in the discount rate affect the value
of the plan s future benefit obligations. A lower
discount rate increases the liabilities of the plan
because it raises the value of future benefit
obligations. This will also cause an increase in
pension expense recognized. We use published bond
yields to estimate the discount rate used for
calculating the value of future benefit obligations. 

We account for goodwill and intangible assets in
accordance with SFAS No. 142 which requires goodwill
to be tested for impairment on an annual basis (and
more frequently in certain circumstances) and written
down when impaired. We completed our transitional
testing for goodwill impairment upon adoption of SFAS
142, and our annual testing for fiscal 2004
determined that our recorded goodwill was not
impaired. However, in fiscal 2005 it was determined
that the goodwill in our commercial microelectronic
reporting unit in Phoenix and our display reporting
unit in Oregon were impaired. Accordingly, we wrote
down the related goodwill by approximately $11.4
million. In fiscal 2006, it was determined that our
interface electronics reporting unit in the display
segment was impaired. Accordingly, we wrote down all
$0.4 million of the unamortized IDS acquisition
goodwill related to this  

28 

Table of Contents   

reporting unit. Goodwill
recorded was $5.3 million and $5.7 million at
September 30, 2006 and October 1, 2005, respectively.
See Notes 2 and 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for information relating to the
goodwill impairment. Furthermore, SFAS 142 requires
purchased intangible assets other than goodwill to be
amortized over their useful lives unless these lives
are determined to be indefinite. Purchased
intangible assets are carried at cost less
accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed
over the estimated useful lives of the respective
assets, generally two to fifteen years. We also
regularly evaluate intangible assets for impairment
pursuant to SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to be Disposed Of,  and evaluate the continued
appropriateness of estimated future lives assigned to
these assets. 

With the adoption of SFAS 123(R) on October 2, 2005,
we are required to record the fair value of
stock-based compensation awards as an expense. In
order to determine the fair value of stock options on
the date of grant, the Company applies the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Inherent in this
model are assumptions related to expected price
volatility, option life, risk-free interest rate and
dividend yield. While the risk-free interest rate
and dividend yield are less subjective assumptions,
typically based on factual data derived from public
sources, the expected stock price volatility and
option life assumptions require a greater level of
judgment which makes them critical accounting
estimates. 

We account for income taxes in accordance with SFAS
No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes  ( SFAS 109 )
which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets
and liabilities for the expected future tax
consequences of temporary differences between the
financial statement carrying amounts and the tax
bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets
are recognized, net of any valuation allowance, for
deductible temporary differences and net operating
loss and tax credit carry forwards. We regularly
review our deferred tax assets for recoverability
and, if necessary, establish a valuation allowance.
During the ordinary course of business, there are
transactions and calculations for which the ultimate
tax determination is uncertain. We establish
reserves for tax related uncertainties based on
estimates of whether, and the extent to which,
additional taxes and interest will be due. These
reserves are established when, despite our belief
that our tax return positions are fully supportable,
we believe that certain positions are likely to be
challenged and may not be sustained on review by tax
authorities. We adjust these reserves in light of
changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing
of a tax audit. The provision for income taxes
includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes
to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well
as the related net interest. 

29 

Table of Contents   

Results of Operations 

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain operating data expressed as a
percentage of net sales:

Fiscal Year ended September 30, 2006 compared to Fiscal Year ended October 1, 2005 

Net Sales 

Net sales were $108.9 million for the year ended September 30, 2006, a decrease of $8.1 million, or
approximately 7%, from $117.0 million for the year ended October 1, 2005.

Military/industrial sales in the microelectronic segment were
$40.4 million for the year ended September 30, 2006, an increase
of $2.6 million, or approximately 7%, from $37.8 million for the
year ended October 1, 2005. We expect sales to
military/industrial customers to remain consistent in fiscal 2007
as compared to fiscal 2006. 

Commercial sales in the microelectronic segment were $19.8 million
for the year ended September 30, 2006, a decrease of $6.5 million,
or approximately 25%, from $26.3 million for the year ended
October 1, 2005. The decline was primarily attributable to lower
average selling prices reflecting decreased material costs and
lower demand of our product due to decreased business for some our
customers which in turn decreased their orders from us. However,
we anticipate commercial sales in the microelectronic segment to
grow slightly in fiscal 2007. 

Military/industrial sales in the display segment were $11.8
million for the year ended September 30, 2006, an increase of $0.3
million, or approximately 3%, from $11.5 million for the year
ended October 1, 2005. The slight increase was due to increased
requirements for products used in the commercial aviation
industry. We expect military/industrial sales in the display
segment in fiscal 2007 to be consistent with sales in fiscal 2006. 

Commercial sales in the display segment were $36.9 million for the
year ended September 30, 2006, a decrease of $4.5 million, or
approximately 11%, from $41.4 million for the year ended October
1, 2005. The decrease from the prior year is attributable to
decreased sales to NCR of $8.7 million and to Whirlpool of $1.1
million compared to the prior year, as well as decreased orders
from our other appliance customers, partially offset by  

30 

Table of Contents   

increased sales to Hewlett Packard Company of $8.6 million during the
period. We expect commercial sales in the display segment to
increase in fiscal 2007. 

In fiscal 2006, On Command Corporation accounted for approximately $7.4 million, or 12%, of our
microelectronic segment net sales as compared to $9.3 million, or 15%, and $3.7 million, or 6%, of
our 2005 and 2004 microelectronic segment net sales, respectively. No other customer accounted for
more than 10% of microelectronic segment net sales for these periods.

In fiscal 2006, Hewlett Packard Company accounted for approximately $8.6 million, or 18%, of our
display segment net sales. There were no sales to Hewlett Packard in fiscal 2005 or 2004. In
2006, NCR accounted for approximately $0.6 million, or 1%, of our display segment net sales as
compared to $9.3 million, or 18%, and $0.5 million, or 2%, of our 2005 and 2004 display segment net
sales, respectively. In 2006, Whirlpool accounted for approximately $3.8 million, or 8%, of our
display segment net sales as compared to $4.9 million, or 9%, and $5.8 million, or 12%, of our 2005
and 2004 display segment net sales, respectively.

The majority of our commercial sales are not subject to seasonal fluctuations over the course of a
year. Sales of our membrane keypad products, which totaled approximately $9.9 million in fiscal
2006 and $12.3 million in fiscal 2005, are subject to seasonal fluctuations relating to home
appliance sales in the spring and fall. Our military sales tend to follow the government s fiscal
year, which ends in September, and are typically less in the first quarter of our fiscal year and
more in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year.

Gross Profit 

Gross profit was $33.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2006, a decrease of $1.5 million or
approximately 4% from $34.7 million for the year ended October 1, 2005. Gross margin as a
percentage of net sales was approximately 31% for the year ended September 30, 2006, compared to
approximately 30% for the year ended October 1, 2005.

Gross profit for the microelectronic segment was $23.1 million for the year ended September 30,
2006, a decrease of $1.5 million, or approximately 6%, from $24.6 million for the year ended
October 1, 2005. The majority of the decrease in gross profit came from a decrease in commercial
gross profit in the microelectronic segment as a result of lower sales volume which resulted in a
lower absorption of overhead. Gross margin as a percentage of microelectronic segment net sales was
approximately 38% for the year ended September 30, 2006, consistent with the year ended October 1,
2005. The higher percentage of military/industrial sales, which historically have a higher selling
price and higher gross margin than commercial products, helped to maintain the overall gross margin
percentage in fiscal 2006.

Gross profit for the display segment was $10.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2006,
consistent with the year ended October 1, 2005. Gross margin as a percentage of display segment
net sales was approximately 21% for the year ended September 30, 2006, compared to approximately
19% for the year ended October 1, 2005. The increase in the gross margin was primarily the result
of our decision in fiscal 2005 not to pursue future business in
low margin products as we continue to come under pressure from both domestic and Asian competition.
While we continue to implement business and manufacturing strategies to improve our competitive
position, it may be difficult to improve current gross margins in the future.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 

Selling, general and administrative expenses consist mainly of compensation expense, selling
expenses, including commissions, information technology expenses and corporate administrative
expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $19.0 million for the year ended
September 30, 2006, a decrease of $0.7 million, or approximately 4%, from $19.7 million for the
year ended October 1, 2005. This decrease was due to a decrease in selling expenses of $1.0
million, offset by a $0.3 million increase in general and administrative expenses over the
comparable period. Selling expenses decreased primarily due to lower commissions as a result of
lower sales and a change in commission structure. General and administrative expenses increased
mainly because of $0.4 million of compensation expense related to share-based awards due to the
adoption of SFAS 123(R).

31 

Table of Contents   

As a percentage of net sales,  s elling, general and administrative expenses have remained generally
consistent with the prior year at approximately 17% of net sales. Due to the continued compliance
requirements related to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the expense related to the adoption of SFAS
123(R), we expect selling, general and administrative expenses to average between 16% and 18% of
net sales.

Research and Development Expenses 

Research and development expenses consist primarily of compensation for our engineering personnel,
consulting expenses and project materials. Research and development expenses were $6.6 million for
the year ended September 30, 2006, an increase of $1.0 million, or 17%, as compared to $5.6 million
for the year ended October 1, 2005. The increase was primarily attributable to increased
expenditures for our next generation anti-tamper, tablet PC and touch screen tablet PC technologies
and expanded technical resources. Research and development expenses as a percentage of net sales
have been approximately 5% to 6% of net sales over the past three years. We are committed to the
research and development of new and existing products and expect research and development expenses
to remain at approximately the same percentage of net sales in the future.

Ongoing product development projects for the microelectronic segment include new packaging designs
for various types of memory products including DRAM, DDR II memory modules, flash and
microprocessors, along with microprocessor modules and ball grid array packaging products using
these semiconductors; continuing development of anti-tamper technology for microelectronic
products; next generation memory and power PC products assembled in various multi-chip packages to
be used in both commercial and military markets; and qualification of new semiconductor products.
Ongoing product development projects for the display segment include glass lamination process
technology, high volume glass lamination ( HVGL ) for tablet PCs, our new Max-Vu  process
technology for tablet personal computers, next generation touch screen tablet PCs and display
systems development.

Amortization of Intangible Assets 

Intangible asset amortization for the years ended September 30, 2006 and October 1, 2005 totaled
$0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively, entirely related to intangible assets acquired from
IDS.

Goodwill Impairment 

Due to the less than expected financial performance in our interface electronics product line in
Columbus, Ohio, we tested the goodwill for impairment in the third quarter of fiscal 2006. As a
result of this testing, we found indicators of impairment related to this reporting unit.
Accordingly, we wrote down all $0.4 million of the unamortized IDS acquisition goodwill related to
the interface electronics reporting unit in the display segment.

During our annual testing of goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter of 2005 in accordance
with SFAS 142, we found indicators of impairment for our commercial microelectronics reporting unit
in Phoenix, Arizona and our display reporting unit in Hillsboro, Oregon from the former IDS and
Panelview acquisitions. Accordingly, we wrote down goodwill by $11.4 million in the fourth quarter
of 2005.

See Notes 2 and 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information relating to
the goodwill impairments.

Interest Income 

Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash balances invested primarily in a money
market account. Interest income was $2.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2006, an
increase of $1.1 million compared to $1.1 million for the year ended October 1, 2005. This
increase was attributable to the increase in invested balances between periods, primarily as a
result of the reinvestment of cash flows from operations, and increased interest rates.

32 

Table of Contents   

Income Taxes 

Income tax expense consists of current and deferred federal and state income taxes. Income tax
expense was $3.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2006, compared to $2.0 million for the
year ended October 1, 2005. The effective tax rate was approximately 33% for the year ended
September 30, 2006, compared to (134%) for the year ended October 1, 2005. The Company s effective
tax rate differs from the federal statutory tax rate of 34% due to the impact of state
taxes and the goodwill impairment which has no income tax benefit, and is decreased by reductions
for foreign sales exclusions, a new manufacturers  deduction and research and experimentation tax
credits. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For fiscal 2005, the effective rate of (134%) differed from the statutory tax rate of 34% due to
the incremental impact of state taxes and the $11.4 million goodwill impairment which has no income
tax benefit, partially offset by reductions for foreign sales exclusions, research and
experimentation tax credits, and the adjustment of tax reserves.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Internal Revenue Service completed its examination of
our federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended September 28, 2002 and September 27,
2003. Based on the results of the examination, we decreased previously recorded tax reserves by
approximately $0.8 million and decreased income tax expense by a corresponding amount in fiscal
2005.

In October 2004, Congress passed the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the  Act ), which will
eliminate the extraterritorial income exclusion, and will provide a deduction from taxable income
equal to a stipulated percentage of qualified income from domestic production activities, referred
to as the manufacturer deduction. The extraterritorial income exclusion will be phased out through
2006, and the manufacturer deduction will be phased in through 2010. Additionally, the federal
research and experimentation credit expired on December 31, 2005. However, on December 9, 2006,
Congress extended the research and experimentation credit through December 31, 2007 and made it
retroactive to January 1, 2006, subject to the expected signing
by the President of the United States. Due to the provisions of SFAS 109, we will record the benefit of
the retroactive portion in the fiscal quarter that the bill is enacted.

Fiscal Year ended October 1, 2005 compared to Fiscal Year ended October 2, 2004 

Net Sales 

Net sales were $117.0 million for the year ended October 1, 2005, an increase of $8.0 million, or
7%, from $109.0 million for the year ended October 2, 2004.

Military/industrial sales in the microelectronic segment were
$37.8 million for the year ended October 1, 2005, an increase of
$1.5 million, or approximately 4%, from $36.3 million for the year
ended October 2, 2004. 

Commercial sales in the microelectronic segment were $26.3 million
for the year ended October 1, 2005, an increase of $1.9 million,
or approximately 8%, from $24.4 million for the year ended October
2, 2004. The growth was primarily attributable to products used
in the high-end server applications and product sold to a hotel
industry supplier for their entertainment video systems. 

Military/industrial sales in the display segment were
$11.5 million for the year ended October 1, 2005, a
decrease of $0.2 million, or approximately 2%, from
$11.8 million for the year ended October 2, 2004.
The slight decrease was due to decreased requirements
for products used in the commercial aviation
industry. 

Commercial sales in the display segment were $41.4
million for the year ended October 1, 2005, an
increase of $4.9 million, or approximately 13%, from
$36.5 million for the year ended October 2, 2004.
The increase from prior year is attributable to
increased sales to NCR of $9.3 million and $2.7
million of our tablet personal computer products over
the prior year, partially offset by decreased sales
to other customers during the period. 

33 

Table of Contents   

On Command Corporation accounted for approximately $9.3 million, or 15% of our 2005 microelectronic
segment sales as compared to $3.7 million, or 6% in 2004 microelectronic segment sales. Northrop
Grumman accounted for approximately $1.9 million, or 3% of our 2005 microelectronic segment sales
as compared to approximately $2.6 million, or 4%, of our 2004 microelectronic segment sales. No
other customer accounted for more than 10% of segment or total net sales for these periods.

In 2005, NCR accounted for approximately $9.3 million, or 18%, of our display segment net sales as
compared to $0.5 million or approximately 2% of our display sales in 2004. In 2005, $4.9 million,
or 9%, of our display segment net sales came from Whirlpool as compared to approximately $5.8
million, or 12%, in 2004. We had no sales from Garmin in fiscal 2005, and approximately $1.1
million, or 1%, of 2004 net sales for our display segment came from Garmin, while GE Medical
accounted for approximately $2.9 million, or 5%, of 2005 display segment net sales compared to $3.0
million, or 6%, of 2004 display segment net sales. Our sales to Garmin and GE Medical declined
significantly during fiscal 2004 due to a shift in their manufacturing strategies.

The majority of our commercial sales are not subject to seasonal fluctuations over the course of a
year. Sales of our membrane keypad products, which totaled approximately $12.3 million in fiscal
2005 and $12.0 million in fiscal 2004, are subject to seasonal fluctuations relating to home
appliance sales in the spring and fall. Our military sales tend to follow the government s fiscal
year, which ends in September, and are typically less in the first quarter of our fiscal year and
strong in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year.

Gross Profit 

Gross profit was $34.7 million for the year ended October 1, 2005, an increase of $3.0 million or
approximately 10% from $31.7 million for the year ended October 2, 2004 . Gross margin as a
percentage of net sales was approximately 30% for the year ended October 1, 2005, compared to
approximately 29% for the year ended October 2, 2004.

Gross profit for the microelectronic segment was $24.6 million for the year ended October 1, 2005,
an increase of $3.2 million, or approximately 15%, from $21.4 million for the year ended October 2,
2004. The majority of the increase in gross profit came from an increase in military/industrial
sales in the microelectronic segment as a result of changes in product mix, lower manufacturing
costs, and higher sales volume. Gross margin as a percentage of microelectronic segment net sales
was approximately 38% for the year ended October 1, 2005, compared to approximately 35% for the
year ended October 2, 2004. The product mix in the microelectronic segment shifted to a greater
number of military products, which historically have a higher selling price and higher gross margin
than commercial products.

Gross profit for the display segment was $10.1 million for the year ended October 1, 2005, a
decrease of $0.1 million, or approximately 1%, from $10.2 million for the year ended October 2,
2004. Gross margin as a percentage of display segment net sales was approximately 19% for the year
ended October 1, 2005, compared to approximately 21% for the year ended October 2, 2004. The
decrease in gross margin was the result of the higher costs of acquiring initial inventory in
connection with the start-up of new programs. We have seen the inventory costs as a percentage of
net sales decrease as sales volumes have increased for such programs and component prices have
decreased during the fiscal year. Other product mix also contributed to the decline in display
segment gross margins.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 

Selling, general and administrative expenses consist mainly of compensation expense, selling
expenses, including commissions, information technology expenses and corporate administrative
expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $19.7 million for the year ended
October 1, 2005, an increase of $1.2 million, or approximately 7%, from $18.5 million for the year
ended October 2, 2004. This increase was due to a $1.5 million increase in general and
administrative expenses, offset by a decrease in selling expenses of $0.3 million over the
comparable period. General and administrative expenses increased mainly because of higher
professional fees of $0.6 million in connection with compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Act, $0.8
million for compensation and $0.2 million related to an abandoned acquisition. We incurred
approximately $0.9 million in external costs in fiscal 2005 related to compliance with the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Selling expenses decreased primarily due to lower commissions.

34 

Table of Contents   

Research and Development Expenses 

Research and development expenses consist primarily of compensation for our engineering personnel,
consulting expenses and project materials. Research and development expenses were $5.6 million for
the year ended October 1, 2005, a decrease of $0.4 million, or 7%, as compared to $6.0 million for
the year ended October 2, 2004. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease of $0.4
million in our display segment due to completion of product
development projects.

Amortization of Intangible Assets 

Intangible asset amortization for the years ended October 1, 2005 and October 2, 2004 totaled $0.6
million and $0.7 million, respectively, entirely related to intangible assets acquired from
IDS.

Goodwill Impairment 

During our annual testing of goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter of 2005 in accordance
with SFAS 142, we found indicators of impairment for our commercial microelectronics reporting unit
in Phoenix and our display reporting unit in Oregon from the former IDS and Panelview acquisitions.
Accordingly, we wrote down goodwill by $11.4 million in the fourth quarter. See Notes 2 and 7 of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information relating to the goodwill
impairment.

Interest Income 

Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash balances invested primarily in a money
market account. Interest income was $1.1 million for the year ended October 1, 2005, an increase
of $0.6 million compared to $0.5 million for the year ended October 2, 2004. This increase was
attributable to the increase in invested balances between periods, primarily as a result of the
reinvestment of cash flows from operations, and increased interest rates.

Income Taxes 

Income tax expense consists of current and deferred federal and state income taxes. Income tax
expense was $2.0 million for the year ended October 1, 2005, compared to $2.1 million for the year
ended October 2, 2004. The effective tax rate was approximately (134%) for the year ended October
1, 2005, compared to approximately 31% for the year ended October 2, 2004. The Company s effective
tax rate differs from the federal statutory tax rate of 34% due to state taxes and the impact of
the $11.4 million goodwill impairment which has no income tax benefit, partially offset by
reductions for foreign sales exclusions, research and experimentation tax credits, and the
adjustment of tax reserves. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Internal Revenue Service
completed its examination of our federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended September
28, 2002 and September 27, 2003. Based on the results of the examination, we have decreased
previously recorded tax reserves by approximately $0.8 million and decreased income tax expense by
a corresponding amount.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Cash on hand as of September 30, 2006 totaled approximately $55.8 million and was primarily
invested in a money market account. During fiscal year 2006, cash provided by operating activities
was approximately $9.4 million versus $16.1 million in fiscal 2005. The decrease was primarily due
to a decrease in net income before the non-cash goodwill impairment charges, as well as decreases
in deferred income taxes and accrued expenses and deferred revenue. Depreciation and amortization
totaled approximately $4.2 million and $4.1 million for fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. We
expect depreciation and amortization to increase in fiscal 2007 now that we have completed the
leasehold improvements related to the consolidation of our two Phoenix locations.

Accounts receivable decreased approximately $0.4 million from fiscal year 2005, primarily as a
result of a corresponding decrease in fourth quarter net sales of $0.3 million from the quarter
ended October 1, 2005. Days sales outstanding at September 30, 2006 was 64 days, which was higher
than the 61 days at October 1, 2005,

35 

Table of Contents   

primarily as a result of higher international sales which have
longer payment cycles. Our days sales outstanding typically approximate 60 days.

Inventories decreased approximately $0.2 million from fiscal year 2005. Inventory of approximately
$19.4 million as of September 30, 2006 represents 94 days of inventory on hand, an increase from 87
days on hand at October 1, 2005. The levels of inventory fluctuate based on changes in expected
production requirements, the fulfillment of orders and availability of raw materials. Inventory
amounts will generally take several quarters to adjust to significant changes in future sales.
Also, as lead times for raw materials increase, we are required to purchase larger amounts of
inventory per order and hold it for longer periods of time. This would have the effect of
increasing our days inventory on hand. We expect to fund any increases in inventory caused by
sales growth or manufacturing planning requirements from our cash balances and operating cash
flows.

Accrued expenses as of September 30, 2006 decreased approximately $2.2 million from the end of
fiscal 2005. Accrued salaries and benefits were approximately $0.3 million lower at September 30,
2006 compared to the end of fiscal 2005 due to lower accrued compensation. Other accrued expenses
were approximately $2.1 million lower, primarily due to the timing of income tax payments and lower
commissions. Deferred revenue at September 30, 2006 was approximately $2.0 million, and included
approximately $1.5 million of advance payments from customers and approximately $0.1 million of
revenue relating to inventory held at a reseller.

Purchases of property, plant and equipment during the year ended September 30, 2006 totaled
approximately $4.1 million, with less than $0.1 million remaining in accounts payable at year-end.
During this period, the purchases included $3.6 million for our microelectronic manufacturing
facilities, primarily for production equipment and leasehold improvements, and $0.5 million for our
display and interface manufacturing facilities.

In connection with our decision to consolidate our Phoenix locations, we entered into a new
ten-year operating lease for the expanded headquarters/microelectronic building in fiscal 2005.
The project and the consolidation were completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and we
incurred approximately $4.1 million in improvements. We also put the Flower Street land and
building in Phoenix on the market. We expect proceeds from the sale of the land and building to
exceed our net book value of approximately $1.9 million as of September 30, 2006; however, we do
not expect any ultimate gain or loss to have a material impact on our consolidated results of
operations.

We maintain a pension plan for eligible union employees at our Fort Wayne, Indiana facility
pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial
statements for additional information. We expect to fund our pension obligation through returns on
plan assets and our contributions to the plan over the next several years. Actual contributions
will be dependent on the actual investment returns during that period. There were no contributions
to the plan in fiscal 2006. We believe that funding the plan over the next several years will not
significantly impact our liquidity.

An additional $0.5 million of cash was received pursuant to common stock options exercised
throughout fiscal year 2006.

On June 19, 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program pursuant to which up
to 5%, or 1,231,108 shares, of our outstanding common stock may be repurchased from time to time.
The duration of the repurchase program is open-ended and is being implemented through a Rule 10b5-1
Stock Purchase Plan. Under the program, the Company can purchase shares of common stock through
the open market on a daily basis at prices equal to or less than $5.50 per share without further
approval by the Board. The timing and amount of repurchase transactions under this program will
depend on market conditions and corporate and regulatory
considerations. Through September 30, 2006, we have purchased 241,145 shares of our common stock
for $1.2 million under the program. We expect to fund all stock purchases from our cash balances
and operating cash flows.

We have a $12.0 million revolving line of credit with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Borrowings under
the line of credit bear interest at the lower of the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) plus
1.5%, or the JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.  prime rate . The line of credit expires on March 31, 2007.
We are currently negotiating the terms and conditions of a new credit facility with JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. We are in compliance with all debt covenant requirements contained in our line of
credit agreement. As of September 30, 2006, there were no borrowings against the line of credit,
and we have not borrowed against the line of credit since April 2003.

36 

Table of Contents   

We believe that our existing sources of liquidity, including expected cash flows from operating
activities, existing cash balances, existing credit facilities and other financing sources, will
satisfy our cash requirements for at least the next twelve months.

Contractual Obligations 

We have entered into certain long-term contractual obligations that will require various payments
over future periods as follows:

(1)  
       
     We are committed to meeting the annual minimum funding requirements relating to our
pension plan, which covers approximately 32 employees at our Ft. Wayne facility. We cannot
estimate expected minimum funding requirements at this time. We may also make contributions
to the pension fund in excess of the minimum funding requirements during any year. See Note
12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the pension
fund. 

Contingencies 

On July 22, 2004, July 29, 2004, August 6, 2004 and August 20, 2004, shareholder class action
lawsuits entitled  McJimsey v. White Electronic Designs Corporation, et al.  (Case No.
CV04-1499-PHX-SRB),  Afework v. White Electronic Designs Corporation, et al  (Case No.
CV04-1558-PHX-JWS),  Anders v. White Electronic Designs Corporation, et al.  (Case No.
CV04-1632-PHX-JAT), and  Sammarco v. White Electronic Designs Corporation, et al.  (Case No.
CV04-1744-PHX-EHC), respectively, were filed in the United States District Court for the District
of Arizona against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors (the
 Defendants ). The actions were consolidated and the Wayne County Employees  Retirement System was
appointed as lead plaintiff. A consolidated complaint was filed on or about February 14, 2005.
The Defendants  motions to dismiss the consolidated complaint was granted on February 14, 2006.
The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on April 17, 2006 (the  Complaint ). Like the dismissed
complaint, the new Complaint alleges, among other things, that between January 23, 2003 and June 9,
2004, the Company made false and misleading statements concerning its financial results and
business, and issued a misleading registration statement and prospectus in connection with the
Company s July 2003 secondary offering. The Complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages.
Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the new Complaint in June 2006. While Defendants  motions
were pending, the parties reached an agreement to settle the lawsuit. Pursuant to the terms of the
agreement, the Company s insurance carrier will pay the entire
$5.7 million settlement amount (of which at least
$0.7 million will come from the derivative settlement agreement
described below). The
agreement, which must be approved by the Court, has been submitted to the Court for preliminary
approval. The Court has not set a hearing date on the request for preliminary approval. If
preliminary approval is granted, then the members of the class will be notified and allowed an
opportunity to object before the Court grants final approval of the agreement. The Company has
recorded a liability in our financial statements for the proposed amount of the settlement. In
addition, because the insurance carrier has agreed to pay the entire $5.7 million settlement and
recovery from the insurance carrier is probable, a receivable has also been recorded for the same
amount. Accordingly, there is no impact to the statements of operations or cash flows because the
amounts of the settlement and the insurance recovery fully offset each other.

On August 12, 2004 and August 19, 2004, purported derivative actions entitled  Dodt v. Shokrgozar,
et al.  (Case No. CV04-1674-PHX-NVW) and  Christ v. Shokrgozar, et al.  (Case No. CV04-1722-PHX-MHM),
respectively, were filed in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona against
current and former directors and officers of the Company. The Company was also named as a nominal
defendant in both actions. The complaints alleged that between January 2003 and the date the
complaints were filed, defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the Company by causing the
Company to misrepresent its financial results and prospects. The complaints alleged claims for
breach of fiduciary duty, gross mismanagement, abuse of control, waste of corporate assets, insider
selling, and unjust enrichment, and sought unspecified damages, equitable relief, and restitution
against the individual defendants. On June 7, 2005, the Court dismissed the Dodt action and on June
15, 2005, the Court dismissed the

37 

Table of Contents   

Christ action. Mr. Dodt has appealed the dismissal of his
complaint. Mr. Dodt filed an appellate brief in June 2006. The Company s response to Mr. Dodt s
brief was filed on July 28, 2006. While plaintiff s appeal
was pending, the parties reached an agreement to settle the lawsuit. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, the
Company s insurance carrier would pay the entire $300,000
settlement amount (total amount of the settlement is $1.0 million; $0.7 million of which will
be used to fund a portion of the $5.7 million class action
settlement described above). The agreement, which must be approved by
the Court will be submitted to the Court for preliminary approval. If
preliminary approval is granted, then shareholders will be notified
and allowed an opportunity to object before the Court grants final
approval of the agreement. The Company has recorded a liability in
our financial statements for the amount of the settlement. In addition, because the
insurance carrier has agreed to pay the entire $300,000 settlement and recovery from the insurance
carrier is probable, a receivable has also been recorded for the same amount. Accordingly, there
is no impact to the statements of operations or cash flows because the amounts of the settlement
and the insurance recovery fully offset each other.

In addition, from time to time, the Company is subject to claims and litigation incident to its
business. There are currently no such pending proceedings to which the Company is a party that the
Company believes will have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated results of
operations, liquidity, or financial condition.

38 

Table of Contents   

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs   an amendment of ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4.  This Statement amends the guidance in Accounting Research Bulletin ( ARB ) No. 43,
Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility
expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). This Statement requires that
those items be recognized as current period charges regardless of whether they meet the criterion
of abnormal. In addition, this Statement requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to
the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The
provisions of this Statement are now in effect for inventory costs incurred in fiscal 2006. The
implementation of this Statement has not had a material impact on the Company s consolidated
financial condition or results of operations.

In March 2005, the FASB issued Financial Interpretation ( FIN ) No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional
Asset Retirement Obligations.  This interpretation clarifies that the term  conditional asset
retirement obligation  as used in SFAS No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, 
refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and/or
method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of
the entity. Accordingly, an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a
conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably
estimated. The Company implemented FIN No. 47 effective September 30, 2006. The implementation of
this Statement has not had a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial condition or
results of operations.

In July 2006, the FASB issued FIN No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes.  The
interpretation applies to all tax positions related to income taxes subject to FASB Statement No.
109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income
taxes by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold in determining if a tax position should be
reflected in the financial statements. Only tax positions that meet the  more likely than not 
recognition threshold may be recognized. The interpretation also provides guidance on
classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition
requirements for uncertain tax positions. FIN No. 48 will be effective for the Company s fiscal
year ending September 29, 2007. The Company is currently evaluating the impact FIN No. 48 will
have on its financial condition and results of operations.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements.  This standard
establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value, sets out a framework for measuring
fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 applies to fair
value measurements already required or permitted by existing standards. SFAS No. 157 will be
effective for the Company s fiscal year beginning September 28, 2008. SFAS No. 157 is currently
being evaluated by the Company and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s
financial condition or results of operations; however, additional disclosures may be required
regarding the inputs used to develop the measurements and the effect of certain of the measurements
on changes in net assets from period to period.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension
and Other Postretirement Plans-an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R).  This
pronouncement requires an employer to recognize the over-funded or under-funded status of a defined
benefit postretirement plan (other than a multiemployer plan) as an asset or liability. SFAS No.
158 also requires an employer to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the
changes occur through comprehensive income. In addition, this statement requires an employer to
measure the funded status of a plan as of the date of its year-end, with limited exceptions. SFAS
No. 158 will be effective for the Company s fiscal year ending September 29, 2007. The Company is
currently evaluating the impact SFAS No. 158 will have on the Company s financial condition and
results of operations.

ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

As of September 30, 2006, we had no borrowings on our revolving line of credit with JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. Should we borrow against the line, interest charged on these borrowings would be at the
lower of the JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.  prime rate  or the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR )
plus 1.5%. During fiscal 2006, the bank s prime rate averaged 7.68% and was 8.25% as of September
30, 2006.

39 

Table of Contents   

We are subject to changes in the prime rate based on Federal Reserve actions and general market
interest fluctuations. We are also subject to fluctuations in the LIBOR. As of September 30,
2006, the LIBOR was approximately 5.30%. Should we begin borrowing against the credit line, annual
interest expense (at 6.80%) would be approximately $68,000 for every $1.0 million borrowed. A
hypothetical 1% increase in the interest rate would increase interest expense by approximately
$10,000 per $1.0 million borrowed on an annual basis. We believe that moderate interest rate
increases will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations,
liquidity or financial position.

We believe that we are not subject in any material way to other forms of market risk, such as
foreign currency exchange risk on foreign customer purchase orders (we accept payment in U.S.
dollars only) or commodity price risk.

ITEM 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The financial statements and supplementary data required by Regulation S-X are included under Part
IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 9 
       
     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.  We have evaluated, under the supervision and
with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures
(as that term is defined under Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934), as amended (the  Exchange Act ). Based upon this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, our
disclosure controls and procedures are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information
required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded
accurately, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules
and forms.

40 

Table of Contents   

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  There were no significant changes in
our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during our last fiscal quarter that
have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
financial reporting.

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and for the assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Because of inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projection of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with internal control policies or procedures
may deteriorate.

Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
has undertaken an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting as of September 30, 2006 based on criteria established in  Internal Control-Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ).
Based on this evaluation under the COSO framework, management has concluded that the Company s
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30, 2006.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the
Company s consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, has also
audited management s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 and the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, as stated in their report which appears
in the  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  on page 49 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 9B OTHER INFORMATION

Annual
Salary Increases 

On December 13, 2006, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors increased the annual
salary of our named executive officers as follows:

Name 
       
     Title 
       
     Salary 

Roger A. Derse

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary, Treasurer

$ 
     220,500 

Cash
Bonuses 

Also, the Compensation Committee approved fiscal year 2006 discretionary cash bonus payments
to executive officers in the following amounts set forth below opposite the name of such officer:

Name 
       
     Title 
       
     Bonus 

Hamid R. Shokrgozar

President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board

$ 
     25,000 

Roger A. Derse

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary, Treasurer

$ 
     10,000 

Dante V. Tarantine

Executive Vice President, Sales   Marketing

$ 
     7,500 

Bonuses were awarded in accordance with the policy established by the Board of Directors and
the Compensation Committee. Base salaries and participation in cash bonus plans may be adjusted
from time to time as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

Change
in Control Agreements 

On December 13, 2006, the Company entered into change in control agreements (the  Change in Control
Agreements ) with Dan Tarantine, our Vice-President, Sales   Marketing, and Roger A. Derse, our
Chief Financial Officer (each an  Executive ). The Change in Control Agreements were designed to
diminish the distractions that could result from uncertainties associated with a change in control
of the Company by providing the Executives with certain assurances.

The Change in Control Agreements are effective as of December 13, 2006 and will continue in effect
as long as the Executive is actively employed by the Company, unless otherwise agreed in writing by
each party. The Change in Control Agreements provide that, in the event there is a  change in
control  of the Company (as defined in the Change in Control Agreements) and the Executive s
employment with the Company is terminated without  cause  (as defined in the Change in Control
Agreements) at any time within twelve months following the change if control, the Executive shall
receive a severance payment equal to the greater of the Executive s highest annual base salary and
bonus of the two years immediately prior to the change in control. The severance payments are
generally subject to the employee signing a general release and will be paid without regard to the
Executive seeking or obtaining alternative employment. The Change in Control Agreements also
provide that any stock options of the Company granted to the Executive shall accelerate and become
vested upon a  change in control  of the Company. In addition, the Change in Control Agreements
provide that the Executive is entitled to certain health benefits for twelve months following the
Executive s termination. In order to avoid any excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal
Revenue Code, the parties have agreed to a ceiling on benefits to be received pursuant to the
Change in Control Agreements, to the extent required by the regulations of such section.

Extension
of Credit Facility 

We have a
$12.0 million revolving line of credit with JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. Borrowings under the line of credit bear interest at the lower
of the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) plus 1.5%, or
the JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.  prime rate.  An Amendment
effective December 11, 2006 to the JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Loan and Security Agreement dated January 7, 2000 extended the
termination date and maturity date on the line of credit to
March 31, 2007. We are currently negotiating the terms and
conditions of a new credit facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. A
commitment fee of 0.25% is charged on the unused portion of the line.
The Company is in compliance with all debt covenant requirements
contained in its line of credit agreement. As of September 30,
2006, there were no borrowings against the line of credit, and we
have not borrowed against the line of credit since April 2003.

41 

Table of Contents   

PART III 

ITEM 10 DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this Item for our directors is set forth in our 2007 Proxy Statement
(which will be filed with the Securities Exchange Commission no later than 120 days following our
2006 fiscal year-end or will be filed in an amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K) relating
to our annual meeting of shareholders to be held on March 7, 2007 (the  2007 Proxy Statement ),
and is incorporated herein by this reference as if set forth in full.

The information required by this Item for our executive officers is set forth under Part I, Item 4,
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under the subheading  Our Executive Officers .

We have adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that applies to all of our executive
officers, corporate controller and division controllers. A copy of the Code of Ethics and Business
Conduct is posted on our internet web site at  www.wedc.com . If we make any amendment to,
or grant any waivers of, a provision of the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that applies to our
principal executive officer, principal financial officer, director of financial reporting and
compliance, corporate controller or division controllers where such amendment or waiver is required
to be disclosed under applicable SEC rules, we intend to disclose such amendment or waiver and the
reasons therefore on our internet web site. In addition, any waiver of a provision of the Code of
Ethics and Business Conduct applicable to any of our directors or executive officers will be
disclosed on Form 8-K as required by the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules.

ITEM 11 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this Item is set forth in the 2007 Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by this reference as if set forth in full.

ITEM 12 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS 

The information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K under this Item is set forth in the 2007
Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in full.

42 

Table of Contents   

Equity Compensation Plan Information 

The following table provides information as of September 30, 2006, with respect to the shares of
the Company s common stock that may be issued under the Company s existing equity compensation
plans:

(1) 
       
     Equity compensation plans approved by security holders include the 1994 Flexible Stock Plan, as
amended, the 2001 Director Stock Plan, the Amendment to Company s Stock Plan for Non-Employee
Directors and the 2006 Director Restricted Stock Plan. 

(2) 
       
     Equity Compensation Plans not approved by security holders include the following plans: 

Shokrgozar Plan    During fiscal 2000, the Company s Board of Directors approved an independent
grant to Mr. Shokrgozar for a nonqualified stock option to purchase up to 125,000 shares of common
stock at an exercise price of
$2.75 per share, vesting over four years. At September 30, 2006, 125,000 shares from this
independent option right were still under option.

2000 Broad Based Non-qualified Stock Plan    During fiscal 2001, the Company s Board of Directors
approved the 2000 Broad Based Non-qualified Stock Plan, which provides for the issuance of options
to purchase shares of Common Stock at an exercise price equal to the fair market value at the date
of grant. As of September 30, 2006, 4,827 shares were available for grant and 733,475 granted
options were unexercised.

IDS Plan    The Company assumed the IDS Stock Option Plan and 169,000 warrants with the acquisition
of IDS in January, 2003. As of September 30, 2006, 46,969 granted options were unexercised and no
shares were available for grant, and 118,850 warrants were unexercised.

ITEM 13 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this Item is set forth in the 2007 Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by this reference as if set forth in full.

ITEM 14 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this Item is set forth in the 2007 Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by this reference as if set forth in full.

43 

Table of Contents   

PART IV 

ITEM 15 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)(1) Financial Statements 

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules 

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

Financial Schedule 
       
     Page 

Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves

78 

(a)(3) Exhibits 

Exhibit  

Number  
       
      Description  

2.1

Agreement and Plan of Merger dated May 3, 1998 by and among Bowmar Instrument Corporation and
Electronic Designs, Inc. and Bravo Acquisition Subsidiary, Inc. (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 2 to the current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 6, 1998.) 

2.2

Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger dated June 9, 1998 (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 2.1A to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on June 11, 1998,
Registration No. 333-56565). 

2.3

Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger dated August 24, 1998 (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 2.1B to the Registration Statement on Form S-4, filed on September 2,
1998, Registration No. 333-56565). 

2.4

Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of January 22, 2003 by and among White
Electronic Designs Corporation, IDS Reorganization Corp., and Interface Data Systems, Inc.
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed
January 24, 2003). 

44 

Table of Contents   

45 

Table of Contents   

46 

Table of Contents   

* 
       
     Filed herewith. 

** 
       
     Management compensatory contract, plan or arrangement. 

## 
       
     Furnished herewith. 

47 

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION

Date:

December 14, 2006

/s/Roger A. Derse

Roger A. Derse 
Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Company and in the capacities and on the date
indicated:

/s/ Hamid R. Shokrgozar 

/s/ Edward A. White 

Hamid R. Shokrgozar 

Edward A. White 

President, Chief Executive Officer 

Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors 

and Chairman of the Board of Directors 

Date:

December 14, 2006

Date:

December 14, 2006 

/s/ Thomas M. Reahard 

/s/ Thomas J. Toy 

Thomas M. Reahard 

Thomas J. Toy 

Lead Director 

Director 

Date:

December 14, 2006

Date:

December 14, 2006 

/s/ Jack A. Henry 

/s/ Roger A. Derse 

Jack A. Henry 

Roger A. Derse 

Director 

Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer 

Date:

December 14, 2006

Date:

December 14, 2006 

/s/ Paul D. Quadros 

Paul D. Quadros 

Director 

Date:

December 14, 2006 

48 

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of White Electronic Designs Corporation:

We have completed integrated audits of White Electronic Designs Corporation s September 30, 2006
and October 1, 2005 consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over financial
reporting as of September 30, 2006, and an audit of its October 2, 2004 consolidated financial
statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.

Consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule 

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under Item
15(a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of White Electronic
Designs Corporation and its subsidiaries at September 30, 2006 and October 1, 2005, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September
30, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index
appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These
financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial
statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made
by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards  No. 123(R),   Share-Based Payment , effective October 2, 2005.

Internal control over financial reporting 

Also, in our opinion, management s assessment, included in Management s Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that the Company maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006 based on criteria established in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria.
Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria established in
 Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the COSO. The Company s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility
is to express opinions on management s assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal
control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting
includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable

49 

Table of Contents   

assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material
effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Phoenix, Arizona 
December 14, 2006

50 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

51 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

52 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

53 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 

54 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. NATURE OF OPERATIONS

White Electronic Designs Corporation (the  Company ) designs, develops and manufactures innovative
microelectronic and display components and systems for high technology products used in the
military/industrial and commercial markets. The Company s microelectronic solutions include
advanced semiconductor and state of the art multi-chip packaging, as well as a proprietary process
for applying anti-tamper protection to mission critical semiconductor components in military
applications. The Company s display solutions include enhanced flat panel display products,
interface devices and electromechanical assemblies. The Company s customers, which include
military prime contractors in the United States and Europe as well as commercial original equipment
manufacturers ( OEMs ), outsource many of their microelectronic and display components and systems
to us as a result of the combination of our design, development and manufacturing expertise. The
Company s operations include two reportable segments: microelectronic and display, with the
majority of sales and operating income generated by the microelectronic segment.

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

a. 
       
     Principles of Consolidation 

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all of its
wholly-owed subsidiaries. All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been
eliminated. The Company does not have any investments in less than wholly-owned
subsidiaries or any interests in variable interest entities in which the Company is the
primary beneficiary. 

b. 
       
     Fiscal Year-End 

The Company s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest September 30. 

c. 
       
     Cash and Cash Equivalents 

The Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments and money market funds purchased
with an initial maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. 

d. 
       
     Accounts Receivable 

Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not bear interest. The
Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts to cover potential credit losses
relating to its trade accounts receivable. The allowance is based on the Company s
historical collection experience as well as an analysis of specific past due accounts.
Write-offs against the allowance totaled approximately $32,000 in fiscal 2006, $274,000 in
fiscal 2005 and $170,000 in fiscal 2004. 

e. 
       
     Inventories 

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market with cost determined using the average
or standard cost methods, with standard costs approximating actual costs. 

f. 
       
     Property, Plant and Equipment 

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is determined on a
straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives ranging from 5 to 20 years for buildings
and improvements and 3 to 7 years for
machinery and equipment. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lives of the leases
or estimated useful lives of the assets, whichever is shorter. When assets are sold or
otherwise retired, the cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from the books and the
resulting gain or loss is included in operating results. The Company periodically evaluates
the carrying value of its property, plant, and equipment in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of , based upon the estimated
cash flows to be generated by the related assets. The Company has never had a write-down of
property, plant and equipment.

55 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

g. 
       
     Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 

We account for goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with SFAS No. 142,
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  ( SFAS 142 ). The provisions of SFAS 142 prohibit
the amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and require that such
assets be tested annually for impairment (and in interim periods if events or circumstances
indicate that the related carrying amount may be impaired). SFAS 142 also requires that
reporting units be identified for purposes of assessing potential impairments and eliminated
the forty-year limitation on the amortization period of intangible assets that have finite
lives. 

SFAS 142 requires that goodwill be tested for impairment using a two-step process. The
first step of the goodwill impairment test, which is used to identify potential impairment,
compares the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including
goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of
the reporting unit is not considered to be impaired and the second step of the impairment
test is unnecessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair
value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test must be performed to measure the
amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares
the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.
The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of
goodwill recognized in a business combination. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit
goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized
in an amount equal to that excess. 

As of October 1, 2005, the Company completed the first step impairment tests for the
goodwill relating to its acquisition of Panelview, Inc. ( Panelview ) and the reporting
units resulting from the acquisition of Interface Data Systems, Inc. ( IDS ). The fair
value of Panelview and the Phoenix-based IDS reporting units did not exceed the related
carrying value. The implied fair value of the goodwill was determined and an impairment
charge of $11.4 million was recognized for the excess of the carrying amount over the fair
value amount in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. 

Due to the less than expected financial performance in our Columbus, Ohio-based reporting
unit, the Company tested goodwill relating to this reporting unit in the third quarter of
fiscal 2006. The Company s annual impairment test is done at the end of the fiscal year.
The fair value of the Columbus-based IDS reporting unit did not exceed the related carrying
value. The implied fair value of the goodwill was determined and an impairment charge of
$0.4 million was recognized to write down all of the IDS acquisition value goodwill
associated with this reporting unit in the third quarter of fiscal 2006. See Note 7 of the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

Goodwill recorded was $5.3 million and $5.7 million at September 30, 2006 and October 1,
2005, respectively. Furthermore, SFAS 142 requires purchased intangible assets other than
goodwill to be amortized over their useful lives unless these lives are determined to be
indefinite. Purchased intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization.
Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, generally
two to fifteen years. 

h. 
       
     Product Warranties 

Estimated future warranty obligations related to certain products are provided by charges to
operations in the period in which the related revenue is recognized. The Company
establishes a reserve for warranty obligations based on its historical warranty experience. 

i. 
       
     Revenue Recognition 

The Company sells its microelectronic and display products primarily to military prime
contractors and commercial OEMs. A small portion of the Company s products are also sold
through distributors or resellers. The Company recognizes revenue on product sales when
persuasive evidence of an arrangement with the customer exists, title to the product has
passed to the customer which usually occurs at time of shipment, the sales price is fixed or
determinable, and collectibility of the related billing is reasonably assured. Advance
payments from customers are deferred and recognized when the related products are shipped.
Revenue 

56 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

relating to products sold to distributors or resellers who either have return rights
or where the Company has a history of accepting product returns are deferred and recognized
when the distributor or reseller sells the product to the end customer. The Company also
provides limited design services pursuant to related customer purchase orders and recognizes
the associated revenue generally as such services are performed, however, it may be deferred
until certain elements are completed.

The Company may from time to time enter into certain arrangements that contain multiple
elements such as performing limited design services accompanied with follow-on manufacturing
of related products. The Company allocates revenue to the elements based on relative fair
value and recognizes revenue for each element when there is evidence of an arrangement,
delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable and
collectibility is reasonable assured. Arrangements with multiple elements that are not
considered separate units of accounting require deferral of revenue until certain other
elements have been delivered or the services have been performed. The Company s contracts
with military prime contractors provide that they may be terminated at the convenience of
the U.S. Government. Upon such termination, the Company is normally entitled to receive the
purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs incurred and allocable
to the contract and an allowance for profit on the allowable costs incurred or adjustment
for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss.

j. 
       
     Shipping Costs 

Shipping costs include charges associated with delivery of goods from the Company s
facilities to its customers and are reflected in costs of goods sold. Shipping costs paid
to the Company by our customers are classified as revenue. 

k. 
       
     Research and Development 

Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. 

l. 
       
     Income Taxes 

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for
Income Taxes,  which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the
expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are
recognized, net of any valuation allowance, for deductible temporary differences and net
operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. 

m. 
       
     Fair Value of Financial Instruments 

The Company values financial instruments as required by SFAS No. 107,  Disclosures about
Fair Value of Financial Instruments.  The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents,
accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate their fair value due to the relatively
short maturity of these items. 

n. 
       
     Accounting Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the
date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could
differ from those estimates. 

o. 
       
     Earnings (Loss) per Share 

Basic earnings (loss) per share are computed by dividing income or loss available to common
shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings (loss) per share are similar to basic earnings (loss) per share except that
the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would
have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive common shares had been issued if the
increase results in dilution. 

57 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A reconciliation of the numerator and denominator of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per
share is as follows:

Options excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share were
826,582, as the exercise price of those options was greater than the average
share price for the period.

The effect of common stock equivalents is not included in the diluted loss per share calculation as
their inclusion would be anti-dilutive. Stock option shares of 511,591 would have been included in
the diluted earnings per share calculation had the Company reported net income for the period.
Options of 856,959 had exercise prices greater than the average share price for the period.

Options excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share were 333,000, as the exercise
price of those options was greater than the average share price for the period.

p. 
       
     Stock-Based Compensation 

Stock Options  

Effective October 2, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS
123(R) ), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense in the
financial statements for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors
based on estimated fair

58 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

values. This statement was adopted using the modified prospective
method of application, which requires the Company to recognize compensation expense on a
prospective basis. Therefore, prior period financial statements have not been restated.
Under this method, in addition to reflecting compensation expense for new share-based
awards, expense is also recognized to reflect the remaining service period of awards that
had been granted in prior periods. SFAS 123(R) also requires that excess tax benefits
(i.e., tax benefits resulting from share-based compensation deductions in excess of amounts
reported for financial reporting purposes) be reflected as financing cash inflows instead of
operating cash inflows on our consolidated statements of cash flows. For the fiscal year
ended September 30, 2006, the Company recorded compensation expense of $373,000 and cash
flows from financing activities of $84,000 for excess tax benefits, which reduced cash flows
from operating activities by the same amount. The compensation cost for share-based payment
awards is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on our consolidated
statements of operations.

Prior to fiscal 2006, the Company applied the intrinsic value method as outlined in
Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,  and related interpretations in accounting for stock options granted. In
accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, no compensation expense was recognized in the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations prior to fiscal year 2006 on stock
options granted to employees, since all options granted under the Company s stock option
programs had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on
the date of grant.

Prior to the Company s adoption of SFAS 123(R), SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,  ( SFAS 123 ) required that the Company provide pro forma information
regarding net earnings and net earnings per common share as if compensation cost for the
Company s stock-based awards had been determined in accordance with the fair value method
prescribed therein. The Company had previously adopted the disclosure portion of SFAS No.
148,  Accounting for Stock Based Compensation   Transition and Disclosure,  requiring
quarterly SFAS 123 pro forma disclosure. The pro forma charge for compensation cost related
to stock-based awards was recognized over the service period.

The pro forma information required under SFAS 123 for the fiscal years 2005 and 2004 follows
(in thousands, except per share amounts):

59 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A summary of the Company s stock option activity for fiscal year 2006 follows (in thousands,
except per share amounts): 

The total pretax intrinsic value of options exercised during fiscal year 2006 was
approximately $442,000. 

The total fair value of all options that vested during fiscal year 2006 was approximately
$394,000. 

As of September 30, 2006, total compensation cost related to unvested stock options not yet
recognized was approximately $0.6 million which is expected to be recognized over the next
four years. 

We recognize compensation expense using the straight-line method for stock option awards that
vest ratably over the vesting period. SFAS 123(R) requires forfeitures to be estimated at the
time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ
from those estimates. In our pro forma information required under SFAS 123 for periods prior
to fiscal 2006, we only accounted for forfeitures as they occurred. 

The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions: 

The Company used historical volatility as the expected volatility in the Black-Scholes model.
The expected life of employee stock options represents the weighted-average period the stock
options are expected to remain outstanding. The risk-free interest rate assumption is based
upon observed interest rates appropriate for the weighted average expected option life of the
Company s employee stock options. The dividend yield assumption is based on the Company s
history and expectation of dividend payouts. 

60 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The weighted-average estimated fair value of the discount on the shares sold under the
Employee Stock Purchase Plan during fiscal years 2005 and 2004 was $0.80 and $1.05,
respectively. The Employee Stock Purchase Plan was terminated effective December 31, 2004. 

Restricted Stock Units  

The following table summarizes restricted stock unit activity for the year ended September 30,
2006 (in thousands, except per share amounts): 

As of September 30, 2006, there was $0.2 million pre-tax of total restricted stock unit
compensation expense related to nonvested awards not yet recognized, which is expected to be
recognized over the next three years. 

q. 
       
     Newly Issued Accounting Standards 

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs   an amendment of ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4.  This Statement amends the guidance in Accounting Research Bulletin ( ARB ) No. 43,
Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle
facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). This Statement
requires that those items be recognized as current period charges regardless of whether they
meet the criterion of abnormal. In addition, this Statement requires that allocation of fixed
production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the
production facilities. The provisions of this Statement are now in effect for inventory costs
incurred in fiscal 2006. The implementation of this Statement has not had a material impact on
the Company s consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 

In March 2005, the FASB issued Financial Interpretation ( FIN ) No. 47,  Accounting for
Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations.  This interpretation clarifies that the term
 conditional asset retirement obligation  as used in SFAS No. 143,  Accounting for Asset
Retirement Obligations,  refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity
in which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or
may not be within the control of the entity. Accordingly, an entity is required to recognize
a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value
of the liability can be reasonably estimated. The Company implemented FIN No. 47 effective
September 30, 2006. The implementation of this Statement has not had a material impact on the
Company s financial condition or results of operations. 

In July 2006, the FASB issued FIN No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes . The
interpretation applies to all tax positions related to income taxes subject to FASB Statement
No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes . FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty
in income taxes by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold in determining if a tax
position should be reflected in the financial statements. Only tax positions that meet the
 more likely than not  recognition threshold may be recognized. The interpretation also
provides guidance on classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods,
disclosure, and transition requirements for uncertain tax positions. FIN No. 48 will be
effective for the Company s fiscal year ending September 29, 2007. The Company is currently
evaluating the impact FIN No. 48 will have on the Company s financial condition and results of
operations. 

61 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements . This standard
establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value, sets out a framework for
measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157
applies to fair value measurements already required or permitted by existing standards. SFAS
No. 157 will be effective for the Company s fiscal year beginning September 28, 2008. SFAS
No. 157 is currently being evaluated by the Company and is not expected to have a material
impact on the Company s financial condition or results of operations; however, additional
disclosures may be required regarding the inputs used to develop the measurements and the
effect of certain of the measurements on changes in net assets from period to period.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans-an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and
132(R).  This pronouncement requires an employer to recognize the over-funded or under-funded
status of a defined benefit postretirement plan (other than a multiemployer plan) as an asset
or liability. SFAS No. 158 also requires an employer to recognize changes in that funded
status in the year in which the changes occur through comprehensive income. In addition, this
statement requires an employer to measure the funded status of a plan as of the date of its
year-end, with limited exceptions. SFAS No. 158 will be effective for the Company s fiscal
year ending September 29, 2007. The Company is currently evaluating the impact SFAS No. 158
will have on the Company s financial condition and results of operations.

3. 
       
     FACILITIES CLOSURE 

In October 2004, the Company announced that it would be closing its Flower Street facility in
Phoenix, Arizona (acquired as part of the IDS acquisition) and relocating employees and the
machinery and equipment to the Company s leased facility in the headquarters building. In
November 2004, the Company entered into an amendment of its headquarters lease to add another
31,000 square feet of space in this facility which was improved to accommodate the additional
manufacturing relocated in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. The amended headquarters lease
covers up to approximately 74,000 square feet. The lease term will expire in July 2015 and is
subject to two five-year renewal options. The Company incurred approximately $4.1 million in
capital expenditures for the leasehold improvements. The Company has put the Flower Street land
and building on the market and expects net proceeds from the sale to exceed the net book value;
however, the Company does not expect any ultimate gain or loss to have a material impact on its
consolidated results of operations (see Note 5). 

4. 
       
     INVENTORIES, NET 

Inventories consist of the following (in thousands of dollars): 

Raw materials include approximately $1.5 million and $1.3 million at year end 2006 and 2005,
respectively, for which the Company has received advance payment from the customer. These
advance payments are recorded as deferred revenue until the finished goods are delivered. The
Company maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory. Approximately $1.0 million of
inventories were written off against the reserve during the fiscal year ended September 30,
2006.

62 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

5. 
       
     ASSETS HELD FOR SALE 

Assets held for sale consisted of the following (in thousands of dollars): 

The Company has land and a building in Phoenix, Arizona on the market as a result of the
consolidation of the microelectronic segment and the relocation of the employees to the
headquarters facility. The net book value of the land and building is presented as assets held
for sale and depreciation of the building was discontinued in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. 

6. 
       
     PREPAID EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS 

Prepaid expenses and other current assets consist of the following (in thousands of dollars): 

7. 
       
     GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and
October 1, 2005 are as follows (in thousands of dollars): 

Due to the less than expected financial performance in the Company s interface electronics
product line in Columbus, Ohio, the Company tested the goodwill relating to this reporting unit
for impairment in the third quarter of fiscal 2006. As a result of this testing, the Company
found indicators of goodwill impairment related to this reporting unit. The reporting unit in
Ohio was purchased as part of the IDS acquisition in January 2003. Based on the current and
forecasted competitive market conditions, the Company lowered earnings and cash flow projections
for this reporting unit and expects it to grow more slowly than had previously been projected.
Revenue and profitability have not met management s expectations in fiscal 2006 primarily due to
reduced demand for current interface products.

Accordingly, the Company wrote down all $0.4 million of the unamortized IDS acquisition goodwill
related to the interface electronics reporting unit in the display segment. The fair value of
this reporting unit was estimated using standard valuation techniques weighted 65% to a
discounted cash flow method, 25% to a market multiples method and 10% to a transaction cost
method.

63 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In performing the annual goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the
Company found indicators of impairment related to the commercial microelectronic reporting unit
in Phoenix and the display reporting unit in Oregon. Most of the commercial microelectronic
business in Phoenix was purchased as part of the IDS acquisition in January 2003 and the display
business in Oregon was purchased in January 2001. Based on the current and forecasted
competitive market conditions, the Company had lowered earnings and cash flow projections for
these divisions and expects them to grow more slowly than had previously been projected. In the
commercial microelectronics business, revenue and profitability did not meet management s
expectations in fiscal 2005 primarily due to (1) the market softness of the raw material
associated with Dynamic Random Access Memory components which caused a lower average selling
price and margin from sales of related products in fiscal 2005; (2) lower than expected orders
from one of the division s key customers that experienced a slower than expected growth and
market acceptance of its next generation enterprise server systems in fiscal 2005; and (3) the
lower than expected sales to a customer that serves the hotel industry because the 2005
hurricanes delayed shipments of that customer s entertainment video systems which affected the
Company s product shipment flow to them. In the display business in Oregon, the Company changed
its business strategy to pursue markets such as transportation, mobile PC, medical and
industrial markets to focus on higher margin products. Accordingly, the Company had to replace
the $9.3 million of fiscal year 2005 revenues from NCR Corporation that generated margins lower
than management s expectations, despite higher volume business.

Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company wrote down $8.5 million of the
$10.2 million of unamortized IDS acquisition goodwill related to the commercial microelectronics
reporting units of which $7.1 million of the write-down is in the microelectronics segment
and $1.4 million is in the display segment. In addition, the Company wrote down $2.9 million of
the $6.5 million of unamortized goodwill related to the Panelview reporting unit in the display
segment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. The fair values of these reporting units were
estimated using standard valuation techniques weighted 75% to a discounted cash flow method, 20%
to a market multiples method and 5% to a transaction or cost method.

The consolidation of the Phoenix manufacturing facilities described in Note 3 enabled the
Company to consolidate several functions related to its military and commercial microelectronics
operations, including financial reporting. Effective for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the
former commercial microelectronic reporting unit no longer exists. The microelectronic segment
goodwill was evaluated for impairment at September 30, 2006 using the segment as the reporting
unit. The remaining display segment goodwill continues to be evaluated at a reporting unit
level which represents the display business the Company acquired in Oregon in January 2001.

The Company s intangible assets consist of the following as of September 30, 2006 and October 1,
2005 (in thousands of dollars):

64 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Changes in the carrying amount of acquired intangible assets during fiscal 2006 and 2005
are as follows (in thousands of dollars):

Estimated Aggregate Amortization Expense 
for the Next Five Fiscal Years (in thousands):

8. 
       
     PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 

Property, plant and equipment consist of the following (in thousands of dollars): 

65 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following table summarizes activity in the warranty reserve for the fiscal years ended
September 30, 2006 and October 1, 2005 (in thousands of dollars):

10. 
       
     LINE OF CREDIT 

We have a $12.0 million revolving line of credit with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Borrowings
under the line of credit bear interest at the lower of the London Interbank Offered Rate
( LIBOR ) plus 1.5%, or the JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.  prime rate . The line of credit expires
on March 31, 2007. We are currently negotiating the terms and conditions of a new credit
facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. A commitment fee of 0.25% is charged on the unused
portion of the line. The Company is in compliance with all debt covenant requirements contained
in its line of credit agreement. As of September 30, 2006, there were no borrowings against the
line of credit, and we have not borrowed against the line of credit since April 2003. 

11. 
       
     INCOME TAXES 

The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in thousands of dollars): 

A reconciliation of the income tax provision calculated at the U.S. federal statutory tax rate
of 34% to the actual tax provision is as follows (in thousands of dollars):

66 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The income tax effect of loss carry forwards, tax credit carry forwards and temporary
differences between financial and tax reporting give rise to the deferred income tax assets and
liabilities. Such deferred income tax assets and liabilities consisted of the following (in
thousands of dollars):

As of September 30, 2006, the Company had federal net operating loss carry forwards of
approximately $3.2 million, which expire at various dates through 2018. There were state tax
credit carry forwards of approximately $0.3 million as of September 30, 2006, which expire at
various dates through 2021. 

Ownership changes, as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 382, have limited the amount of
net operating loss carry forwards that can be utilized by the Company annually to offset future
taxable income and liability. 

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Internal Revenue Service completed its examination
of our federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended September 28, 2002 and September
27, 2003. Based on the results of the examination, we decreased our tax liabilities by
approximately $0.8 million and decreased income tax expense by a corresponding amount. 

In October 2004, Congress passed the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the  Act ), which
eliminated the extraterritorial income exclusion, and provides a deduction from taxable income
equal to a stipulated percentage of qualified income from domestic production activities,
referred to as the manufacturer deduction. The extraterritorial income exclusion will be phased
out through 2006, and the manufacturer deduction will be phased in through 2010. Additionally,
the federal research and experimentation credit expired on December 31, 2005, which increased
the Company s effective rate in fiscal 2006. However, on
December 9, 2006, Congress extended the
research and experimentation credit through December 31, 2007 and made it retroactive to January
1, 2006, subject to the expected signing by the President of the
United States. Due to the provisions of SFAS 109, the Company will record the benefit of the
retroactive portion in the fiscal quarter that the bill is enacted. 

67 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Defined Benefit Plan 

The Company has a non-contributory pension plan for eligible union employees at its Fort
Wayne, Indiana facility pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement. Benefits are based
primarily on a benefits multiplier and years of service. The Company funds an amount equal to
the minimum funding required plus additional amounts which may be approved by the Company from
time to time. There were no contributions to the plan in 2006 and $80,000 was contributed in
2005.

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is updated annually taking into
consideration the related asset allocation, historical returns on the types of assets held in
the plan, and the current economic environment. Based on these factors, the Company expects its
plan assets to earn a long-term rate of return of 7.00%. Actual year-by-year returns can
deviate substantially from the long-term expected return assumption. However, over time it is
expected that the amount of over performance will equal the amount of under performance.
Changes in the mix of plan assets could impact the amount of recorded pension income or expense,
the funded status of the plan and the need for future cash contributions. The discount rate
used to calculate the expected present value of future benefit obligations as of September 30,
2006 was 5.89%. The Company periodically reviews the plan asset mix, benchmark discount rate,
expected rate of return and other actuarial assumptions and adjusts them as deemed necessary.

68 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The Company s weighted-average
assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for
the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, October 1, 2005
and October 2, 2004 are as follows:

69 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The expected long-term rate of return on pension assets is selected by taking into account the
expected duration of the Projected Benefit Obligation ( PBO ) for the plan, and the asset mix of
the plan. SFAS No. 87,  Employers  Accounting for Pensions,  calls for the rate of return to be
the rate to be earned over the period until the benefits represented by the current PBO are
paid. The expected return on plan assets is based on the Company s expectation of historical
long-term average rates of return on the different asset classes held in the pension fund. This
is reflective of the current and projected asset mix of the funds and considers the historical
returns earned on our asset allocation and the duration of the plan liabilities. Thus, the
Company has taken a historical approach to the development of the expected return on asset
assumption. The Company believes that fundamental changes in the markets cannot be predicted
over the long-term. Rather, historical returns, realized across numerous economic cycles,
should be representative of the market return expectations applicable to the funding of a
long-term benefit obligation.

The Company s pension plan asset allocations at September 30, 2006 and October 1, 2005 are as
follows (in thousands):

In determining the asset allocation, our investment manager recognizes the Company s desire for
funding and expense stability, the long-term nature of the pension obligation and current and
projected cash needs for retiree benefit payments. Based on the Company s criteria, it
determined the Company s present target asset allocation to be approximately 40%-60% in equity
securities and 40%-60% in debt securities. The pension fund is actively managed within the
target asset allocation ranges.

As of September 30, 2006 and October 1, 2005, the Company s pension plan assets did not hold any
direct investment in the Company s common stock.

The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are
expected to be paid (in thousands):

401(k) Plan  

The Company has an Incentive Savings 401(k) Plan covering its non-union employees who have
completed six months of service. During fiscal 2006, the Company matched employee contributions
equal to 50% of the first 6% of the participants  wage base. During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004,
the Company made contributions to the plan of approximately $413,000, $352,000 and $293,000,
respectively. 

13. 
       
     STOCK OPTIONS, WARRANTS, AND STOCK PURCHASE PLANS 

Stock Option Plans   

Executives and other key employees have been granted options to purchase common shares under
stock option plans adopted during the period 1987 through 2001. The option exercise price
equals the fair market value of 

70 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

the Company s common stock on the date of the grant. Options
generally vest ratably over a four-year period and have a maximum term of ten years.

The Company issued approximately 469,000 options and 169,000 warrants to purchase its common
stock in connection with the IDS acquisition. The stock options had a weighted average exercise
price of $2.32 per share and expire in 2012, while the warrants have a weighted average exercise
price of $2.96 and expire December 31, 2006. Approximately 38,000 of the options were unvested
at the time of the acquisition, and the related unearned compensation of approximately $51,000
was recognized over the remaining vesting period of two years. During fiscal 2006, 50,000 of
these warrants were exercised.

In September 2005, the Company accelerated the vesting of all stock options, excluding options
granted to non-employee directors, to purchases shares of the Company s common stock, issued at
an exercise price greater than $5.10. This resulted in the acceleration of 167,309 options.
The acceleration of the vesting of these options did not result in a charge to expense based on
generally accepted accounting principles. The Company took this action to eliminate future
compensation expense it would otherwise recognize in its statement of operations with respect to
such options after the adoption of SFAS 123(R).

On November 10, 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123(R)-3,  Transition Election
Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards.  The Company has elected
to adopt the alternative transition method provided in the FASB Staff Position for calculating
the tax effects of stock-based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R). The alternative transition
method includes simplified methods to establish the beginning balance of the additional
paid-in-capital pool ( APIC pool ) related to the tax effects of employee stock-based
compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the APIC pool and Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows of the tax effects of employee stock-based compensation awards that are
outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R).

A summary of the Company s stock option activity and related information is as follows:

71 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable options as
of September 30, 2006 (in thousands, except years and per share amounts):

The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax intrinsic
value, based on the Company s closing stock price of $4.97 on September 29, 2006, which would
have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their in-the-money
options as of that date. The total number of in-the-money options exercisable as of September
30, 2006 was approximately 1,130,000. 

Restricted Stock Plan  

Effective March 24, 2006, the White Electronic Designs Corporation 2006 Director Restricted
Stock Plan was approved by the shareholders. Under this plan, non-employee directors receive an
annual grant of 7,500 shares at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders that vest ratably over a
three year period. The Company values these shares using the intrinsic method. The 37,500
shares granted on March 24, 2006 were valued at $5.81 per share, the closing price of the stock
on the date of grant. 

Stock Purchase Plans  

In February 2001, the Company s Board of Directors adopted the White Electronic Designs
Corporation 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. This plan provided for the purchase by employees
of up to 300,000 shares of common stock at 85% of the fair market value on the first or last day
of the offering period (as defined in the plan), whichever is lower. This plan began July 1,
2001; however, it was terminated effective December 31, 2004. The final offering period was
from July 1, 2004 through December 31, 2004. There were 24,214 shares issued under this plan in
fiscal year 2005, and 47,170 shares issued under this plan in fiscal year 2004. 

14. 
       
     COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

The Company leases certain property and equipment under non-cancelable lease agreements, some of
which include renewal options, of up to ten years. Total rent expense for fiscal 2006, 2005,
and 2004 was approximately $2.0 million, $1.8 million and $1.3 million, respectively. Future
minimum annual fixed rentals required under non-cancelable operating leases having an original
term of more than one year are approximately $1.5 million in 2007, $1.6 million in 2008, $1.5
million in 2009, $1.1 million in 2010, and $0.9 million in 2011. 

As part of mergers, acquisitions and other transactions entered into during the ordinary course
of business (including public offerings of our stock), from time to time, the Company has
indemnified certain sellers, buyers or other parties related to the transaction from and against
certain liabilities associated with conditions in existence (or claims associated with actions
taken) prior to the closing of the transaction. These indemnity 

72 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

provisions generally require
the Company to indemnify the party against certain liabilities that may arise in the future from
the pre-closing activities of the Company. The indemnity classifications include certain
operating liabilities, such as patent infringement, claims existing at closing, or other
obligations. Given the nature of these indemnity obligations, it is not possible to estimate
the maximum potential exposure. We do not consider any of such obligations as having a probable
likelihood of payment that is reasonably estimable, and accordingly, we have not recorded any
obligations associated with these indemnities.

On July 22, 2004, July 29, 2004, August 6, 2004 and August 20, 2004, shareholder class action
lawsuits entitled  McJimsey v. White Electronic Designs Corporation, et al.  (Case No.
CV04-1499-PHX-SRB),  Afework v. White Electronic Designs Corporation, et al  (Case No.
CV04-1558-PHX-JWS),  Anders v. White Electronic Designs Corporation, et al.  (Case No.
CV04-1632-PHX-JAT), and  Sammarco v. White Electronic Designs Corporation, et al.  (Case No.
CV04-1744-PHX-EHC), respectively, were filed in the United States District Court for the
District of Arizona against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and
directors (the  Defendants ). The actions were consolidated and the Wayne County Employees 
Retirement System was appointed as lead plaintiff. A consolidated complaint was filed on or
about February 14, 2005. The Defendants  motions to dismiss the consolidated complaint were
granted on February 14, 2006. The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on April 17, 2006 (the
 Complaint ). Like the dismissed complaint, the new Complaint alleges, among other things, that
between January 23, 2003 and June 9, 2004, the Company made false and misleading statements
concerning its financial results and business, and issued a misleading registration statement
and prospectus in connection with the Company s July 2003 secondary offering. The Complaint
seeks unspecified monetary damages. Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the new Complaint in
June 2006. While Defendants  motions were pending, the parties reached an agreement to settle
the lawsuit. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, the Company s insurance carrier will pay
the entire $5.7 million settlement amount (of which at least
$0.7 million will come from the derivative settlement agreement
described below). The agreement, which must be approved by the Court,
has been submitted to the Court for preliminary approval. The Court has not set a hearing date
on the request for preliminary approval. If preliminary approval is granted, then the members
of the class will be notified and allowed an opportunity to object before the Court grants final
approval of the agreement. The Company has recorded a liability in its financial statements for
the proposed amount of the settlement. In addition, because the insurance carrier has agreed to
pay the entire $5.7 million settlement and recovery from the insurance carrier is probable, a
receivable has also been recorded for the same amount. Accordingly, there is no impact to the
Company s statements of operations or cash flows because the amounts of the settlement and the
insurance recovery fully offset each other.

On August 12, 2004 and August 19, 2004, purported derivative actions entitled  Dodt v.
Shokrgozar, et al.  (Case No. CV04-1674-PHX-NVW) and  Christ v. Shokrgozar, et al.  (Case No.
CV04-1722-PHX-MHM), respectively, were filed in the United States District Court for the
District of Arizona against current and former directors and officers of the Company. The
Company was also named as a nominal defendant in both actions. The complaints alleged that
between January 2003 and the date the complaints were filed, defendants breached their fiduciary
duties to the Company by causing the Company to misrepresent its financial results and
prospects. The complaints alleged claims for breach of fiduciary duty, gross mismanagement,
abuse of control, waste of corporate assets, insider selling, and unjust enrichment, and sought
unspecified damages, equitable relief, and restitution against the individual defendants. On
June 7, 2005, the Court dismissed the Dodt action and on June 15, 2005, the Court dismissed the
Christ action. Mr. Dodt has appealed the dismissal of his complaint. Mr. Dodt filed an
appellate brief in June 2006. The Company s response to Mr. Dodt s brief was filed on July 28,
2006. While plaintiff s appeal was pending, the parties reached
an agreement to settle
the lawsuit. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, the Company s insurance carrier
would pay the entire $300,000 settlement amount (total amount of the
settlement is $1.0 million;
$0.7 million of which will be used to fund a portion of the
$5.7 million class action settlement described above). The agreement, which
must be approved by the Court will be submitted to the Court for
preliminary approval. If preliminary approval is granted, then
shareholders will be notified and allowed an opportunity to object
before the Court grants final approval of the agreement. The Company has recorded a liability in its financial
statements for the amount of the settlement. In addition, because the insurance
carrier has agreed to pay the entire $300,000 settlement and recovery from the insurance carrier
is probable, a receivable has also been recorded for the same amount.
Accordingly, there is no impact to the Company s statements of operations or cash flows because
the amounts of the settlement and the insurance recovery fully offset each other.

In addition, from time to time, the Company is subject to claims and litigation incident to its
business. There are currently no such pending proceedings to which the Company is a party that
the Company believes will have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated results
of operations, liquidity, or financial condition.

73 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

15. 
       
     CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK 

Our customers consist mainly of military prime contractors and commercial OEMs and contract
manufacturers who work for them, in the United States, Europe and Asia. We perform ongoing
credit evaluations of our customers  financial condition and, generally, require no collateral
from our customers. Our write-offs of bad debts totaled approximately $32,000 in fiscal 2006,
$274,000 in fiscal 2005, and $170,000 in fiscal 2004. Sales to military customers accounted for
approximately $52.3 million, or 48%, of our sales in fiscal 2006, as compared to approximately
$49.3 million, or 42%, of our sales in fiscal 2005. Sales to our commercial customers accounted
for approximately $56.6 million, or 52%, of our sales in fiscal 2006, as compared to $67.8
million, or 58%, of our sales in fiscal 2005. 

In fiscal 2006, On Command Corporation accounted for approximately $7.4 million, or 12%, of
microelectronic segment net sales, while Hewlett Packard Company accounted for approximately
$8.6 million, or 18%, of display segment net sales. In fiscal 2005, On Command Corporation
accounted for approximately $9.3 million, or 15%, of our microelectronic segment sales, while
NCR Corporation accounted for approximately $9.3 million, or 18%, of our display segment sales.
No one customer accounted for 10% or more of total net sales for fiscal year 2006 or 2005.
Foreign sales for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 were approximately $31.1 million, $20.7 million and
$18.4 million, respectively. Additional information concerning sales by geographic area can be
found in Note 17. 

Throughout the year, the Company maintained certain bank account balances in excess of the FDIC
insured limits. 

16. 
       
     SHAREHOLDERS RIGHTS PLAN 

On December 6, 1996, the Board of Directors adopted a shareholder rights plan to protect
shareholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control of the Company, under certain
circumstances, including situations in which the Board believes that an inadequate price is
being offered to shareholders. On November 30, 2006, the Board of Directors approved Amendment
No. 2 to the rights plan extending the plan until December 5, 2016. Amendment No. 2 also
increased the purchase price for each common share pursuant to the exercise of a Right (as
defined in the plan) from $20 to $40, subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in the
plan. 

17. 
       
     FINANCIAL DATA BY BUSINESS SEGMENT 

The Company has two business segments, each of which requires different design and manufacturing
resources and generally serves customers in different markets. The microelectronic segment
accounted for approximately 55% of total Company net sales in fiscal 2006, while the display
segment accounted for approximately 45% of total Company net sales in fiscal 2006. 

Our microelectronic segment packages semiconductor products mainly for memory storage. Our
products are sold to military prime contractors and commercial OEMs in the aerospace, defense,
military equipment, computer networking and telecommunication industries. Certain industries
require these semiconductor parts to pass specific qualifications due to the application
requirements for those products. A commercial grade product generally meets the standard of
industries such as the consumer electronic, computer networking and
telecommunication/datacommunication industries. Higher performing products, also known as
high-reliability products, are needed in certain industries, such as aerospace, defense, and
military equipment, and are often referred to as  military  products. Military products are
designed to meet more stringent standards and are
resistant to adverse conditions, such as high and low extreme temperatures. High-reliability
products can also be used in industrial applications where products are exposed to harsh
conditions. Our microelectronic segment also includes our anti-tamper security coating for
mission critical semiconductor components in military applications. 

The display segment serves a number of markets with products and solutions that are incorporated
into global positioning systems, home appliances, consumer electronics, medical devices, outdoor
displays, military avionics and various military applications. Our display segment manufactures
enhanced viewing liquid crystal flat panel display products, interface devices and
electromechanical assemblies. Enhanced viewing liquid crystal displays and sunlight readable
displays can be used in either ruggedized or commercial applications. Ruggedized displays are
manufactured to perform in harsh environmental conditions, while commercial display products
offer greater viewing performance than off-the-shelf displays, but are not designed for harsh 

74 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

environmental conditions. Interface devices include electromechanical components and instrument
packages that can consist of ruggedized keyboards, aircraft trim panels, rotating devices,
mechanical packages, membrane keypads, silver flexible circuits, graphic overlays, control
panels, and keypad/controller assemblies.

The Company s segments have common customers, mainly in the aerospace defense industry.
Different purchasing groups within the customers  parent company, however, usually purchase the
products from each segment. There are no inter-segment sales. Transfers of inventory between
segments are made at cost, and are treated as transfers between locations.

The assets identified by segment are those assets used in the Company s operations and do not
include general corporate assets such as cash, deferred tax assets, and an insurance receivable
related to shareholder litigation. Capital expenditures exclude equipment under operating
leases.

In fiscal 2006, Hewlett Packard Company accounted for 18% of display segment net sales, while On
Command Corporation accounted for 12% of microelectronic segment net sales.

In fiscal 2005, NCR Corporation accounted for 18% of display segment net sales, while On Command
Corporation accounted for 15% of microelectronic segment net sales.

In fiscal 2004, Whirlpool Corporation accounted for 12% of display segment net sales. No one
customer accounted for more than 10% of microelectronic net sales in fiscal 2004.

A significant portion of the Company s business activity in each segment is from contractors who
have contracts with the United States Department of Defense.

A significant portion of the Company s net sales were shipped to foreign customers. Export
sales as a percent of total net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 were 29%, 18% and 17%,
respectively. A summary of net sales by geographic region is as follows (in thousands of
dollars):

75 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

OPERATIONS BY BUSINESS SEGMENTS 
(in thousands) 

(1) 
       
     Fiscal year 2006 reflects a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $0.4
million for the display segment in connection with the review of goodwill for impairment in
the third quarter. Fiscal year 2005 reflects a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of
approximately $7.1 million for the microelectronic segment and $4.3 million for the display
segment in connection with the annual review of goodwill for impairment. 

76 

Table of Contents   

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

18. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

(1) 
       
     During the quarter ended October 1, 2005, the Company recorded a non-cash goodwill
impairment charge of $11.4 million and a favorable $0.8 million income tax adjustment. The
goodwill impairment did not have a corresponding income tax benefit. 

77 

Table of Contents   

Schedule II 

White Electronic Designs Corporation and Subsidiaries 
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves 

The following reserves were deducted in the balance sheet from the asset to which applicable (in
thousands of dollars):

(1)  
       
     Relates primarily to sales of parts previously reserved for.  

(2)  
       
     Relates primarily to the closure of the Massachusetts facility and the related
disposition/transfer of inventory. 

78 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit Index  

Exhibit  

Number  
       
      Description  

2.1

Agreement and Plan of Merger dated May 3, 1998 by and among Bowmar Instrument Corporation and
Electronic Designs, Inc. and Bravo Acquisition Subsidiary, Inc. (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 2 to the current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 6, 1998.) 

2.2

Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger dated June 9, 1998 (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 2.1A to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on June 11, 1998,
Registration No. 333-56565). 

2.3

Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger dated August 24, 1998 (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 2.1B to the Registration Statement on Form S-4, filed on September 2,
1998, Registration No. 333-56565). 

2.4

Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of January 22, 2003 by and among White
Electronic Designs Corporation, IDS Reorganization Corp., and Interface Data Systems, Inc.
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed
January 24, 2003). 

2.5

Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated January 29, 2001, by and among White Electronic
Designs Corporation, PV Acquisition Corporation, Panelview, Inc. and Panelview Partners L.P.
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q, filed on February 13, 2001). 

2.6

Agreement and Plan of Merger dated September 26, 2006, by and between Interface Data Systems,
Inc. and White Electronic Designs Corporation. 

3.1

Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of White Electronic Designs Corporation
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 on Form 10-K filed December 24, 1998). 

3.2

Amended and Restated Code of By-Laws of White Electronic Designs Corporation (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 on Form S-3 filed June 2, 2003). 

4.1

Shareholder Rights Agreement, effective December 6, 1996, (incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 5 on Form 8-K, filed on December 19, 1996). 

4.2

Amendment No. 1 to Rights Agreement, effective as of May 3, 1998 (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4, filed on June 11, 1998,
Registration No. 333-56565). 

4.3*

Amendment No. 2 to Rights Agreement, effective December 5, 2006. 

10.1

Agreement to be Bound by Registration Rights Agreements, dated as of May 3, 1998, by and
between Bowmar Instrument Corporation and Electronic Designs, Inc. (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4, filed on Jun 11, 1998,
Registration No. 333-56565). 

10.2**

Agreement to be Bound by Severance Agreements and Employment Agreement, dated as of May 3,
1998, by and between Bowmar Instrument Corporation and Electronic Designs, Inc. (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4, filed on June
11, 1998, Registration No. 333-56565). 

10.3**

1994 Flexible Stock Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit A to the Company s
definitive Proxy Statement prepared in connection with the 1994 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders). 

79 

Table of Contents   

80 

Table of Contents   

* 
       
     Filed herewith. 

** 
       
     Management compensatory contract, plan or arrangement. 

## 
       
     Furnished herewith. 

81 

<EX-4.3>
 2
 p73257exv4w3.htm
 EX-4.3

exv4w3 

EXHIBIT 4.3 

AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO RIGHTS AGREEMENT

White Electronic Designs Corporation (the  Company ) and American Stock Transfer and Trust
Company (the  Rights Agent ) hereby amend the Rights Agreement dated as of December 6, 1996 (the
 Rights Agreement ) and amended on May 3,1998, by and between the Company and the Rights Agent, in
accordance with Section 27 of the Rights Agreement.

1. Section 7(a) of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read as follows
(inserted language is bolded):

(a) The registered holder of any Right Certificate may exercise the Rights evidenced
thereby (except as otherwise provided herein) in whole or in part at any time after the
Distribution Date upon surrender of the Right Certificate, with the form of election to
purchase on the reverse side thereof duly executed, to the Rights Agent at the office of the
Rights Agent designated for such purpose, together with payment of the Purchase Price for
each Common Share as to which the Rights are exercised, at or prior to the earliest of (i)
the Close of Business on  December 5, 2016  (the  Final Expiration Date ), (ii) the time at
which the Rights are redeemed as provided in Section 23 hereof (the  Redemption Date ), or
(iii) the time at which such Rights are exchanged as provided in Section 24 hereof.

2. Section 7(b) of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read as follows
(inserted language is bolded):

(b) The Purchase Price for each Common Share pursuant to the exercise of a Right shall
initially be  $40.00  and shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in
Sections 11 and 13 hereof and shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of
America in accordance with paragraph (c) below.

3. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, or unless the context otherwise requires,
all terms used herein have the meaning assigned to them in the Rights Agreement. The Rights
Agreement and this Amendment No. 2 shall be read together as one instrument. The Rights Agent and
the Company hereby waive any notice requirement under the Rights Agreement pertaining to the
matters covered by this Amendment No. 2.

4. This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Indiana
and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such state
applicable to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such state. This Amendment may be
executed in any number of counterparts and each such counterpart shall be deemed an original, and
all such counterparts shall together constitute a single instrument. This Amendment No. 2 is
effective December 5, 2006.

1 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Amendment No. 2 to be duly executed and
attested as of the date last written above.

RIGHTS AGENT  AMERICAN STOCK TRANSFER AND TRUST COMPANY 

By:   
     
/s/ Herbert J. Lemmer  

Name: 
     Herbert J. Lemmer 

Title: 

 Vice President 

Agreed to by:  WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/ Hamid Shokrgozar

Name: 
       
     Hamid Shokrgozar  

Title: 
       
     Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

2 

</EX-4.3>

<EX-10.13>
 3
 p73257exv10w13.htm
 EX-10.13

exv10w13 

EXHIBIT 10.13 

September 26, 2006

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION 
3601 East University Drive 
Phoenix, Arizona 85034

Re:

Loan by JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
(successor by merger to Bank One, NA (Main Office Chicago))
( Lender ) to WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION ( Borrower ) 

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Lender has extended to Borrower credit pursuant to the Loan and Security Agreement, dated
January 7, 2000 (as amended from time to time,  Loan Agreement ) in the principal amount of
$12,000,000.00 (the  Loan ) and evidenced by the Promissory Note, dated June 30, 2000 ( Note ).
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given them in the
Loan Agreement.

Lender and Borrower agree to amend the Loan Documents as follows:

1. The definition of  Termination Date  in the Loan Agreement is hereby amended
to mean December 31, 2006.

2. The definition of  Maturity Date  in the Note is hereby amended to mean
December 31, 2006

All other terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall remain
unchanged and in full force and effect. All property or rights to or interest in property granted
as security for the Loan, shall remain as security for the Loan and the obligations of Borrower in
the Loan Documents.

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Commercial Banking AZ1-1178 po Box 71,
Phoenix AZ 85001-0071 

Please acknowledge your receipt and acceptance of the foregoing terms and conditions by
signing and returning a copy of this letter. In addition, please obtain the consent and agreement
of the Guarantors by having them sign the copy of this letter to be returned by you.

Sincerely, 

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., (successor by 
merger to BANK ONE, NA, (Main Office Chicago) 

By: 
Name:

/s/ Steve Reinhart

Steve Reinhart

Title:

Senior Vice President 

Consented and agreed to 
this 28 th 
day of Sept., 2006. 

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION, an
Indiana corporation 

By:  
Name:

/s/ Hamid Shokrgozar

Hamid Shokrgozar

Title:

President   CEO 

-2- 

CONSENT AND AGREEMENT 

The foregoing amendments are hereby consented and agreed to this 28 th  day of Sept., 2006.

PANELVIEW, INCORPORATED, an Oregon 
corporation 

By: 
Name:

/s/ Hamid Shokrgozar

Hamid Shokrgozar

Title:

President   CEO 

INTERFACE DATA SYSTEMS, INC., an Arizona 
corporation 

By:

/s/ Hamid Shokrgozar 

Name:

Hamid Shokrgozar 

Title:

President   CEO 

IDS ACQUISITION CORPORATION, an Arizona 
corporation 

By:

/s/ Hamid R. Shokrgozar 

Name:

Hamid R. Shokrgozar 

Title:

President   CEO 

GUARANTORS 

</EX-10.13>

<EX-10.14>
 4
 p73257exv10w14.htm
 EX-10.14

exv10w14 

EXHIBIT
10.14 

December 11, 2006

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION 
3601 East University Drive 
Phoenix, Arizona 85034

Re:

Loan by JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. (successor by merger to Bank
One, NA (Main Office Chicago)) ( Lender ) to WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS
CORPORATION ( Borrower ) 

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Lender has extended to Borrower credit pursuant to the Loan and Security Agreement, dated
January 7, 2000 (as amended from time to time,  Loan Agreement ) in the principal amount of
$12,000,000.00 (the  Loan ) and evidenced by the Promissory Note, dated June 30, 2000 ( Note ).
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given them in the
Loan Agreement.

Lender and Borrower agree to amend the Loan Documents as follows:

1. The definition of  Termination Date  in the Loan Agreement is hereby amended
to mean March 31, 2007.

2. The definition of  Maturity Date  in the Note is hereby amended to mean March
31, 2007.

All other terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall remain
unchanged and in full force and effect. All property or rights to or interest in property granted
as security for the Loan, shall remain as security for the Loan and the obligations of Borrower in
the Loan Documents.

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Commercial Banking AZ1-1178 PO Box 71, Phoenix AZ 85001-0071 

Please acknowledge your receipt and acceptance of the foregoing terms and conditions by
signing and returning a copy of this letter. In addition, please obtain the consent and agreement
of the Guarantors by having them sign the copy of this letter to be returned by you.

Sincerely, 

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK,
N.A., (successor by 
merger to BANK ONE, NA, (Main Office Chicago) 

By:

/s/ Amy Jay 

Name:

Amy Jay

Title

Vice President 

Consented and agreed to 
this 11 th 
day of December, 2006.

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS 
CORPORATION, an Indiana corporation

By:

/s/ Hamid R. Shokrgozar 

Name:

Hamid R. Shokrgozar

Title:

President   CEO 

-2- 

CONSENT
AND AGREEMENT 

The foregoing amendments are hereby consented and agreed to this 11 th  day of December,
2006.

PANELVIEW, INCORPORATED, an oregon corporation 

By: 
Name:

/s/ Hamid R. Shokrgozar

Hamid R. Shokrgozar

Title:

President   CEO 

INTERFACE DATA SYSTEMS, INC., an Arizona corporation 

By:

/s/ Hamid R. Shokrgozar 

Name:

Hamid R. Shokrgozar 

Title:

President   CEO 

IDS ACQUISITION CORPORATION, an Arizona corporation 

By:

/s/ Hamid R. Shokrgozar 

Name:

Hamid R. Shokrgozar 

Title:

President   CEO 

GUARANTORS 

</EX-10.14>

<EX-10.26>
 5
 p73257exv10w26.htm
 EX-10.26

exv10w26 

EXHIBIT
10.26

December 13, 2006

Dan Tarantine 
3601 E. University Dr. 
Phoenix, AZ 85034

Change in Control Agreement 

Dear Dan:

The Board of Directors believes that it is in the best interests of White Electronic Design
( WED ) to take appropriate steps to allay any concerns you may have about your future employment
opportunities with WED and its subsidiaries (WED and its subsidiaries are collectively referred to
as the  Company ). As a result, the Board has decided to offer to you the benefits described
below.

Please bear in mind that these benefits are being offered only to a few, selected employees
and we accordingly ask that you refrain from discussing this program with others. Also, please
note that the benefits described below will only be effective if you sign the extra copy of this
Change in Control Agreement (the  Agreement ) which is enclosed and return it to me. This
Agreement was drafted to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended ( Code) and the proposed regulations issued thereunder. If the final
regulations issued under Code Section 409A provide for more liberalized rules than those under this
Agreement, and if the Company decides to amend the change in control agreements for other Company
executives to reflect any such change, this Agreement will be amended in a manner consistent with
the amendments made to those other change in control agreements.

1. TERM OF AGREEMENT. 

This Agreement is effective immediately and will continue in effect as long as you are
actively employed by the Company, unless you and the Company agree in writing to its termination.

2. SEVERANCE PAYMENT AND STOCK OPTION ACCELERATION. 

If your employment with the Company is terminated without  Cause  (as defined in Section 5) at
any time within twelve (12) months following a  Change in Control  (as defined in Section 4), you
will receive the  Severance Payment  described below.

The
Severance Payment shall be an amount equal to the greater of your annual base salary and
annual bonus of  the two years immediately prior to the Change in Control.

, 2006 
Page 2

The Severance Payment will be paid in one lump sum within five business days following your
termination of employment.

You are not entitled to receive the Severance Payment if your employment is terminated for
Cause if you voluntarily terminate your employment for any reason, or if your employment is
terminated by reason of your  Disability  (as defined below) or your death. In addition, you are
not entitled to receive the Severance Payment if your employment is terminated by you or the
Company for any or no reason before a Change in Control occurs or more than twelve (12) months
after a Change in Control has occurred. For purposes of this agreement,  Disability  shall mean an
incapacity due to physical or mental illness that results in you being medically unable to fulfill
your duties of employment for one hundred eighty (180) calendar days in the aggregate in any twelve
(12) months period.

In order to receive the Severance Payment, you must execute any release reasonably requested
by the Company.

The Severance Payment will be paid to you without regard to whether you look for or obtain
alternative employment following your termination of employment with the Company.

Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement or in any option agreement to the contrary, upon a
Change in Control, any stock option granted to you shall accelerate and become vested without
further action. The exercise of the options will be based on the Company s policy.

3. BENEFITS CONTINUATION. 

If you are entitled to severance under Section 2, and you elect to continue your COBRA
coverage benefits, the Company will pay your COBRA coverage premiums for a period of twelve (12)
months following your termination of employment, provided that the Company payment shall cease if
your COBRA coverage terminates in accordance with applicable rules.

The Company does not intend to provide duplicative benefits. As a result, benefits otherwise
receivable pursuant to this Section 3 shall be reduced or eliminated if and to the extent that you
receive such benefits pursuant to any employment agreement you may have with the Company.

Benefits otherwise receivable pursuant to this Section 3 also shall be reduced or eliminated
if and to the extent that you receive comparable benefits from any other source (for example,
another employer); provided, however, you shall have no obligation to seek, solicit or accept
employment from another employer in order to receive the benefits provided by this Agreement.

, 2006 
Page 3

4. CHANGE IN CONTROL DEFINED. 

For purposes of this Agreement, the term Change in Control shall mean and include the
following transactions or situations:

(a) Any sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company;

(b) A merger or consolidation involving the Company, unless the stockholders of the Company
receive in the transaction, with respect to their stock in the Company, stock or other securities
representing a majority in voting interest of the acquiring entity s equity securities;

(c) Any sale of a majority voting interest of the outstanding stock of the Company by the
holders thereof in a single transaction or series of related transactions;

(d) Notice of termination or a material change in the nature or scope of Executive s
responsibilities, title and authority immediately prior to the Change in Control;

(e) decrease in the total annual compensation or benefits payable to Executive other than as a
result of a decrease in incentive-based compensation payable to the Executive and to all other
executive officers of Company on the basis of Company s financial performance;

(f) requirement imposed by Company that Executive relocate to an office that is more than
fifty (50) miles distant from the office at which he is employed or the borne at which he resides
immediately prior to the Change in Control.

5. CAUSE DEFINED. 

For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Cause  shall mean discharge resulting from a
determination by the Company that you have: (i) been convicted of a criminal offense involving
dishonesty, fraud, theft, embezzlement, breach of trust or moral turpitude; (ii) performed an act
or failed to act which, if you were prosecuted and convicted, would constitute a crime or offense
involving money or property of the Company; or (iii) willfully refused to perform the duties
reasonably assigned to you and consistent with your status as Executive Officer of the Company.

6. CEILING ON BENEFITS. 

The Code places significant tax burdens on you and the Company if the total payments made to
you due to a Change in Control exceed prescribed limits. For example, if your limit is $749,999
(because your  Base Period Income  (as defined below) is $250,000) and the  Total Payments  (as
defined below) exceed the limit by even $1.00, you are subject to an excise tax under Section 4999
of the Code of 20% of all amounts paid to you in excess of $250,000. If

, 2006 
Page 4

your limit is $749,999,
you will not be subject to an excise tax if you receive exactly $749,999. If you receive $750,000,
you will be subject to an excise tax of $100,000 (20% of $500,000).

In order to avoid this excise tax and the related adverse tax consequences for the Company, by
signing this Agreement, you agree that the present value of your Total Payments
will not exceed an amount equal to 2.99 times your Base Period Income. This is the maximum
amount which you may receive without becoming subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of
the Code or which the Company may pay without loss of deduction under Section 280G of the Code.

Base Period Income  is an amount equal to your  annualized includible compensation  for the
 base period  as defined in Sections 280G(d)(1) and (2) of the Code and the regulations adopted
thereunder. Generally, your  annualized includible compensation  is the average of your annual
taxable income from the Company for the  base period,  which is the five calendar years prior to
the year in which the Change in Control occurs (or the number of years worked if less than five).
For example, if a Change in Control occurs in 2009, your base period compensation would be the
average of the compensation includible in your income for years 2006, 2007, 2008 and because you
were first employed in 2005, your annualized compensation for that partial year. Any compensation
includible in your income for 2009 is disregarded for these purposes. These concepts are
complicated and technical and all of the rules set forth in the applicable regulations apply for
purposes of this Agreement.

Your  Total Payments  include the sum of the Severance Payment and any other  payments in the
nature of compensation  (as defined in Section 280G of the Code and the regulations adopted
thereunder).

If WED believes that these rules will result in a reduction of the payments to which you are
entitled under this Agreement, it will so notify you within 60 days following delivery of the
 Notice of Termination  described in Section 7. You and WED will then, at WED s expense, retain
legal counsel, certified public accountants, and/or a firm of recognized executive compensation
consultants to provide an opinion or opinions concerning whether your Total Payments exceed the
limit discussed above.

WED will select the legal counsel, certified public accountants and executive compensation
consultants. If you do not accept one or more of the parties selected by WED you may provide WED
with the names of legal counsel, certified public accountants and/or executive compensation
consultants acceptable to you. If WED does not accept the party or parties selected by you, the
legal counsel, certified public accountants and/or executive compensation consultants selected by
you and WED, respectively, will select the legal counsel, certified public accountants and/or
executive compensation consultants to provide the opinions required.

, 2006 
Page 5

At a minimum, the opinions required by this Section 6 must set forth (a) the amount of your
Base Period Income, (b) the present value of the Total Payments and (c) the amount and present
value of any excess parachute payments.

If the opinions state that there would be an excess parachute payment, your payments under
this Agreement will be reduced to the extent necessary to eliminate the excess.

You will be allowed to choose which payment should be reduced or eliminated, but the payment
you choose to reduce or eliminate must be a payment determined by such legal counsel, certified
public accountants, and/or executive compensation consultants to be includible in Total Payments.
You will make your decision in writing and deliver it to WED within 30 days of your
receipt of such opinions. If you fail to so notify WED, it will decide which payments to
reduce or eliminate.

If the legal counsel, certified public accountants, and/or executive compensation consultants
selected to provide the opinions referred to above so requests in connection with the opinion
required by this Section 6, a firm of recognized executive compensation consultants, selected by
you and WED pursuant to the procedures set forth above, shall provide an opinion, upon which such
legal counsel, certified public accountants, and/or executive compensation consultants may rely, as
to the reasonableness of any item of compensation as reasonable compensation for services rendered
before or after the Change in Control.

If WED believes that your Total Payments will exceed the limitations of this Section 6, it
will nonetheless make payments to you, at the times stated above, in the maximum amount that it
believes may be paid without exceeding such limitations. The balance, if any, will then be paid
after the opinions called for above have been received.

If the amount paid to you by WED is ultimately determined, pursuant to the opinion referred to
above or by the Internal Revenue Service, to have exceeded the limitation of this Section 6, the
excess will be treated as a loan to you by WED and shall be repayable on the 90th day following
demand by WED, together with interest at the  applicable federal rate  provided in Section 1274(d)
of the Code.

In the event that the provisions of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code are repealed without
succession, this Section 6 shall be of no further force or effect.

7. SUCCESSORS. 

WED will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation
or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of WED to assume, whether
expressly or by operation of law, this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the
Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken

, 2006 
Page 6

place. As used in this
agreement  Company  shall mean Company, as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business
and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law
or otherwise.

8. BINDING AGREEMENT. 

This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by you and your personal or
legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and
legatees. If you should die while any amount would still be payable to you hereunder had you
continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement to your devisee, legatee or other designee or, if there is no such
designee, to your estate.

9. NOTICE. 

For purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in this
Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered
or mailed by United States certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage
prepaid, addressed to the respective addresses set forth on the first page of this Agreement,
provided that all notices to WED shall be directed to the attention of the Chief Executive Officer
of WED with a copy to the General Counsel of WED, or to such other address as either party may have
furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notice of change of address
shall be effective only upon receipt.

10. MISCELLANEOUS. 

No provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived or discharged unless such waiver,
modification or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by you and a senior executive officer
of the Company or a member of the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of
WED. No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto of, or
compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement to be performed by such other party
shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any
prior or subsequent time. No agreement or representations, oral or otherwise, express or implied,
with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either party which are not expressly
set forth in this Agreement. The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this
Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Arizona without regard to its conflicts of
law principles. All references to sections of the Act or the Code shall be deemed also to refer to
any successor provisions to such sections. Any payments provided for hereunder shall be paid net
of any applicable withholding required under federal, state or local law.

, 2006 
Page 7

11. VALIDITY. 

The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the
validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full
force and effect.

12. COUNTERPARTS. 

This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall he deemed to be an
original but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.

13. ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION. 

All claims, disputes and other matters in question between the parties arising under this
Agreement shall, unless otherwise provided herein (such as in Sections 6 and 7(d)), be resolved by
the arbitration provisions set forth below.

Any dispute, controversy, or claim, whether contractual or non-contractual, between WED and
you arising directly or indirectly out of or connected with this Agreement, relating to the breach
or alleged breach of any representation, warranty, agreement, or covenant under this Agreement,
unless mutually settled by the parties hereto, shall be resolved by binding arbitration in
accordance with the Employment Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association (the
 AAA ). Any arbitration shall be conducted by arbitrators approved by the AAA and mutually
acceptable to WED and you. All such disputes, controversies, or claims shall be
conducted by a single arbitrator, unless the dispute involves more than $100,000 in the
aggregate in which case the arbitration shall be conducted by a panel of three arbitrators. If the
parties hereto are unable to agree on the arbitrator(s), then the AAA shall select the
arbitrator(s). The resolution of the dispute by the arbitrator(s) shall be final, binding,
nonappealable, and fully enforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction under the Federal
Arbitration Act. The arbitrator(s) shall award damages to the prevailing party. The arbitration
award shall be in writing and shall include a statement of the reasons for the award. The
arbitration shall be held in the Phoenix metropolitan area. The arbitrator(s) shall award
reasonable attorneys  fees and costs to the prevailing party.

14. EXPENSES AND INTEREST. 

If a good faith dispute shall arise with respect to the enforcement of your rights under this
Agreement or if any arbitration or legal proceeding shall be brought in good faith to enforce or
interpret any provision contained herein, or to recover damages for breach hereof, and you are the
prevailing party, you shall recover from the Company any reasonable attorneys  fees and necessary
costs and disbursements incurred as a result of such dispute or legal proceeding, and prejudgment
interest on any money judgment obtained by you calculated at the rate of interest

, 2006 
Page 8

announced by
Guaranty Bank from time to time as its prime rate from the date that payments to you should have
been made under this Agreement.

15. PAYMENT OBLIGATIONS ABSOLUTE. 

WED s obligation to pay you the compensation and to make the arrangements in accordance with
the provisions herein shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any
circumstances; provided, however, that the Company may apply amounts payable under this Agreement
to any debts owed to the Company by you on your Termination Date. All amounts payable by WED in
accordance with this Agreement shall be paid without notice or demand. If WED has paid you more
than the amount to which you are entitled under this Agreement, the Company shall have the right to
recover all or any part of such overpayment from you or from whomsoever has received such amount.

16. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. 

This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement between you and WED concerning the subject
matter discussed in this Agreement and supersedes all prior agreements, promises, covenants,
arrangements, communications, representations, or warranties, whether written or oral, by any
officer, employee or representative of the Company. Any prior agreements or understandings with
respect to the subject matter set forth in this Agreement are hereby terminated and canceled.

17. PARTIES. 

This Agreement is an agreement between you and WED. In certain cases, though, obligations
imposed upon WED may be satisfied by a subsidiary of WED. Any payment made or action taken by a
subsidiary of WED shall be considered to be a payment made or action taken by WED for purposes of
determining whether WED has satisfied its obligations under this Agreement.

18. SECTION 409A. 

The Company believes that the benefits provided pursuant to this Section 2 of this Agreement
comply with the short-term deferral exception to the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code (the  Code ) as described in Prop. Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(b)(4). Under no
circumstances may the time or schedule of any payment made or benefit provided pursuant to this
Agreement be accelerated or subject to a further deferral except as otherwise permitted or required
pursuant to regulations and other guidance issued pursuant to Section 409A of the Code. You do not
have any right to make any election regarding the time or form of any payment due under the terms
of this Agreement. If the Company concludes at a later date, in the exercise of its discretion,
that the short-term deferral exception or any other exception to the

, 2006 
Page 9

requirements of Section 409A
is available, the terms of this Agreement shall be performed in compliance with Section 409A and
each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted, to the extent possible, to comply with
Section 409A.

If you would like to participate in this special benefits program, please sign and return the
extra copy of this letter which is enclosed.

Sincerely, 

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGN  

By:

/s/ Hamid R. Shokrgozar 

Name:

Hamid R. Shokrgozar 

Title:

Chairman   CEO 

ACCEPTANCE and ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 

I hereby accept the offer to participate in this special benefits program and I agree to be
bound by all of the provisions noted above.

/s/ Dan Tarantine 
  
14, Dec.06

</EX-10.26>

<EX-10.27>
 6
 p73257exv10w27.htm
 EX-10.27

exv10w27 

Exhibit 10.27

December 13, 2006

Roger A. Derse 
3601 E. University Dr. 
Phoenix, AZ 85034

Change in Control Agreement 

Dear Roger:

The Board of Directors believes that it is in the best interests of White Electronic Design
( WED ) to take appropriate steps to allay any concerns you may have about your future employment
opportunities with WED and its subsidiaries (WED and its subsidiaries are collectively referred to
as the  Company ). As a result, the Board has decided to offer to you the benefits described
below.

Please bear in mind that these benefits are being offered only to a few, selected employees
and we accordingly ask that you refrain from discussing this program with others. Also, please
note that the benefits described below will only be effective if you sign the extra copy of this
Change in Control Agreement (the  Agreement ) which is enclosed and return it to me. This
Agreement was drafted to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended ( Code) and the proposed regulations issued thereunder. If the final
regulations issued under Code Section 409A provide for more liberalized rules than those under this
Agreement, and if the Company decides to amend the change in control agreements for other Company
executives to reflect any such change, this Agreement will be amended in a manner consistent with
the amendments made to those other change in control agreements.

1. TERM OF AGREEMENT. 

This Agreement is effective immediately and will continue in effect as long as you are
actively employed by the Company, unless you and the Company agree in writing to its termination.

2. SEVERANCE PAYMENT AND STOCK OPTION ACCELERATION. 

If your employment with the Company is terminated without  Cause  (as defined in Section 5) at
any time within twelve (12) months following a  Change in Control  (as defined in Section 4), you
will receive the  Severance Payment  described below.

The
Severance Payment shall be an amount equal to the greater of your annual base salary and
annual bonus of the two years immediately prior to the Change in Control.

Dec            
   13   , 2006 
Page 2

The Severance Payment will be paid in one lump sum within five business days following your
termination of employment.

You are not entitled to receive the Severance Payment if your employment is terminated for
Cause if you voluntarily terminate your employment for any reason, or if your employment is
terminated by reason of your  Disability  (as defined below) or your death. In addition, you are
not entitled to receive the Severance Payment if your employment is terminated by you or the
Company for any or no reason before a Change in Control occurs or more than twelve (12) months
after a Change in Control has occurred. For purposes of this agreement,  Disability  shall mean an
incapacity due to physical or mental illness that results in you being medically unable to fulfill
your duties of employment for one hundred eighty (180) calendar days in the aggregate in any twelve
(12) months period.

In order to receive the Severance Payment, you must execute any release reasonably requested
by the Company.

The Severance Payment will be paid to you without regard to whether you look for or obtain
alternative employment following your termination of employment with the Company.

Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement or in any option agreement to the contrary, upon a
Change in Control, any stock option granted to you shall accelerate and become vested without
further action. The exercise of the options will be based on the Company s policy.

3. BENEFITS CONTINUATION. 

If you are entitled to severance under Section 2, and you elect to continue your COBRA
coverage benefits, the Company will pay your COBRA coverage premiums for a period of twelve (12)
months following your termination of employment, provided that the Company payment shall cease if
your COBRA coverage terminates in accordance with applicable rules.

The Company does not intend to provide duplicative benefits. As a result, benefits otherwise
receivable pursuant to this Section 3 shall be reduced or eliminated if and to the extent that you
receive such benefits pursuant to any employment agreement you may have with the Company.

Benefits otherwise receivable pursuant to this Section 3 also shall be reduced or eliminated
if and to the extent that you receive comparable benefits from any other source (for example,
another employer); provided, however, you shall have no obligation to seek, solicit or accept
employment from another employer in order to receive the benefits provided by this Agreement.

Dec            
   13   , 2006 
Page 3

4. CHANGE IN CONTROL DEFINED. 

For purposes of this Agreement, the term Change in Control shall mean and include the
following transactions or situations:

(a) Any sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company;

(b) A merger or consolidation involving the Company, unless the stockholders of the Company
receive in the transaction, with respect to their stock in the Company, stock or other securities
representing a majority in voting interest of the acquiring entity s equity securities;

(c) Any sale of a majority voting interest of the outstanding stock of the Company by the
holders thereof in a single transaction or series of related transactions;

(d) Notice of termination or a material change in the nature or scope of Executive s
responsibilities, title and authority immediately prior to the Change in Control;

(e) decrease in the total annual compensation or benefits payable to Executive other than as a
result of a decrease in incentive-based compensation payable to the Executive and to all other
executive officers of Company on the basis of Company s financial performance;

(f) requirement imposed by Company that Executive relocate to an office that is more than
fifty (50) miles distant from the office at which he is employed or the borne at which he resides
immediately prior to the Change in Control.

5. CAUSE DEFINED. 

For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Cause  shall mean discharge resulting from a
determination by the Company that you have: (i) been convicted of a criminal offense involving
dishonesty, fraud, theft, embezzlement, breach of trust or moral turpitude; (ii) performed an act
or failed to act which, if you were prosecuted and convicted, would constitute a crime or offense
involving money or property of the Company; or (iii) willfully refused to perform the duties
reasonably assigned to you and consistent with your status as Executive Officer of the Company.

6. CEILING ON BENEFITS. 

The Code places significant tax burdens on you and the Company if the total payments made to
you due to a Change in Control exceed prescribed limits. For example, if your limit is $749,999
(because your  Base Period Income  (as defined below) is $250,000) and the  Total Payments  (as
defined below) exceed the limit by even $1.00, you are subject to an excise tax under Section 4999
of the Code of 20% of all amounts paid to you in excess of $250,000. If

Dec            
   13   , 2006 
Page 4

your limit is $749,999, you will not be subject to an excise tax if you receive exactly
$749,999. If you receive $750,000, you will be subject to an excise tax of $100,000 (20% of
$500,000).

In order to avoid this excise tax and the related adverse tax consequences for the Company, by
signing this Agreement, you agree that the present value of your Total Payments will not exceed an
amount equal to 2.99 times your Base Period Income. This is the maximum amount which you may
receive without becoming subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or which the
Company may pay without loss of deduction under Section 280G of the Code.

Base Period Income  is an amount equal to your  annualized includible compensation  for the
 base period  as defined in Sections 280G(d)(1) and (2) of the Code and the regulations adopted
thereunder. Generally, your  annualized includible compensation  is the average of your annual
taxable income from the Company for the  base period,  which is the five calendar years prior to
the year in which the Change in Control occurs (or the number of years worked if less than five).
For example, if a Change in Control occurs in 2009, your base period compensation would be the
average of the compensation includible in your income for years 2006, 2007, 2008 and because you
were first employed in 2005, your annualized compensation for that partial year. Any compensation
includible in your income for 2009 is disregarded for these purposes. These concepts are
complicated and technical and all of the rules set forth in the applicable regulations apply for
purposes of this Agreement.

Your  Total Payments  include the sum of the Severance Payment and any other  payments in the
nature of compensation  (as defined in Section 280G of the Code and the regulations adopted
thereunder).

If WED believes that these rules will result in a reduction of the payments to which you are
entitled under this Agreement, it will so notify you within 60 days following delivery of the
 Notice of Termination  described in Section 7. You and WED will then, at WED s expense, retain
legal counsel, certified public accountants, and/or a firm of recognized executive compensation
consultants to provide an opinion or opinions concerning whether your Total Payments exceed the
limit discussed above.

WED will select the legal counsel, certified public accountants and executive compensation
consultants. If you do not accept one or more of the parties selected by WED you may provide WED
with the names of legal counsel, certified public accountants and/or executive compensation
consultants acceptable to you. If WED does not accept the party or parties selected by you, the
legal counsel, certified public accountants and/or executive compensation consultants selected by
you and WED, respectively, will select the legal counsel, certified public accountants and/or
executive compensation consultants to provide the opinions required.

Dec            
   13   , 2006 
Page 5

At a minimum, the opinions required by this Section 6 must set forth (a) the amount of your
Base Period Income, (b) the present value of the Total Payments and (c) the amount and present
value of any excess parachute payments.

If the opinions state that there would be an excess parachute payment, your payments under
this Agreement will be reduced to the extent necessary to eliminate the excess.

You will be allowed to choose which payment should be reduced or eliminated, but the payment
you choose to reduce or eliminate must be a payment determined by such legal counsel, certified
public accountants, and/or executive compensation consultants to be includible in Total Payments.
You will make your decision in writing and deliver it to WED within 30 days of your receipt of such
opinions. If you fail to so notify WED, it will decide which payments to reduce or eliminate.

If the legal counsel, certified public accountants, and/or executive compensation consultants
selected to provide the opinions referred to above so requests in connection with the opinion
required by this Section 6, a firm of recognized executive compensation consultants, selected by
you and WED pursuant to the procedures set forth above, shall provide an opinion, upon which such
legal counsel, certified public accountants, and/or executive compensation consultants may rely, as
to the reasonableness of any item of compensation as reasonable compensation for services rendered
before or after the Change in Control.

If WED believes that your Total Payments will exceed the limitations of this Section 6, it
will nonetheless make payments to you, at the times stated above, in the maximum amount that it
believes may be paid without exceeding such limitations. The balance, if any, will then be paid
after the opinions called for above have been received.

If the amount paid to you by WED is ultimately determined, pursuant to the opinion referred to
above or by the Internal Revenue Service, to have exceeded the limitation of this Section 6, the
excess will be treated as a loan to you by WED and shall be repayable on the 90th day following
demand by WED, together with interest at the  applicable federal rate  provided in Section 1274(d)
of the Code.

In the event that the provisions of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code are repealed without
succession, this Section 6 shall be of no further force or effect.

7. SUCCESSORS. 

WED will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation
or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of WED to assume, whether
expressly or by operation of law, this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the
Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken

Dec            
   13   , 2006 
Page 6

place. As used in this agreement  Company  shall mean Company, as hereinbefore defined and
any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this
Agreement by operation of law or otherwise.

8. BINDING AGREEMENT. 

This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by you and your personal or
legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and
legatees. If you should die while any amount would still be payable to you hereunder had you
continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement to your devisee, legatee or other designee or, if there is no such
designee, to your estate.

9. NOTICE. 

For purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in this
Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or mailed
by United States certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed
to the respective addresses set forth on the first page of this Agreement, provided that all
notices to WED shall be directed to the attention of the Chief Executive Officer of WED with a copy
to the General Counsel of WED, or to such other address as either party may have furnished to the
other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notice of change of address shall be effective
only upon receipt.

10. MISCELLANEOUS. 

No provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived or discharged unless such waiver,
modification or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by you and a senior executive officer
of the Company or a member of the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of
WED. No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto of, or
compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement to be performed by such other party
shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any
prior or subsequent time. No agreement or representations, oral or otherwise, express or implied,
with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either party which are not expressly
set forth in this Agreement. The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this
Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Arizona without regard to its conflicts of
law principles. All references to sections of the Act or the Code shall be deemed also to refer to
any successor provisions to such sections. Any payments provided for hereunder shall be paid net
of any applicable withholding required under federal, state or local law.

Dec            
   13   , 2006 
Page 7

11. VALIDITY. 

The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the
validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full
force and effect.

12. COUNTERPARTS. 

This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall he deemed to be an
original but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.

13. ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION. 

All claims, disputes and other matters in question between the parties arising under this
Agreement shall, unless otherwise provided herein (such as in Sections 6 and 7(d)), be resolved by
the arbitration provisions set forth below.

Any dispute, controversy, or claim, whether contractual or non-contractual, between WED and
you arising directly or indirectly out of or connected with this Agreement, relating to the breach
or alleged breach of any representation, warranty, agreement, or covenant under this Agreement,
unless mutually settled by the parties hereto, shall be resolved by binding arbitration in
accordance with the Employment Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association (the
 AAA ). Any arbitration shall be conducted by arbitrators approved by the AAA and mutually
acceptable to WED and you. All such disputes, controversies, or claims shall be conducted by a
single arbitrator, unless the dispute involves more than $100,000 in the aggregate in which case
the arbitration shall be conducted by a panel of three arbitrators. If the parties hereto are
unable to agree on the arbitrator(s), then the AAA shall select the arbitrator(s). The resolution
of the dispute by the arbitrator(s) shall be final, binding, nonappealable, and fully enforceable
by a court of competent jurisdiction under the Federal Arbitration Act. The arbitrator(s) shall
award damages to the prevailing party. The arbitration award shall be in writing and shall include
a statement of the reasons for the award. The arbitration shall be held in the Phoenix
metropolitan area. The arbitrator(s) shall award reasonable attorneys  fees and costs to the
prevailing party.

14. EXPENSES AND INTEREST. 

If a good faith dispute shall arise with respect to the enforcement of your rights under this
Agreement or if any arbitration or legal proceeding shall be brought in good faith to enforce or
interpret any provision contained herein, or to recover damages for breach hereof, and you are the
prevailing party, you shall recover from the Company any reasonable attorneys  fees and necessary
costs and disbursements incurred as a result of such dispute or legal proceeding, and prejudgment
interest on any money judgment obtained by you calculated at the rate of interest

Dec            
   13   , 2006 
Page 8

announced by Guaranty Bank from time to time as its prime rate from the date that payments to
you should have been made under this Agreement.

15. PAYMENT OBLIGATIONS ABSOLUTE. 

WED s obligation to pay you the compensation and to make the arrangements in accordance with
the provisions herein shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any
circumstances; provided, however, that the Company may apply amounts payable under this Agreement
to any debts owed to the Company by you on your Termination Date. All amounts payable by WED in
accordance with this Agreement shall be paid without notice or demand. If WED has paid you more
than the amount to which you are entitled under this Agreement, the Company shall have the right to
recover all or any part of such overpayment from you or from whomsoever has received such amount.

16. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. 

This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement between you and WED concerning the subject
matter discussed in this Agreement and supersedes all prior agreements, promises, covenants,
arrangements, communications, representations, or warranties, whether written or oral, by any
officer, employee or representative of the Company. Any prior agreements or understandings with
respect to the subject matter set forth in this Agreement are hereby terminated and canceled.

17. PARTIES. 

This Agreement is an agreement between you and WED. In certain cases, though, obligations
imposed upon WED may be satisfied by a subsidiary of WED. Any payment made or action taken by a
subsidiary of WED shall be considered to be a payment made or action taken by WED for purposes of
determining whether WED has satisfied its obligations under this Agreement.

18. SECTION 409A. 

The Company believes that the benefits provided pursuant to this Section 2 of this Agreement
comply with the short-term deferral exception to the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code (the  Code ) as described in Prop. Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(b)(4). Under no
circumstances may the time or schedule of any payment made or benefit provided pursuant to this
Agreement be accelerated or subject to a further deferral except as otherwise permitted or required
pursuant to regulations and other guidance issued pursuant to Section 409A of the Code. You do not
have any right to make any election regarding the time or form of any payment due under the terms
of this Agreement. If the Company concludes at a later date, in the exercise of its discretion,
that the short-term deferral exception or any other exception to the

Dec            
   13   , 2006 
Page 9

requirements of Section 409A is available, the terms of this Agreement shall be performed in
compliance with Section 409A and each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted, to the
extent possible, to comply with Section 409A.

If you would like to participate in this special benefits program, please sign and return the
extra copy of this letter which is enclosed.

Sincerely, 

WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGN  

By:   
     /s/ Hamid R. Shokrgozar

Name:   
     Hamid R. Shokrgozar  

Title:   
     Chairman   CEO  

ACCEPTANCE and ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 

I hereby accept the offer to participate in this special benefits program and I agree to be
bound by all of the provisions noted above.

/s/ Roger A. Derse 

</EX-10.27>

<EX-21.1>
 7
 p73257exv21w1.htm
 EX-21.1

exv21w1 

EXHIBIT 21.1

SUBSIDIARIES OF 
WHITE ELECTRONIC DESIGNS CORPORATION 

Name of Subsidiary  
       
      Domicile  

Panelview, Incorporated

Oregon 

IDS Acquisition Corporation  (1) 

Arizona 

Electronic Designs, Inc.

Delaware 

Bowmar/A.L.I., Inc.

Massachusetts 

Graymor Coatings, Incorporated  (2) 

Oregon 

(1) 
       
     IDS Acquisition Corporation is a direct subsidiary of White Electronic Designs
Corporation. 

(2) 
       
     Graymor Coatings, Incorporated is a direct subsidiary of Panelview,
Incorporated. 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 8
 p73257exv23w1.htm
 EX-23.1

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3
(Nos. 333-105754 and 333-106737) and Form S-8 (Nos. 333-60544, 333-60536, 333-60546, 333-60548,
333-60542, and 333-103292) of White Electronic Designs Corporation of our report dated December
14, 2006 relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedule, management s
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Phoenix, Arizona 
December 14, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 p73257exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

exv31w1 

I, Hamid R. Shokrgozar, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of White Electronic Designs
Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this annual report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this annual report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this annual report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over
financial reporting. 

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ Hamid R. Shokrgozar

Hamid R. Shokrgozar

President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 p73257exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

exv31w2 

I, Roger A. Derse, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of White Electronic Designs
Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this annual report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this annual report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this annual report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over
financial reporting. 

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ Roger A. Derse

Roger A. Derse

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 11
 p73257exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 
As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of White Electronic Designs Corporation (the  Company )
on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Hamid Shokrgozar, Chief Executive Officer of the
Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) 
       
     the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ Hamid Shokrgozar

Hamid Shokrgozar

Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 12
 p73257exv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2 

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 
As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of White Electronic Designs Corporation (the  Company )
on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Roger A. Derse, Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) 
       
     the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date: December 14, 2006

/s/ Roger A. Derse

Roger A. Derse

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-32.2>

