<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061122_10-K_edgar_data_731802_0000950134-06-022105_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2361525</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>389004</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1432045</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>105</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-06-022105.hdr.sgml : 20061122
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061122143903
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-06-022105
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061122
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061122

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ATMOS ENERGY CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000731802
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION [4924]
		IRS NUMBER:				751743247
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			TX
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-10042
		FILM NUMBER:		061236024

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1800 THREE LINCOLN CTR
		STREET 2:		5430 LBJ FREEWAY
		CITY:			DALLAS
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75240
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9729349227

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1800 THREE LINCOLN CTR
		STREET 2:		5430 LBJ FREEWAY
		CITY:			DALLAS
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75240

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ENERGAS CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19881024

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Kn1Z9ffIV6aRDpR+qFn8TUie+MgfSRex40JWa2IWp7mLNi9lTk2R9Uy9e3quxJ6N
 38FYKlGIs9NwpbQ8XhIwXA==

 0000950134-06-022105.txt : 20061122

10-K
 1
 d41478e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission file number 1-10042 

Atmos Energy
    Corporation  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 

(972) 934-9227  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Name of Each Exchange 

Title of Each Class 

on Which Registered 

Common stock, No Par Value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 
    None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No  o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No  o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
    filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
    accelerated filer  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer         Accelerated
    filer  o      Non-accelerated
    filer  o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act).  Yes  o      No   

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
    non-affiliates of the registrant as of the last business day of
    the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal
    quarter, March 31, 2006, was $2,064,662,421.

As of November 8, 2006, the registrant had
    81,823,767 shares of common stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the registrant s Definitive Proxy Statement to
    be filed for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on
    February 7, 2007 are incorporated by reference into
    Part III of this report.

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

Page 

Glossary of Key
    Terms   

3

PART I   

Item 1.  

Business  

4

Item 1A.  

Risk
    Factors  

23

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff
    Comments  

27

Item 2.  

Properties  

27

Item 3.  

Legal
    Proceedings  

30

Item 4.  

Submission of
    Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

30

PART II   

Item 5.  

Market for
    Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

32

Item 6.  

Selected Financial
    Data  

33

Item 7.  

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  

35

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

62

Item 8.  

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data  

64

Item 9.  

Changes in and
    Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
    Disclosure  

124

Item 9A.  

Controls and
    Procedures  

124

Item 9B.  

Other
    Information  

126

PART III   

Item 10.  

Directors and
    Executive Officers of the Registrant  

126

Item 11.  

Executive
    Compensation  

126

Item 12.  

Security Ownership
    of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
    Stockholder Matters  

126

Item 13.  

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions  

126

Item 14.  

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services  

127

PART IV   

Item 15.  

Exhibits and
    Financial Statement Schedules  

127

Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges    
     Subsidiaries of the Registrant    
     Consent of Ernst & Young LLP    
     Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications    
     Section 1350 Certifications    
     Annual Certification Pursuant to Section 303A.12    

2

Table of Contents   

GLOSSARY
    OF KEY TERMS  

AEC 

Atmos Energy Corporation

AEH 

Atmos Energy Holdings, Inc.

AEM 

Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC

AES 

Atmos Energy Services, LLC

APB 

Accounting Principles Board

APS 

Atmos Pipeline and Storage, LLC

ATO 

Trading symbol for Atmos Energy Corporation common stock on the
    New York Stock Exchange

Bcf 

Billion cubic feet

COSO 

Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission

EITF 

Emerging Issues Task Force

FASB 

Financial Accounting Standards Board

FERC 

Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

FIN 

FASB Interpretation

Fitch 

Fitch Ratings, Ltd.

FSP 

FASB Staff Position

GRIP 

Gas Reliability Infrastructure Program

Heritage 

Heritage Propane Partners, L.P.

iFERC 

Inside FERC

KPSC 

Kentucky Public Service Commission

LGS 

Louisiana Gas Service Company and LGS Natural Gas Company, which
    were acquired July 1, 2001

LPSC 

Louisiana Public Service Commission

Mcf 

Thousand cubic feet

MDWQ 

Maximum daily withdrawal quantity

MMcf 

Million cubic feet

Moody s 

Moody s Investor Services, Inc.

MPSC 

Mississippi Public Service Commission

MVG 

Mississippi Valley Gas Company, which was acquired 
    December 3, 2002

NYMEX 

New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc.

NYSE 

New York Stock Exchange

RRC 

Railroad Commission of Texas

RSC 

Rate Stabilization Clause

S&P 

Standard & Poor s Corporation

SEC 

United States Securities and Exchange Commission

SFAS 

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards

TXU Gas 

TXU Gas Company, which was acquired on October 1, 2004

USP 

U.S. Propane, L.P.

VCC 

Virginia Corporation Commission

WNA 

Weather Normalization Adjustment

3

Table of Contents   

PART I  

The terms  we,   our,   us, 
     Atmos  and  Atmos Energy  refer to Atmos
    Energy Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context
    suggests otherwise.

ITEM 1.      

Business   

Overview  

Atmos Energy Corporation, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is
    engaged primarily in the natural gas utility business as well as
    other natural gas nonutility businesses. We are one of the
    country s largest natural-gas-only distributors based on
    number of customers and one of the largest intrastate pipeline
    operators in Texas based upon miles of pipe. As of
    September 30, 2006, we distributed natural gas through
    sales and transportation arrangements to approximately
    3.2 million residential, commercial, public authority and
    industrial customers through our seven regulated utility
    divisions, which covered service areas in 12 states. Our
    primary service areas are located in Colorado, Kansas, Kentucky,
    Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee and Texas. We have more
    limited service areas in Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Missouri and
    Virginia. In addition, we transport natural gas for others
    through our distribution system.

Through our nonutility businesses, we primarily provide natural
    gas management and marketing services to municipalities, other
    local gas distribution companies and industrial customers in
    22 states and natural gas transportation and storage
    services to certain of our utility divisions and to third
    parties.

We were organized under the laws of Texas in 1983 as Energas
    Company for the purpose of owning and operating the natural gas
    distribution business of Pioneer Corporation in Texas. In
    September 1988, we changed our name to Atmos Energy Corporation.
    As a result of the merger with United Cities Gas Company in July
    1997, we also became incorporated in Virginia.

Operating
    Segments  

Our operations are divided into four segments:

the utility segment, which includes our regulated natural gas
    distribution and related sales operations,

the natural gas marketing segment, which includes a variety of
    nonregulated natural gas management services,

the pipeline and storage segment, which includes our regulated
    and nonregulated natural gas transmission and storage
    services and

the other nonutility segment, which includes all of our other
    nonregulated nonutility operations.

Strategy  

Our overall strategy is to:

deliver superior shareholder value,

improve the quality and consistency of earnings growth, while
    operating our natural gas utility and nonutility businesses
    exceptionally well and

enhance and strengthen a culture built on our core values.

Over the last five years, we have primarily grown through two
    significant acquisitions, our acquisition in December 2002 of
    Mississippi Valley Gas Company (MVG) and our acquisition in
    October 2004 of the natural gas distribution and pipeline
    operations of TXU Gas Company (TXU Gas).

We have experienced over 20 consecutive years of increasing
    dividends and earnings growth after giving effect to our
    acquisitions. We have achieved this record of growth while
    operating our utility operations efficiently by managing our
    operating and maintenance expenses and leveraging our
    technology, such as our
     24-hour  call
    centers, to achieve more efficient operations. In addition, we
    have focused on regulatory rate

4

Table of Contents   

proceedings to increase revenue as our costs increase and
    mitigated weather-related risks through weather-normalized rates
    that now apply to most of our service areas. We have also
    strengthened our nonutility businesses by increasing gross
    profit margins, actively pursuing opportunities to increase the
    amount of storage available to us and expanding commercial
    opportunities in our pipeline and storage segment.

Our core values include focusing on our employees and customers
    while conducting our business with honesty and integrity. We
    continue to strengthen our culture through ongoing
    communications with our employees and enhanced employee training.

Utility
    Segment Overview  

We operated our utility segment through the following seven
    regulated natural gas utility divisions during the year ended
    September 30, 2006:

Atmos Energy Colorado-Kansas Division,

Atmos Energy Kentucky Division,

Atmos Energy Louisiana Division,

Atmos Energy Mid-States Division,

Atmos Energy Mid-Tex Division,

Atmos Energy Mississippi Division and

Atmos Energy West Texas Division.

Effective October 1, 2006, the Kentucky and Mid-States
    Divisions were combined.

Our natural gas utility distribution business is seasonal and
    dependent on weather conditions in our service areas. Gas sales
    to residential and commercial customers are greater during the
    winter months than during the remainder of the year. The volumes
    of gas sales during the winter months will vary with the
    temperatures during these months.

In addition to weather, our financial results are affected by
    the cost of natural gas and economic conditions in the areas
    that we serve. Higher gas costs, which we are generally able to
    pass through to our customers under purchased gas adjustment
    clauses, may cause customers to conserve or, in the case of
    industrial customers, to use alternative energy sources. Higher
    gas costs may also adversely impact our accounts receivable
    collections, resulting in higher bad debt expense and may
    require us to increase borrowings under our credit facilities
    resulting in higher interest expense.

The effect of weather that is above or below normal is
    substantially offset through weather normalization adjustments,
    known as WNA, which are now approved by the regulators for over
    90 percent of residential and commercial meters in our
    service areas. WNA allows us to increase customers  bills
    to offset lower gas usage when weather is warmer than normal and
    decrease customers  bills to offset higher gas usage when
    weather is colder than normal.

Prior to October 1, 2006, our largest division, the Mid-Tex
    Division, did not have WNA. However, its operations benefited
    from a rate structure that combined a monthly customer charge
    with a declining block rate schedule to partially mitigate the
    impact of
     warmer-than-normal 
    weather on revenue. The combination of the monthly customer
    charge and the customer billing under the first block of the
    declining block rate schedule provided for the recovery of most
    of our fixed costs for such operations under most weather
    conditions. However, this rate structure was not as beneficial
    during periods where weather was significantly warmer than
    normal.

In May 2006, the Mid-Tex Division filed a Statement of Intent
    seeking additional annual revenues of $60 million and
    several rate design changes including WNA. In July 2006, the
    Railroad Commission of Texas

5

Table of Contents   

(RRC) approved an interim and a permanent WNA, effective
    October 1, 2006 for the Mid-Tex Division. The agreement
    provided that the interim WNA will be based on the use of
    30 years of weather history, while the permanent WNA will
    allow the parties to contest the appropriate period of weather
    data to use in calculating normal weather. The permanent WNA
    will also be modified or adjusted to conform to the rate design
    that the RRC ultimately approves in the case. Additionally, in
    May 2006, we agreed to a settlement with the Louisiana Public
    Service Commission (LPSC) that authorized the implementation of
    WNA in our Louisiana Division effective December 1, 2006.

As of September 30, 2006 we had, or received regulatory
    approvals for WNA for our customer meters in the following
    service areas for the following periods:

Georgia

October   May

Kansas

October   May

Kentucky

November   April

Louisiana (1) 

December    March

Mid-Tex (1) 

October   May

Mississippi

November   April

Tennessee

November   April

Amarillo, Texas

October   May

West Texas

October   May

Lubbock, Texas

October   May

Virginia

January   December

Our natural gas supply comes from a variety of third-party
    providers and from gas held in storage. We anticipate that the
    natural gas supply for the upcoming winter heating season will
    be provided by a variety of suppliers, including independent
    producers, marketers and pipeline companies, in addition to
    withdrawals of gas from storage. Additionally, the natural gas
    supply for our Mid-Tex Division includes peaking and spot
    purchase agreements. We also contract for storage service in
    underground storage facilities on many of the interstate
    pipelines serving us. We estimate the peak-day availability of
    natural gas supply from long-term contracts, short-term
    contracts and withdrawals from underground storage to be
    approximately 4.2 Bcf. The peak-day demand for our utility
    operations in fiscal 2006 was on December 8, 2005, when
    sales to customers reached approximately 3.4 Bcf.

Supply arrangements are contracted from our suppliers on a firm
    basis with various terms at market prices. The firm supply
    consists of both base load and swing supply quantities. Base
    load quantities are those that flow at a constant level
    throughout the month and swing supply quantities provide the
    flexibility to change daily quantities to match increases or
    decreases in requirements related to weather conditions. Except
    for local production purchases, we select suppliers through a
    competitive bidding process by requesting proposals from
    suppliers that have demonstrated that they can provide reliable
    service. We select these suppliers based on their ability to
    deliver gas supply to our designated firm pipeline receipt
    points at the lowest cost. Major suppliers during fiscal 2006
    were Anadarko Energy Services, BP Energy Company, Chesapeake
    Energy Marketing, Inc., ConocoPhillips Company, Cross Timbers
    Energy Services, Inc., Devon Gas Services, L.P., Enbridge
    Marketing (US) L.P., PPM Energy, Inc., Tenaska Marketing and
    Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC, our natural gas marketing
    subsidiary.

The combination of base load, peaking and spot purchase
    agreements, coupled with the withdrawal of gas held in storage,
    allows us the flexibility to adjust to changes in weather, which
    minimizes our need to enter into long-term firm commitments.

Also, to maintain our deliveries to high priority customers, we
    have the ability, and have exercised our right, to curtail
    deliveries to certain customers under the terms of interruptible
    contracts or applicable state statutes or regulations. Our
    customers  demand on our system is not necessarily
    indicative of our ability to

6

Table of Contents   

meet current or anticipated market demands or immediate delivery
    requirements because of factors such as the physical limitations
    of gathering, storage and transmission systems, the duration and
    severity of cold weather, the availability of gas reserves from
    our suppliers, the ability to purchase additional supplies on a
    short-term basis and actions by federal and state regulatory
    authorities. Curtailment rights provide us the flexibility to
    meet the human-needs requirements of our customers on a firm
    basis. Priority allocations imposed by federal and state
    regulatory agencies, as well as other factors beyond our
    control, may affect our ability to meet the demands of our
    customers. We anticipate no problems with obtaining additional
    gas supply as needed for our customers.

We receive gas deliveries for all of our utility divisions,
    except for our Mid-Tex Division, through 37 pipeline
    transportation companies, both interstate and intrastate, to
    satisfy our natural gas needs. The pipeline transportation
    agreements are firm and many of them have  pipeline
    no-notice  storage service which provides for daily
    balancing between system requirements and nominated flowing
    supplies. These agreements have been negotiated with the
    shortest term necessary while still maintaining our right of
    first refusal. The natural gas supply for our Mid-Tex Division
    is delivered by our Atmos Pipeline   Texas Division.

The following is a brief description of our seven natural gas
    utility divisions. Additional information for our natural gas
    utility divisions is presented under the caption  Operating
    Statistics .

Atmos Energy Colorado-Kansas Division.   Our
    Colorado-Kansas Division operates in Colorado, Kansas and the
    southwestern corner of Missouri and is regulated by each
    respective state s public service commission with respect
    to accounting, rates and charges, operating matters and the
    issuance of securities. We operate under terms of non-exclusive
    franchises granted by the various cities. Rates in our Kansas
    service area are subject to WNA. The principal transporters of
    the Colorado-Kansas Division s gas supply requirements are
    Colorado Interstate Gas Company, Northwest Pipeline, Public
    Service Company of Colorado and Southern Star Central Pipeline.
    Additionally, the Colorado-Kansas Division purchases substantial
    volumes from producers that are connected directly to its
    distribution system.

Atmos Energy Kentucky Division.   Our Kentucky
    Division operates in Kentucky and is regulated by the Kentucky
    Public Service Commission (KPSC), which regulates utility
    services, rates, issuance of securities and other matters. We
    operate in various incorporated cities pursuant to non-exclusive
    franchises granted by these cities. The sale of natural gas for
    use as vehicle fuel in Kentucky is unregulated. In February
    2006, the KPSC approved our request to continue the
    performance-based ratemaking mechanism for an additional
    five-year period. Under the performance-based mechanism, we and
    our customers jointly share in any actual gas cost savings
    achieved when compared to pre-determined benchmarks. Our rates
    are also subject to WNA. The Kentucky Division s gas supply
    is delivered primarily by Midwestern Pipeline, Tennessee Gas
    Pipeline Company, Texas Gas Transmission LLC and Trunkline Gas
    Company. As noted below, this division was combined with the
    Mid-States Division effective October 1, 2006.

Atmos Energy Louisiana Division.   Our Louisiana
    Division operates in Louisiana and serves the metropolitan area
    of Monroe, the suburban areas of New Orleans and western
    Louisiana. Our Louisiana Division is regulated by the Louisiana
    Public Service Commission, which regulates utility services,
    rates and other matters. We operate most of our service areas
    pursuant to a non-exclusive franchise granted by the governing
    authority of each area. Direct sales of natural gas to
    industrial customers in Louisiana, who use gas for fuel or in
    manufacturing processes, and sales of natural gas for vehicle
    fuel are exempt from regulation and are recognized in our
    natural gas marketing segment. Effective beginning with the
     2006-2007 
    winter heating season, rates in our Louisiana service area will
    be subject to WNA. The principal transporters of the Louisiana
    Division s gas supply requirements are Acadian Pipeline,
    Gulf South, Louisiana Intrastate Gas Company, Texas Gas
    Transmission LLC and Trans Louisiana Gas Pipeline, Inc., a
    subsidiary of Atmos Pipeline and Storage, LLC.

Atmos Energy Mid-States Division.   Our
    Mid-States Division operates in Georgia, Illinois, Iowa,
    Missouri, Tennessee and Virginia. In each of these states, our
    rates, services and operations as a natural gas distribution
    company are subject to general regulation by each state s
    public service commission. We operate in each community, where
    necessary, under a franchise granted by the municipality for a
    fixed term of years. In Tennessee and Georgia, we have WNA and a
    performance-based rate program, which provides incentives

7

Table of Contents   

for us to find ways to lower costs and share the cost savings
    with our customers. We have WNA in our Virginia service area
    that covers the entire year. Our Mid-States Division is served
    by 13 interstate pipelines; however, the majority of the volumes
    are transported through Columbia Gulf, East Tennessee Pipeline,
    Southern Natural Gas and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The Kentucky
    Division was combined with the Mid-States Division effective
    October 1, 2006.

Atmos Energy Mid-Tex Division.   Our Mid-Tex
    Division includes the natural gas distribution operations that
    operate in the north-central, eastern and western parts of
    Texas. The Mid-Tex Division purchases, distributes and sells
    natural gas in approximately 550 cities and towns,
    including the 11-county Dallas/Fort Worth metropolitan
    area. This division currently operates under a system-wide rate
    structure. The governing body of each municipality we serve has
    original jurisdiction over all utility rates, operations and
    services within its city limits, except with respect to sales of
    natural gas for vehicle fuel and agricultural use. We operate
    pursuant to non-exclusive franchises granted by the
    municipalities we serve, which are subject to renewal from time
    to time. The RRC has exclusive appellate jurisdiction over all
    rate and regulatory orders and ordinances of the municipalities
    and exclusive original jurisdiction over rates and services to
    customers not located within the limits of a municipality.
    Effective beginning with the
     2006-2007 
    winter heating season, rates in our Mid-Tex service area will be
    subject to WNA.

Atmos Energy Mississippi Division.   Our Atmos
    Energy Mississippi Division operates in Mississippi and is
    regulated by the Mississippi Public Service Commission (MPSC)
    with respect to rates, services and operations. We operate under
    non-exclusive franchises granted by the municipalities we serve.
    Through fiscal 2005, we operated under a rate structure that
    allowed us, over a five-year period, to recover a portion of our
    integration costs associated with the MVG acquisition and
    operations and maintenance costs in excess of an agreed-upon
    benchmark. In addition, we were required to file for rate
    adjustments based on our expenses every six months. Effective
    October 1, 2005, our rate design was modified to substitute
    the original agreed-upon benchmark with a sharing mechanism to
    allow the sharing of cost savings above an allowed return on
    equity level. Further, beginning October 1, 2005, we moved
    from a semi-annual filing process to an annual filing process.
    We also have WNA in Mississippi. This division s gas supply
    is delivered primarily by Gulf South Pipeline Company, Tennessee
    Gas Pipeline Company, Southern Natural Gas Company, Texas
    Eastern Transmission, Texas Gas Transmission LLC, Trunkline Gas
    Co. LLC and Enbridge Marketing LP.

Atmos Energy West Texas Division.   Our West
    Texas Division operates in Texas in three primary service areas:
    the Amarillo service area, the Lubbock service area and the West
    Texas service area. Similar to our Mid-Tex Division, the
    governing body of each municipality we serve has original
    jurisdiction over all utility rates, operations and services
    within its city limits, except with respect to sales of natural
    gas for vehicle fuel and agricultural use. We operate pursuant
    to non-exclusive franchises granted by the municipalities we
    serve, which are subject to renewal from time to time. The RRC
    has exclusive appellate jurisdiction over all rate and
    regulatory orders and ordinances of the municipalities and
    exclusive original jurisdiction over rates and services to
    customers not located within the limits of a municipality. We
    have WNA in each of our service areas. Our West Texas Division
    receives transportation service from ONEOK Pipeline. In
    addition, the West Texas Division purchases a significant
    portion of its natural gas supply from Pioneer Natural
    Resources, which is connected directly to our Amarillo, Texas,
    distribution system.

Natural
    Gas Marketing Segment Overview  

Our natural gas marketing and other nonutility segments, which
    are organized under Atmos Energy Holdings, Inc. (AEH), have
    operations in 22 states. Through September 30, 2003,
    Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC, together with its wholly-owned
    subsidiaries Woodward Marketing, L.L.C. and Trans Louisiana
    Industrial Gas Company, Inc., comprised our natural gas
    marketing segment. Effective October 1, 2003, our natural
    gas marketing segment was reorganized. The operations of Atmos
    Energy Marketing, L.L.C. and Trans Louisiana Industrial Gas
    Company, Inc. were merged into Woodward Marketing, L.L.C., which
    was renamed Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC (AEM).

We acquired a 45 percent interest in Woodward Marketing,
    L.L.C. in July 1997 as a result of the merger of Atmos Energy
    and United Cities Gas Company, which had acquired that interest
    in May 1995. In April

8

Table of Contents   

2001, we acquired the remaining 55 percent interest that we
    did not own for 1,423,193 restricted shares of our common stock.

AEM provides a variety of natural gas management services to
    municipalities, natural gas utility systems and industrial
    natural gas consumers primarily in the southeastern and
    midwestern states and to our Kentucky, Louisiana and Mid-States
    divisions. These services primarily consist of furnishing
    natural gas supplies at fixed and market-based prices, contract
    negotiation and administration, load forecasting, gas storage
    acquisition and management services, transportation services,
    peaking sales and balancing services, capacity utilization
    strategies and gas price management through the use of
    derivative products. We use proprietary and customer-owned
    transportation and storage assets to provide the various
    services our customers request. As a result, our revenues arise
    from the types of commercial transactions we have structured
    with our customers and include the value we extract by
    optimizing the storage and transportation capacity we own or
    control as well as revenues for services we deliver.

We participate in transactions in which we combine the natural
    gas commodity and transportation costs to minimize our costs
    incurred to serve our customers. Additionally, we participate in
    natural gas storage transactions in which we seek to capture the
    pricing differences that occur over time. We purchase physical
    natural gas and then sell financial contracts at favorable
    prices to lock in a gross profit margin. Through the use of
    transportation and storage services and derivatives, we are able
    to capture gross profit margin through the arbitrage of pricing
    differences in various locations and by recognizing pricing
    differences that occur over time.

AEM s management of natural gas requirements involves the
    sale of natural gas and the management of storage and
    transportation supplies under contracts with customers generally
    having one to two year terms. AEM also sells natural gas to some
    of its industrial customers on a delivered burner tip basis
    under contract terms from 30 days to two years. At
    September 30, 2006, AEM had a total of 679 industrial, 73
    municipal and 289 other customers.

Pipeline
    and Storage Segment Overview  

Our pipeline and storage segment consists of the regulated
    pipeline and storage operations of the Atmos
    Pipeline   Texas Division and the nonregulated
    pipeline and storage operations of Atmos Pipeline and Storage,
    LLC (APS). The Atmos Pipeline   Texas Division
    transports natural gas to our Mid-Tex Division, transports
    natural gas for third parties and manages five underground
    storage reservoirs in Texas. We also provide ancillary services
    customary in the pipeline industry including parking
    arrangements, lending and sales of inventory on hand. Parking
    arrangements provide short-term interruptible storage of gas on
    our pipeline and lending services provide short-term
    interruptible loans of natural gas from our pipeline to meet
    market demands. Both of these services are primarily offered on
    our Atmos Pipeline   Texas system. These operations
    represent one of the largest intrastate pipeline operations in
    Texas with a heavy concentration in the established natural
    gas-producing areas of central, northern and eastern Texas,
    extending into or near the major producing areas of the Texas
    Gulf Coast and the Delaware and Val Verde Basins of West Texas.
    Nine basins located in Texas are believed to contain a
    substantial portion of the nation s remaining onshore
    natural gas reserves. This pipeline system provides access to
    all of these basins.

APS owns or has an interest in underground storage fields in
    Kentucky and Louisiana. We also use these storage facilities to
    reduce the need to contract for additional pipeline capacity to
    meet customer demand during peak periods.

In May 2006, APS announced plans to form a joint venture with a
    local natural gas producer to construct a natural gas gathering
    system in Eastern Kentucky. Referred to as the Straight Creek
    Project, the new system is expected to relieve severe gas
    gathering and transportation constraints that historically have
    burdened natural gas producers in the area and should improve
    delivery reliability to natural gas customers. In October 2006,
    the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued a
    declaratory order finding that the Straight Creek Project will
    be exempt from FERC jurisdiction. The joint venture provides APS
    the opportunity to apply its expertise to the upstream gathering
    business.

9

Table of Contents   

Other
    Nonutility Segment Overview  

Our other nonutility segment consists primarily of the
    operations of Atmos Energy Services, LLC (AES), and Atmos Power
    Systems, Inc. which are wholly-owned by our subsidiary, Atmos
    Energy Holdings, Inc. Through AES, we provide natural gas
    management services to our utility operations, other than the
    Mid-Tex Division. These services, which began in April 2004,
    include aggregating and purchasing gas supply, arranging
    transportation and storage logistics and ultimately delivering
    the gas to our utility service areas at competitive prices in
    exchange for revenues that are equal to the costs incurred to
    provide those services. Through Atmos Power Systems, Inc., we
    have constructed electric peaking power-generating plants and
    associated facilities and have entered into agreements to lease
    these plants.

Through January 2004, United Cities Propane Gas, Inc., a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of Atmos Energy Holdings, Inc., owned an
    approximate 19 percent membership interest in
    U.S. Propane L.P. (USP), a joint venture formed in February
    2000 with other utility companies to own a limited partnership
    interest in Heritage Propane Partners, L.P. (Heritage), a
    publicly-traded marketer of propane through a nationwide retail
    distribution network. During fiscal 2004, we sold our interest
    in USP and Heritage. As a result of these transactions, we no
    longer have an interest in the propane business.

10

Table of Contents   

Operating
    Statistics  

The following tables present certain operating statistics for
    our utility, natural gas marketing, pipeline and storage and
    other nonutility segments for each of the five fiscal years from
    2002 through 2006.

Utility
    Sales and Statistical Data   

See footnotes following these tables.

11

Table of Contents   

Utility
    Sales and Statistical Data By Division   

See footnotes following these tables.

12

Table of Contents   

See footnotes following these tables.

13

Table of Contents   

Natural
    Gas Marketing, Pipeline and Storage and Other Nonutility
    Operations Sales and Statistical Data   

Notes to preceding tables:

(1)  

The operational and statistical information includes the
    operations of the Mississippi Division since the
    December 3, 2002 acquisition date and the Mid-Tex and Atmos
    Pipeline   Texas Divisions since the October 1,
    2004 acquisition date. 

(2)  

A heating degree day is equivalent to each degree that the
    average of the high and the low temperatures for a day is below
    65 degrees. The colder the climate, the greater the number of
    heating degree days. Heating degree days are used in the natural
    gas industry to measure the relative coldness of weather and to
    compare relative temperatures between one geographic area and
    another. Normal degree days are based on
     30-year 
    average National Weather Service data for selected locations.
    For service areas that have weather normalized operations,
    normal degree days are used instead of actual degree days in
    computing the total number of heating degree days. 

(3)  

Sales volumes, revenues, operating margins, operating expense
    and operating income reflect segment operations, including
    intercompany sales and transportation amounts. 

(4)  

The Other column represents our utility shared services unit,
    which provides administrative and other support to our seven
    regulated utility divisions. Certain costs incurred by this unit
    are not allocated to our utility divisions. 

Ratemaking
    Activity  

Overview   

The method of determining regulated rates varies among the
    states in which our natural gas utility divisions operate. The
    regulators have the responsibility of ensuring that utilities
    under their jurisdictions operate in the best interests of
    customers while providing utility companies the opportunity to
    earn a reasonable return on investment. Generally, each
    regulatory authority reviews our rate request and establishes a
    rate structure intended to generate revenue sufficient to cover
    our costs of doing business and provide a reasonable return on
    invested capital.

Rates established by regulatory authorities are adjusted for
    increases and decreases in our purchased gas cost through
    purchased gas adjustment mechanisms. Purchased gas adjustment
    mechanisms provide gas utility companies a method of recovering
    purchased gas costs on an ongoing basis without filing a rate
    case to

14

Table of Contents   

address all of the utility s non-gas costs. These
    mechanisms are commonly utilized when regulatory authorities
    recognize a particular type of expense, such as purchased gas
    costs, that (i) is subject to significant price
    fluctuations compared to the utility s other costs,
    (ii) represents a large component of the utility s
    cost of service and (iii) is generally outside the control
    of the gas utility. There is no gross profit generated through
    purchased gas adjustments because they provide a
     dollar-for-dollar 
    offset to increases or decreases in utility gas costs. Although
    substantially all of our utility sales to our customers
    fluctuate with the cost of gas that we purchase, utility gross
    profit (which is defined as operating revenues less purchased
    gas cost) is generally not affected by fluctuations in the cost
    of gas due to the purchased gas adjustment mechanism.
    Additionally, some jurisdictions have introduced
    performance-based ratemaking adjustments to provide incentives
    to natural gas utilities to minimize purchased gas costs through
    improved storage management and use of financial hedges to lock
    in gas costs. Under the performance-based ratemaking adjustment,
    purchased gas costs savings are shared between the utility and
    its customers.

The following table summarizes some information regarding our
    ratemaking jurisdictions. This information is for regulatory
    purposes only and may not be representative of our actual
    financial position.

Jurisdictional
    Rate Summary   

See footnotes on the following page.

15

Table of Contents   

(1)  

The rate base and authorized rate of return presented in this
    table are the rate base and rate of return from the last base
    rate case for each jurisdiction. These rate bases and rates of
    return are not necessarily indicative of current or future rate
    bases or rates of return. 

(2)  

A rate base, rate of return, return on equity or debt/equity
    ratio was not included in the respective state commission s
    final decision. 

(3)  

The performance-based rate program provides incentives to
    natural gas utilities to minimize purchased gas costs by
    allowing the utility and its customers to share the purchased
    gas cost savings. 

(4)  

During 2006, our Louisiana and Mid-Tex Divisions received
    authorization to implement WNA beginning in the
     2006-2007 
    winter heating season. 

(5)  

The bad debt rider allows us to recover from ratepayers the gas
    cost portion of uncollectible accounts. 

Recent
    Ratemaking Activity   

Our current rate strategy focuses on seeking rate designs that
    reduce or eliminate regulatory lag and separate the recovery of
    our approved margins from customer usage patterns due to
    weather-related variability, declining use per customer and
    energy conservation, also known as decoupling. Additionally, we
    are seeking to stratify rates for low income households and to
    recover the gas cost portion of our bad debt expense.

Improving rate design is a long-term process. In the interim, we
    are addressing regulatory lag issues by directing discretionary
    capital spending to jurisdictions that permit us to recover our
    investment in a timely manner and filing rate cases on a more
    frequent basis to minimize the regulatory lag to keep our actual
    returns more closely aligned with our allowed returns.

16

Table of Contents   

Approximately 97 percent of our utility revenues in the
    fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were
    derived from sales at rates set by or subject to approval by
    local or state authorities. Net annual revenue increases
    resulting from ratemaking activity totaling $39.0 million,
    $6.3 million and $16.2 million became effective in
    fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 as summarized below:

(1)  

In 2003, the Texas Legislature approved the Gas Reliability
    Infrastructure Program (GRIP) which allows natural gas utilities
    the opportunity to include in their rate base annually approved
    capital costs incurred in the prior calendar year. Natural gas
    utilities that enter the program will be required to file a
    complete rate case at least once every five years. 

(2)  

A stable rate filing is a regulatory mechanism designed to allow
    us to refresh our rates on a periodic basis without filing a
    formal rate case. 

(3)  

The MPSC had formerly required that we file for rate adjustments
    every six months. Through May 2005, rate filings were made in
    May and November of each year and the rate adjustments typically
    became effective in June and December. See further discussion
    under the recent ratemaking activity for our Atmos Energy
    Mississippi Division below. 

Additionally, the following ratemaking efforts were initiated
    during fiscal 2006 but had not been completed as of
    September 30, 2006:

(1)  

The Louisiana Division has included the Rate Stabilization
    Clause increase in rates. The increase is subject to refund,
    pending final resolution of the Stable Rate Filing. 

(2)  

The Tennessee rate proceeding was settled in October 2006. See
    below for information regarding the settlement. 

17

Table of Contents   

Our recent ratemaking activity is discussed in greater detail
    below.

Atmos Pipeline-Texas.   In April 2006, Atmos
    Pipeline   Texas made a filing under Texas  Gas
    Reliability Infrastructure Program (GRIP) to include in rate
    base approximately $21.6 million of pipeline capital
    expenditures incurred during calendar year 2005, which should
    result in additional annual revenues of approximately
    $3.3 million. The RRC approved this filing in July 2006 and
    these new charges were included in the monthly customer charge
    beginning in August 2006.

In September 2005, Atmos Pipeline   Texas made a GRIP
    filing to include in rate base approximately $10.6 million
    of pipeline capital expenditures incurred during calendar year
    2004, which resulted in approximately $1.9 million in
    additional annual revenue. In December 2004, Atmos
    Pipeline   Texas made a GRIP filing to include in rate
    base approximately $12.0 million of pipeline capital
    expenditures made by TXU Gas during calendar year 2003, which
    resulted in additional annual revenues of approximately
    $1.8 million.

Atmos Energy Colorado-Kansas Division.   In
    December 2005, the Colorado-Kansas Division filed its second
    annual ad valorem tax surcharge for $1.6 million. The
    surcharge is designed to collect Kansas property taxes in excess
    of the amount in the Colorado-Kansas Division s most recent
    general rate case. We began to bill this surcharge in January
    2006.

In July 2004, the Colorado Public Utility Commission ordered us
    to issue a one-time credit to our Colorado customers of
    $1.9 million. The agreement was a result of an inquiry by
    the Colorado Office of Consumer Counsel related to our earnings
    in Colorado. The staff of the Colorado Public Utility Commission
    was also a party to the agreement.

In May 2003, the Colorado-Kansas Division filed a rate case with
    the Kansas Corporation Commission for approximately
    $7.4 million in additional annual revenues. In January
    2004, the Kansas Corporation Commission approved an agreement
    that allowed a $2.5 million increase in our rates effective
    March 2004. Additionally, the agreement allowed us to increase
    our monthly customer charges from $5 to $8, provided that we
    would not file another full rate application prior to September
    2005. WNA became effective in Kansas in October 2003 in
    accordance with the Kansas Corporation Commission s ruling
    in May 2003.

Atmos Energy Kentucky Division.   In February
    2006, the KPSC approved the Company s request to continue
    its Performance Based Ratemaking (PBR) mechanism for an
    additional five year period. The PBR establishes predetermined
    gas cost benchmarks and provides incentives to the Company for
    purchasing gas supply below those benchmark costs.

In February 2005, the Attorney General of the State of Kentucky
    filed a complaint with the Kentucky Public Service Commission
    (KPSC) alleging that our rates were producing revenues in excess
    of reasonable levels. We answered the complaint and filed a
    Motion to Dismiss with the KPSC. In February 2006, the KPSC
    issued an Order denying our Motion to Dismiss but stated that
    the Attorney General had not met his burden of proof concerning
    his complaint. In March 2006, the KPSC set a procedural schedule
    for the case. The Attorney General is currently conducting
    discovery. A hearing should be scheduled for early 2007. We
    believe that the Attorney General will not be able to
    demonstrate that our present rates are in excess of reasonable
    levels.

Atmos Energy Louisiana Division.   In September
    2005, the Louisiana Public Service Commission (LPSC)
    consolidated several then-existing dockets. These dockets
    included a separate proceeding for the renewal of the Rate
    Stabilization Clause (RSC) for each of the LGS and
    TransLa Gas service areas; resolution of the outstanding
    2003 RSC filing for the LGS service area; and our request for
    approval of a decoupling mechanism to stabilize margins in both
    the LGS and TransLa service areas.

On May 25, 2006, the LPSC voted to approve a settlement
    which included a modified WNA providing for partial decoupling,
    renewal of the RSC for both the LGS and TransLa service
    areas with provisions that will reduce regulatory lag and a
    refund to customers of approximately $0.4 million for the
    LGS service areas that previously had been deferred. The first
    RSC filing was in August 2006 for approximately
    $10.8 million, based on a test year ended December 31,
    2005, for the LGS service area. The increase is subject to
    refund, pending final approval by the LPSC. The first filing for
    the TransLa service area will be made by

18

Table of Contents   

December 31, 2006, for the test period ending
    September 30, 2006, with an effective rate adjustment of
    April 1, 2007. WNA for both service areas will be in effect
    for an initial three-year period beginning with the winter of
     2006-2007. 
    In the third quarter of fiscal 2006, $6.2 million in
    deferred revenue associated with the 2003 RSC rate adjustment
    was recognized.

On August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf
    Coast, inflicting significant damage to our eastern Louisiana
    operations. The hardest hit areas in our service territory were
    in Jefferson, St. Tammany, St. Bernard and Plaquemines parishes.
    Although service has been restored for many of our customers, a
    significant number of customers will not require gas service for
    some time, if ever, because of sustained damages. We began
    implementing new rates, subject to refund, in September 2006
    that reflected the reduction of approximately 26,500 customers
    and included a request to recover costs attributable to
    Hurricane Katrina. We cannot accurately determine what
    regulatory actions, if any, may be taken by the regulators with
    respect to this filing or our ability to fully recover all costs
    incurred as a result of the storm.

During the second quarter of 2005, the Louisiana Division
    implemented a rate increase of $3.3 million in its LGS
    service area. This increase resulted from our RSC filing in 2004
    and was subject to refund, pending the final resolution of that
    filing. As the rate increase was subject to refund, we did not
    recognize the effects of this increase in our results of
    operations during fiscal 2005 or the first three quarters of
    fiscal 2006.

During fiscal 2004, the Louisiana Public Service Commission
    approved tariff revisions for our LGS service area totaling
    $0.2 million that became effective in October 2004.

In October 2002, Atmos received written notification from the
    Executive Secretary of the LPSC asserting that a monthly
    facilities fee of approximately $0.6 million charged since
    July 2001 to Atmos by Trans Louisiana Gas Pipeline, Inc., a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of Atmos, pursuant to a contract between
    the parties, was excessive. The Executive Secretary asserted
    that all monthly facilities fees in excess of approximately
    $0.1 million from July 2001 should be refunded to
    ratepayers with interest. In October 2003, the LPSC unanimously
    voted to approve an agreement to allow us to charge a facilities
    fee of approximately $0.5 million per month (subject to
    future escalation) beginning November 2003 for a period of
    14 years. No retroactive adjustments were required under
    this agreement.

Atmos Energy Mid-States Division.   In April
    2006, Atmos filed a rate case in its Missouri service area
    seeking a rate increase of $3.4 million. The Company is
    proposing to consolidate the rates for its Missouri properties
    into three sets of regional rates and consolidate the current
    purchased gas adjustment (PGA) into one statewide PGA. The
    Company is also proposing a WNA mechanism. An evidentiary
    hearing is scheduled to begin on November 27, 2006, with an
    order expected to be issued in February 2007.

In March 2006, we received notification from the Tennessee
    Regulatory Authority (TRA) that it disagreed with the way we
    calculated amounts under its performance-based rate mechanism,
    which resulted in a one-time $3.3 million income reduction
    during the second quarter of fiscal 2006. We believe the
    original calculations were correct and have appealed the
    TRA s decision.

During the third quarter of fiscal 2005, Atmos filed a rate case
    in its Georgia service area seeking a rate increase of
    $4.0 million. In December 2005, the Georgia Public Service
    Commission (GPSC) approved a $0.4 million increase. In
    January 2006, we filed an appeal of the GPSC s decision in
    the Superior Court of Fulton County. Oral arguments were held on
    September 7, 2006 before the Fulton County Superior Court.
    The court affirmed the commission s order. We are
    considering further appeal.

In November 2005, we received a notice from the TRA that it was
    opening an investigation into allegations by the Consumer
    Advocate and Protection Division of the Tennessee Attorney
    General s Office that we were overcharging customers in
    parts of Tennessee by approximately $10 million per year.
    We responded to numerous data requests from the TRA Staff. In
    April 2006, the TRA Staff filed a Report and Recommendation in
    which it recommended that the TRA convene a contested case
    procedure for the purpose of establishing a fair and reasonable
    return. The TRA convened to consider the Staff s
    recommendation on May 15, 2006 and set a procedural
    schedule. A hearing was held from August 29, 2006 through
    August 31, 2006. Of the $10 million rate reduction
    requested by the Consumer Advocate and Protection Division, the
    TRA approved on October 27, 2006 a $6.1 million
    reduction to future rates.

19

Table of Contents   

In February 2004, the Mid-States Division filed a rate case with
    the Virginia Corporation Commission (VCC) to request a
    $1.0 million increase in our base rates, WNA and recovery
    of the gas cost component of bad debt expense. The VCC granted a
    rate increase in November 2004 of $0.4 million that was
    retroactively effective to July 27, 2004. Additionally, the
    VCC authorized WNA beginning in July 2005 and the ability to
    recover the gas cost component of bad debt expense.

Atmos Energy Mid-Tex Division.   The following
    is a discussion of our recent ratemaking activity for our
    Mid-Tex Division.

Rate
    Case  

During fiscal 2006, we received  show cause 
    resolutions from approximately 80 cities served by our
    Mid-Tex Division, including the City of Dallas, which require us
    to demonstrate that existing distribution rates in the Mid-Tex
    Division are just and reasonable. In May 2006, in response to
    these resolutions, we filed a Statement of Intent to increase
    rates on a division-wide basis. By agreement with the cities,
    the  show cause  resolutions were consolidated and
    became part of the Mid-Tex Division s first rate case
    before the RRC since we acquired the TXU Gas operations in
    October 2004. In this rate proceeding, we are seeking
    incremental annual revenues in the Mid-Tex Division of
    approximately $60 million and several rate design changes,
    including WNA, revenue stabilization and recovery of the gas
    cost component of bad debt expense.

In exchange for an agreement to provide the intervening parties
    in the proceeding additional time to prepare for the hearing, we
    obtained agreement from the intervenors to implement WNA in the
    rates for the Mid-Tex Division for the 2006-2007 winter season,
    which has been approved by the RRC, and to implement WNA in the
    final rates in this proceeding. The hearing in this proceeding
    was concluded on November 17, 2006, and a decision is due
    from the RRC no later than April 2007. During the hearing, the
    principal issues raised by the cities included the Mid-Tex
    Division s rate of return, the reduction of rate base for
    the accumulated deferred federal income taxes and investment tax
    credits associated with the TXU Gas operations prior to our
    acquisition, the methodology used by us to allocate certain
    shared services expenses to the division, and the inclusion of
    certain items in operation and maintenance expenses.

In addition, under applicable statutes, the RRC is reviewing the
    interim rate adjustments that were previously granted in
    response to the Mid-Tex Division s prior GRIP filings and
    our acquisition of the TXU Gas operations for consistency with
    the public interest. Any increase that the RRC may grant in this
    case would be effective prospectively from the date of the final
    order. However, any decrease that may be ordered by the RRC
    would be effective from May 31, 2006 pursuant to the
    agreement with the intervenors for consolidation of the show
    cause resolutions and the Statement of Intent filing. Any
    disallowance related to the previously granted GRIP interim rate
    adjustments would be refunded to customers with interest
    beginning some time after the issuance of a final order in this
    proceeding.

While the decision of the RRC in this case cannot be predicted
    with certainty, we believe that we have adequately demonstrated
    to the RRC that the Mid-Tex Division is entitled to receive an
    increase in annual revenues and that the remaining rate design
    changes should be implemented.

GRIP
    Filings  

In March 2006, the Mid-Tex Division made a GRIP filing to
    include in rate base approximately $62.2 million of
    distribution capital expenditures incurred during calendar year
    2005, which we estimate would result in additional annual
    revenues of approximately $11.9 million. The RRC approved
    this filing in August 2006, and the new customer charges were
    implemented in September 2006 billings to customers.

In September 2005, the Mid-Tex Division made a GRIP filing to
    include in rate base approximately $29.4 million of
    distribution capital expenditures incurred during calendar year
    2004, which currently provides additional annual revenues of
    approximately $6.7 million. The RRC approved this filing in
    January 2006, and these new charges were included in the monthly
    customer charge beginning in February 2006.

In December 2004, the Mid-Tex Division made a GRIP filing to
    include in rate base approximately $32.0 million of
    distribution capital expenditures made by TXU Gas during
    calendar year 2003, which

20

Table of Contents   

currently provides additional annual revenues of approximately
    $6.7 million. New monthly customer charges were implemented
    in October 2005.

Other
    Regulatory Matters  

In September 2006, the Mid-Tex Division filed its annual gas
    cost reconciliation with the RRC. The filing reflects
    approximately $24 million in refunds of amounts that were
    overcollected from customers between July 2005 and June 2006.
    The Mid-Tex Division has requested and received approval to
    refund these amounts over a six-month period beginning in
    November 2006.

In September 2004, the Mid-Tex Division filed its
     36-Month  Gas
    Contract Review with the RRC. This proceeding involves a review
    for reasonableness of gas purchases totaling $2.2 billion
    made by the Mid-Tex Division from November 2000 through October
    2003. A hearing on this matter was held before the RRC in June
    2005. The parties negotiated a unanimous settlement agreement
    providing for a refund of $8 million to customers over a
    three-year period and for reimbursement of parties 
    expenses without recovery from customers. The RRC approved the
    settlement on September 12, 2006. Refunds to customers
    began in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007.

The Mid-Tex Division is also pursuing an appeal to the Travis
    County District Court of the Final Order in its last system-wide
    rate case completed in May 2004 to obtain a return of and on its
    investment associated with the Poly I replacement pipe that was
    originally disallowed in its rate case completed in May 2004.
    The case was argued before the Travis County District Court in
    July 2006. The Court ruled to uphold the Commission s final
    order. Steps are being taken to perfect an appeal to the Court
    of Appeals in Travis County.

Atmos Energy Mississippi Division.   Through the
    first quarter of fiscal 2005, the MPSC required that we file for
    rate adjustments every six months. Rate filings were made in May
    and November of each year and the rate adjustments typically
    became effective in the following July and January.

During the second quarter of fiscal 2005, we agreed with the
    MPSC to suspend our May 2005 semi-annual filing to allow
    sufficient time for us and the MPSC to undertake a comprehensive
    review in an effort to improve our rate design and the
    ratemaking process. Effective October 2005, our rate design was
    modified to substitute the original agreed-upon benchmark with a
    sharing mechanism to allow the sharing of cost savings above an
    allowed return on equity level. Further, we moved from a
    semi-annual filing process to an annual filing process.
    Additionally, our WNA period begins on November 1 instead
    of November 15, and ends on April 30 instead of
    May 15. Also, we now have a fixed monthly customer base
    charge which makes a portion of our earnings less susceptible to
    usage. As part of the rate design restructuring, we agreed to
    reduce our rates by approximately $0.6 million. We made our
    first annual filing under this new structure in September 2006
    requesting no change in rates.

In September 2004, the MPSC originally disallowed certain
    deferred costs totaling $2.8 million. In connection with
    the modification of our rate design described above, the MPSC
    decided to allow these costs, and we included these costs in our
    rates in October 2005.

In June 2006, the MPSC approved a pilot program whereby Trans
    Louisiana Gas Pipeline (TLGP) will provide asset management
    services to the Mississippi Division. The asset management
    program allows TLGP to market certain off-peak gas supply
    assets, such as company-owned or leased storage and pipeline
    capacity, on a recallable basis. In return, TLGP will share net
    positive benefits of the asset management program with
    Mississippi ratepayers. The pilot program runs from June 1,
    2006 to April 30, 2007 and may be extended by the MPSC upon
    application by Atmos.

In October 2003, the MPSC issued a final order that denied our
    May 2003 request for a rate increase of $5.8 million. In
    January 2004, the MPSC authorized additional annual revenue of
    $5.9 million on our November 2003 filing, which became
    effective in December 2003. In September 2004, the MPSC
    authorized additional annualized revenue of $4.7 million on
    our May 2004 filing, which became effective in June 2004.

We filed our second semiannual filing for 2004 in November 2004,
    requesting rate adjustments of $6.0 million in annualized
    revenue. The MPSC allowed us to include $3.0 million in
    annualized revenue in

21

Table of Contents   

our rates effective January 2005. In February 2005, we entered
    into an agreement with the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff
    that provides for an additional $1.3 million in annualized
    revenue that was retroactive to January 2005, which was approved
    by the MPSC during the second quarter of fiscal 2005.

Atmos Energy West Texas Division.   In September
    2005, the West Texas Division made a GRIP filing to include in
    rate base approximately $22.6 million of distribution
    capital costs incurred during calendar year 2004, which should
    result in additional annual revenues of approximately
    $3.8 million. Of this amount, approximately
    $1.3 million related to our Lubbock jurisdiction and the
    remaining $2.5 million related to our West Texas
    jurisdiction. New charges for the filings were included in the
    monthly customer charge beginning May 2006. Atmos made its 2005
    GRIP filings for the West Texas Division and the Lubbock
    Division in September 2006 requesting no change in rates.

In January 2006, the Lubbock, Texas City Council passed a
    resolution requiring Atmos to submit copies of all documentation
    necessary for the city to review the rates of Atmos  West
    Texas Division to ensure they are just and reasonable. The
    requested information was provided to the city on
    February 28, 2006. We believe that we will be able to
    ultimately demonstrate to the City of Lubbock that our rates are
    just and reasonable.

In May 2006, Atmos began receiving  show cause 
    ordinances from several of the cities in the West Texas
    Division. We made a filing in response to the ordinances on
    October 2, 2006. We believe that we will be able to
    ultimately demonstrate to the West Texas cities that our rates
    are just and reasonable.

In October 2003, our West Texas Division filed a rate case in
    Lubbock requesting a $3.0 million increase in annual
    revenues and WNA for our residential, commercial and
    public-authority customers. The City of Lubbock approved a
    $1.5 million increase effective March 2004, as well as the
    proposed WNA.

In September 2003, our West Texas Division filed a rate case in
    its West Texas System to request a $7.7 million increase in
    annual revenues and WNA for its residential, commercial and
    public-authority customers. In May 2004, the 66 cities in
    its West Texas System approved an increase of $3.2 million
    in our annual utility revenues. The cities also approved a WNA
    rider for residential, commercial, public-authority and
    state-institution customers. This rider became effective in
    October 2004.

Other
    Regulation  

Each of our utility divisions is regulated by various state or
    local public utility authorities. We are also subject to
    regulation by the United States Department of Transportation
    with respect to safety requirements in the operation and
    maintenance of our gas distribution facilities. Our distribution
    operations are also subject to various state and federal laws
    regulating environmental matters. From time to time we receive
    inquiries regarding various environmental matters. We believe
    that our properties and operations substantially comply with and
    are operated in substantial conformity with applicable safety
    and environmental statutes and regulations. There are no
    administrative or judicial proceedings arising under
    environmental quality statutes pending or known to be
    contemplated by governmental agencies which would have a
    material adverse effect on us or our operations. Our
    environmental claims have arisen primarily from former
    manufactured gas plant sites in Tennessee, Iowa and Missouri.
    These claims are fully described in Note 13 to the
    consolidated financial statements.

FERC allows, pursuant to Section 311 of the Natural Gas
    Policy Act, gas transportation services through our Atmos
    Pipeline   Texas assets  on behalf of 
    interstate pipelines or local distribution companies served by
    interstate pipelines, without subjecting these assets to the
    jurisdiction of the FERC.

Competition  

Although our utility operations are not currently in significant
    direct competition with any other distributors of natural gas to
    residential and commercial customers within our service areas,
    we do compete with other natural gas suppliers and suppliers of
    alternative fuels for sales to industrial and agricultural
    customers. We compete in all aspects of our business with
    alternative energy sources, including, in particular,
    electricity. Electric utilities offer electricity as a rival
    energy source and compete for the space heating, water heating
    and cooking markets. Promotional incentives, improved equipment
    efficiencies and promotional rates all contribute to the
    acceptability of electrical equipment. The principal means to
    compete against alternative fuels is lower prices,

22

Table of Contents   

and natural gas historically has maintained its price advantage
    in the residential, commercial and industrial markets. However,
    higher gas prices, coupled with the electric utilities 
    marketing efforts, have increased competition for residential
    and commercial customers. In addition, our Natural Gas Marketing
    segment competes with other natural gas brokers in obtaining
    natural gas supplies for our customers.

Employees  

At September 30, 2006, we had 4,632 employees, consisting
    of 4,402 employees in our utility segment and 230 employees in
    our other segments. See  Operating Statistics  
    Utility Sales and Statistical Data by Division  for the
    number of employees by division.

Available
    Information  

Our Annual Reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Current Reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and other reports, and amendments to those reports, that we file
    with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
    are available free of charge at our website,
     www.atmosenergy.com , as soon as reasonably practicable,
    after we electronically file these reports with, or furnish
    these reports to, the SEC. We will also provide copies of these
    reports free of charge upon request to Shareholder Relations at
    the address appearing below:

Shareholder Relations

Atmos Energy Corporation

P.O. Box 650205

Dallas, Texas
     75265-0205 

972-855-3729

Corporate
    Governance  

In accordance with and pursuant to relevant provisions of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related rules and regulations of the
    Securities and Exchange Commission as well as corporate
    governance-related listing standards of the New York Stock
    Exchange, the Board of Directors of the Company has adopted the
    Company s Corporate Governance Guidelines and revised the
    Company s Code of Conduct, which is applicable to all
    directors, officers and employees of the Company. In addition,
    the Board of Directors has updated the charters for each of its
    Audit, Human Resources and Nominating and Corporate Governance
    Committees. All of the foregoing documents are posted on the
    Corporate Governance page of the Company s website. We will
    also provide copies of such information free of charge upon
    request to Shareholder Relations at the address listed above.

ITEM 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

Our financial and operating results are subject to a number of
    factors, many of which are not within our control. Although we
    have tried to discuss key risk factors below, please be aware
    that other risks may prove to be important in the future. These
    factors include the following:

We are
    subject to regulation by each state in which we operate that
    affect our operations and financial results.   

Our natural gas utility business is subject to various regulated
    returns on its rate base in each of the 12 states in which
    we operate. We monitor the allowed rates of return and our
    effectiveness in earning such rates and initiate rate
    proceedings or operating changes as we believe are needed. In
    addition, in the normal course of the regulatory environment,
    assets may be placed in service and historical test periods
    established before rate cases that could adjust our returns can
    be filed. Once rate cases are filed, regulatory bodies have the
    authority to suspend implementation of the new rates while
    studying the cases. Because of this process, we must suffer the
    negative financial effects of having placed assets in service
    without the benefit of rate relief, which is commonly referred
    to as  regulatory lag . In addition, rate cases
    involve a risk of rate reduction, and once rates have been
    approved, they are still subject to challenge for their
    reasonableness by appropriate

23

Table of Contents   

regulatory authorities. Our debt and equity financings are also
    subject to approval by regulatory bodies in several states which
    could limit our ability to take advantage of favorable market
    conditions.

Our business could also be affected by deregulation initiatives,
    including the development of unbundling initiatives in the
    natural gas industry. Unbundling is the separation of the
    provision and pricing of local distribution gas services into
    discrete components. It typically focuses on the separation of
    the distribution and gas supply components and the resulting
    opening of the regulated components of sales services to
    alternative unregulated suppliers of those services. Although we
    believe that our enhanced technology and distribution system
    infrastructures have positively positioned us, we cannot provide
    assurance that there would be no significant adverse effect on
    our business should unbundling or further deregulation of the
    natural gas distribution service business occur.

Our
    operations are weather sensitive.   

Our natural gas utility sales volumes and related revenues are
    correlated with heating requirements that result from cold
    winter weather. Although beginning in the 2006-2007 winter
    heating season, we will have weather-normalized rates for over
    90 percent of our residential and commercial meters that
    should substantially eliminate the adverse effects of
    warmer-than-normal weather for meters in those service areas,
    our utility operating results will continue to vary with the
    temperatures during the winter heating season. In addition,
    sustained cold weather could adversely affect our natural gas
    marketing operations as we may be required to purchase gas at
    spot rates in a rising market to obtain sufficient volumes to
    fulfill some customer contracts.

The
    concentration of our distribution, pipeline and storage
    operations in the State of Texas have increased the exposure of
    our operations and financial results to adverse weather,
    economic conditions or regulatory decisions in
    Texas.   

As a result of our acquisition of the distribution, pipeline and
    storage operations of TXU Gas in October 2004, over 50 percent
    of our natural gas distribution customers and most of our
    pipeline and storage assets and operations are now located in
    the State of Texas. This concentration of our business in Texas
    means that our operations and financial results are subject to
    greater impact than before from changes in the Texas economy in
    general as well as the weather in our service areas of the state
    during the winter heating season. Our financial results in
    fiscal 2006 were adversely affected by warm weather in Texas. In
    addition, the impact of any adverse rate or other regulatory
    decisions by state or local regulatory authorities in Texas will
    also be greater. The hearing in the Mid-Tex Division s
    first rate case since the TXU Gas acquisition has just
    concluded. In the proceeding, we are seeking additional revenue
    and several rate design changes. A rate reduction or other
    significant, adverse decision by the Texas Railroad Commission
    in the proceeding could materially affect our financial results.

We are
    subject to environmental regulation which could adversely affect
    our operations or financial results.   

We are subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements
    enacted or adopted by federal, state and local governmental
    authorities relating to protection of the environment and health
    and safety matters, including those legal requirements that
    govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the
    management and disposal of hazardous substances and waste, the
     clean-up  of
    contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant
    and wildlife protection, as well as work practices related to
    employee health and safety. Environmental legislation also
    requires that our facilities, sites and other properties
    associated with our operations be operated, maintained,
    abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable
    regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with these laws,
    regulations, permits and licenses may expose us to fines,
    penalties or interruptions in our operations that could be
    significant to our financial results. In addition, existing
    environmental regulations may be revised or our operations may
    become subject to new regulations. Such revised or new
    regulations could result in increased compliance costs or
    additional operating restrictions which could adversely affect
    our business, financial condition and results of operations.

24

Table of Contents   

Our
    operations are exposed to market risks that are beyond our
    control which could adversely affect our financial
    results.   

Our risk management operations are subject to market risks
    beyond our control including market liquidity, commodity price
    volatility and counterparty creditworthiness.

Although we maintain a risk management policy, we may not be
    able to completely offset the price risk associated with
    volatile gas prices or the risk in our natural gas marketing and
    pipeline and storage segments which could lead to volatility in
    our earnings. Physical trading also introduces price risk on any
    net open positions at the end of each trading day, as well as
    volatility resulting from intra-day fluctuations of gas prices
    and the potential for daily price movements between the time
    natural gas is purchased or sold for future delivery and the
    time the related purchase or sale is hedged. Although we manage
    our business to maintain no open positions, there are times when
    limited net open positions related to our physical storage may
    occur on a short-term basis. The determination of our net open
    position as of any day requires us to make assumptions as to
    future circumstances, including the use of gas by our customers
    in relation to our anticipated storage and market positions.
    Because the price risk associated with any net open position at
    the end of each day may increase if the assumptions are not
    realized, we review these assumptions as part of our daily
    monitoring activities. Net open positions may increase
    volatility in our financial condition or results of operations
    if market prices move in a significantly favorable or
    unfavorable manner because the timing of the recognition of
    profits or losses on the hedges for financial accounting
    purposes does not always match up with the timing of the
    economic profits or losses on the item being hedged. This
    volatility may occur with a resulting increase or decrease in
    earnings or losses, even though the expected profit margin is
    essentially unchanged from the date the transactions were
    consummated. Further, if the local physical markets in which we
    trade do not move consistently with the NYMEX futures market, we
    could experience increased volatility in the financial results
    of our natural gas marketing and pipeline and storage segments.

Our natural gas marketing and pipeline and storage segments
    manage margins and limit risk exposure on the sale of natural
    gas inventory or the offsetting fixed-price purchase or sale
    commitments for physical quantities of natural gas through the
    use of a variety of financial derivatives. However, contractual
    limitations could adversely affect our ability to withdraw gas
    from storage which could cause us to purchase gas at spot prices
    in a rising market to obtain sufficient volumes to fulfill
    customer contracts. We could also realize financial losses on
    our efforts to limit risk as a result of volatility in the
    market prices of the underlying commodities or if a counterparty
    fails to perform under a contract. In addition, adverse changes
    in the creditworthiness of our counterparties could limit the
    level of trading activities with these parties and increase the
    risk that these parties may not perform under a contract.

We are also subject to interest rate risk on our commercial
    paper borrowings and floating rate debt. In the past few years,
    we have been operating in a relatively low interest-rate
    environment with both short and long-term interest rates being
    relatively low compared to past interest rates. However, in the
    past two years, the Federal Reserve has taken actions that have
    resulted in increases in short-term interest rates. Future
    increases in interest rates could adversely affect our future
    financial results.

The
    execution of our business plan could be affected by an inability
    to access financial markets.   

We rely upon access to both short-term and long-term capital
    markets to satisfy our liquidity requirements. Adverse changes
    in the economy or these markets, the overall health of the
    industries in which we operate and changes to our credit ratings
    could limit access to these markets, increase our cost of
    capital or restrict the execution of our business plan.

Our long-term debt is currently rated as  investment
    grade  by Standard & Poor s Corporation
    (S&P), Moody s Investors Services, Inc. (Moody s)
    and Fitch Ratings, Ltd. (Fitch), the three credit rating
    agencies that rate our long-term debt securities. There can be
    no assurance that these rating agencies will maintain investment
    grade ratings for our long-term debt. If we were to lose our
    investment-grade rating, the commercial paper markets and the
    commodity derivatives markets could become unavailable to us.
    This would increase our borrowing costs for working capital and
    reduce the borrowing capacity of our gas marketing affiliate. In
    addition, if our commercial paper ratings were lowered, it would
    increase the cost of commercial

25

Table of Contents   

paper financing and could reduce or eliminate our ability to
    access the commercial paper markets. If we are unable to issue
    commercial paper, we intend to borrow under our bank credit
    facilities to meet our working capital needs. This would
    increase the cost of our working capital financing.

Inflation
    and increased gas costs could adversely impact our customer base
    and customer collections and increase our level of
    indebtedness.   

Inflation has caused increases in some of our operating expenses
    and has required assets to be replaced at higher costs. We have
    a process in place to continually review the adequacy of our
    utility gas rates in relation to the increasing cost of
    providing service and the inherent regulatory lag in adjusting
    those gas rates. Historically, we have been able to budget and
    control operating expenses and investments within the amounts
    authorized to be collected in rates and intend to continue to do
    so. However, the ability to control expenses is an important
    factor that could influence future results.

Rapid increases in the price of purchased gas, which occurred
    recently and in some prior years, cause us to experience a
    significant increase in short-term debt because we must pay
    suppliers for gas when it is purchased, which can be
    significantly in advance of when these costs may be recovered
    through the collection of monthly customer bills for gas
    delivered. Increases in purchased gas costs also slow our
    utility collection efforts as customers are more likely to delay
    the payment of their gas bills, leading to higher than normal
    accounts receivable. This could result in higher short-term debt
    levels, greater collection efforts and increased bad debt
    expense.

Our
    operations are subject to increased competition.   

In the residential and commercial customer markets, our
    regulated utility operations compete with other energy products,
    such as electricity and propane. Our primary product competition
    is with electricity for heating, water heating and cooking.
    Increases in the price of natural gas could negatively impact
    our competitive position by decreasing the price benefits of
    natural gas to the consumer. This could adversely impact our
    business if as a result, our customer growth slows, resulting in
    reduced ability to make capital expenditures, or if our
    customers further conserve their use of gas, resulting in
    reduced gas purchases and customer billings.

In the case of industrial customers, such as manufacturing
    plants, and agricultural customers, adverse economic conditions,
    including higher gas costs, could cause these customers to use
    alternative sources of energy, such as electricity, or bypass
    our systems in favor of special competitive contracts with lower
    per-unit costs. Our pipeline and storage operations currently
    face limited competition from other existing intrastate
    pipelines and gas marketers seeking to provide or arrange
    transportation, storage and other services for customers.
    However, competition may increase if new intrastate pipelines
    are constructed near our existing facilities.

The
    cost of providing pension and postretirement health care
    benefits is subject to changes in pension fund values and
    changing demographics and may have a material adverse effect on
    our financial results.   

We provide a cash-balance pension plan for the benefit of
    eligible full-time employees as well as postretirement health
    care benefits to eligible full-time employees. Our costs of
    providing such benefits is subject to changes in the market
    value of our pension fund assets, changing demographics,
    including longer life expectancy of beneficiaries and an
    expected increase in the number of eligible former employees
    over the next five to ten years, and various actuarial
    calculations and assumptions. The actuarial assumptions used may
    differ materially from actual results due to changing market and
    economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates and other
    factors. These differences may result in a significant impact on
    the amount of pension expense or other postretirement benefit
    costs recorded in future periods.

26

Table of Contents   

Our
    growth in the future may be limited by the nature of our
    business, which requires extensive capital
    spending.   

We must continually build additional capacity in our natural gas
    distribution system to maintain the growth in the number of our
    customers. The cost of adding this capacity may be affected by a
    number of factors, including the general state of the economy
    and weather. Our cash flows from operations are generally not
    sufficient to supply funding for all our capital expenditures
    including the financing of the costs of this new construction
    along with capital expenditures necessary to maintain our
    existing natural gas system. As a result, we must fund at least
    a portion of these costs through borrowing funds from third
    party lenders, the cost of which is dependent on the interest
    rates at the time. This in turn may limit our ability to connect
    new customers to our system due to constraints on the amount of
    funds we can invest in our infrastructure.

Distributing
    and storing natural gas involve risks that may result in
    accidents and additional operating costs.   

Our natural gas distribution business involves a number of
    hazards and operating risks that cannot be completely avoided,
    such as leaks, accidents and operational problems, which could
    cause loss of human life, as well as substantial financial
    losses resulting from property damage, damage to the environment
    and to our operations. We do have liability and property
    insurance coverage in place for many of these hazards and risks.
    However, because our pipeline, storage and distribution
    facilities are near or are in populated areas, any loss of human
    life or adverse financial results resulting from such events
    could be large. If these events were not fully covered by
    insurance, our financial position and results of operations
    could be adversely affected.

Natural
    disasters and terrorist activities and other actions could
    adversely affect our operations or financial
    results.   

Natural disasters are always a threat to our assets and
    operations. In addition, the threat of terrorist activities
    could lead to increased economic instability and volatility in
    the price of natural gas that could affect our operations. Also,
    companies in our industry may face a heightened risk of exposure
    to actual acts of terrorism, which could subject our operations
    to increased risks. As a result, the availability of insurance
    covering such risks may be more limited, which could increase
    the risk that an event could adversely affect future financial
    results.

ITEM 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

Not applicable.

ITEM 2.      

Properties   

Distribution,
    transmission and related assets  

At September 30, 2006, our utility segment owned an
    aggregate of 75,869 miles of underground distribution and
    transmission mains throughout our gas distribution systems.
    These mains are located on easements or
     rights-of-way 
    which generally provide for perpetual use. We maintain our mains
    through a program of continuous inspection and repair and
    believe that our system of mains is in good condition. At
    September 30, 2006, our pipeline and storage segment owned
    6,127 miles of gas transmission and gathering lines.

Our utility segment also holds franchises granted by the
    incorporated cities and towns that we serve. At
    September 30, 2006, we held 1,103 franchises having terms
    generally ranging from five to 35 years. A significant
    number of our franchises expire each year, which require renewal
    prior to the end of their terms. We believe that we will be able
    to renew our franchises as they expire.

27

Table of Contents   

Storage
    Assets  

Our utility and pipeline and storage segments own underground
    gas storage facilities in several states to supplement the
    supply of natural gas in periods of peak demand. The following
    table summarizes certain information regarding our underground
    gas storage facilities:

(1)  

Cushion gas represents the volume of gas that must be retained
    in a facility to maintain reservoir pressure. 

28

Table of Contents   

Additionally, we contract for storage service in underground
    storage facilities on many of the interstate pipelines serving
    us to supplement our proprietary storage capacity. The following
    table summarizes our contracted storage capacity:

29

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Maximum daily withdrawal quantity (MDWQ) amounts will fluctuate
    depending upon the season and the month. Unless otherwise noted,
    MDWQ amounts represent the MDWQ amounts as of November 1,
    which is the beginning of the winter heating season. 

(2)  

We contract for storage service in two underground storage
    facilities, Wiseman and Ellis, from this company. 

Other
    facilities  

Our utility segment owns and operates one propane peak shaving
    plant with a total capacity of approximately 180,000 gallons
    that can produce an equivalent of approximately 3,300 Mcf
    daily.

Offices  

Our administrative offices are consolidated in a leased facility
    in Dallas, Texas. We also maintain field offices throughout our
    distribution system, the majority of which are located in leased
    facilities. Our nonutility operations are headquartered in
    Houston, Texas, with offices in Houston and other locations,
    primarily in leased facilities.

ITEM 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 4.      

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during
    the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.

30

Table of Contents   

EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

The following table sets forth certain information as of
    September 30, 2006, regarding the executive officers of the
    Company. It is followed by a brief description of the business
    experience of each executive officer.

Years of 

Name 

Age 

Service 

Office Currently Held 

Robert W. Best

59

9

Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer

Kim R. Cocklin

55

Senior Vice President, Utility
    Operations

R. Earl Fischer

67

44

Senior Vice President, Utility
    Operations

Louis P. Gregory

51

6

Senior Vice President and General
    Counsel

Mark H. Johnson

47

5

Senior Vice President, Nonutility
    Operations and President, Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC

Wynn D. McGregor

53

18

Senior Vice President, Human
    Resources

John P. Reddy

53

8

Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer

Robert W. Best was named Chairman of the Board, President and
    Chief Executive Officer in March 1997.

Kim R. Cocklin joined the Company in June 2006 as Senior Vice
    President, Utility Operations to succeed R. Earl Fischer, who
    retired from the Company on September 30, 2006. Prior to
    joining the Company, Mr. Cocklin served as Senior Vice
    President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer of
    Piedmont Natural Gas Company from February 2003 to May 2006.
    Prior to joining Piedmont, Mr. Cocklin was with Williams
    Gas Pipeline from 1995 to January 2003, where he served in
    various capacities, including serving as Vice President for
    rates, regulatory and business development for all of the
    Williams Gas pipelines from 2001 to January 2003.

R. Earl Fischer was named Senior Vice President, Utility
    Operations in May 2000. Mr. Fischer previously served the
    Company as President of the Mid-Tex Division from October 2004
    to October 2005. Mr. Fischer retired from the Company on
    September 30, 2006.

Louis P. Gregory was named Senior Vice President and General
    Counsel in September 2000.

Mark H. Johnson was named Senior Vice President, Nonutility
    Operations in April 2006 and President of Atmos Energy Holdings,
    Inc., and Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC, in April 2005.
    Mr. Johnson previously served the Company as Vice
    President, Nonutility Operations from October 2005 to March 2006
    and as Executive Vice President of Atmos Energy Marketing from
    October 2003 to March 2005. Mr. Johnson joined Atmos Energy
    Marketing s predecessor, Woodward Marketing, L.L.C., in
    1992 as Vice President of Marketing and Operations and was later
    promoted to Senior Vice President of Marketing for the Midwest
    and Gulf Coast. Mr. Johnson succeeded JD Woodward III
    who retired from the Company effective April 1, 2006.

Wynn D. McGregor was named Senior Vice President, Human
    Resources in October 2005. He previously served the Company as
    Vice President, Human Resources from January 1994 to September
    2005.

John P. Reddy was named Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer in September 2000.

31

Table of Contents   

PART II  

ITEM 5.      

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

Our stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the
    trading symbol  ATO.  The high and low sale prices and
    dividends paid per share of our common stock for fiscal 2006 and
    2005 are listed below. The high and low prices listed are the
    closing NYSE quotes for shares of our common stock:

Dividends are payable at the discretion of our Board of
    Directors out of legally available funds and are also subject to
    restriction under the terms of our First Mortgage Bond
    agreement. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial
    statements. The Board of Directors typically declares dividends
    in the same fiscal quarter in which they are paid. The number of
    record holders of our common stock on October 31, 2006 was
    24,425. Future payments of dividends, and the amounts of these
    dividends, will depend on our financial condition, results of
    operations, capital requirements and other factors. We sold no
    securities during fiscal 2006 that were not registered under the
    Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

The following table sets forth the number of securities
    authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans at
    September 30, 2006.

32

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6.      

Selected
    Financial Data   

The following table sets forth selected financial data of the
    Company and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
    financial statements included herein.

See footnotes on the following page.

33

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Financial results for 2006 include a $22.9 million pre-tax
    loss for the impairment of the West Texas Division s
    irrigation assets. 

(2)  

Financial results for 2005 include the results of the Mid-Tex
    Division and Atmos Pipeline   Texas Division from
    October 1, 2004, the date of acquisition. 

(3)  

Financial results for 2004 include a $5.9 million pre-tax
    gain on the sale of our interest in U.S. Propane, L.P. and
    Heritage Propane Partners, L.P. 

(4)  

Financial results for fiscal 2003 include the results of MVG
    from December 3, 2002, the date of acquisition. 

(5)  

Beginning in 2004, we reclassified our regulatory cost of
    removal obligation from accumulated depreciation to a liability.
    The amounts presented above for property, plant and equipment,
    working capital and total assets reflect this reclassification
    for all periods presented. These reclassifications did not
    impact our financial position, results of operations or cash
    flows as of and for the years ended September 30, 2003 and
    2002. 

(6)  

The capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing
    shareholders  equity by the sum of total capitalization and
    short-term debt, inclusive of current maturities of long-term
    debt. Beginning in 2004 we reclassified our original issue
    discount costs from deferred charges and other assets to
    long-term debt. This reclassification did not materially impact
    our capitalization or our capitalization ratio as of
    September 30, 2003 and 2002. 

(7)  

The return on average shareholders  equity is calculated by
    dividing current year net income by the average of
    shareholders  equity for the previous five quarters. 

The following table presents a condensed income statement by
    segment for the year ended September 30, 2006.

34

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7.      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

INTRODUCTION  

This section provides management s discussion of the
    financial condition, changes in financial condition and results
    of operations of Atmos Energy Corporation and its consolidated
    subsidiaries with specific information on results of operations
    and liquidity and capital resources. It includes
    management s interpretation of our financial results, the
    factors affecting these results, the major factors expected to
    affect future operating results and future investment and
    financing plans. This discussion should be read in conjunction
    with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

Our performance in the future will primarily depend on the
    results of our utility and nonutility operations. Several
    factors exist that could influence our future financial
    performance, some of which are described in Item 1A above,
     Risk Factors . They should be considered in
    connection with evaluating forward-looking statements contained
    in this report or otherwise made by or on behalf of us since
    these factors could cause actual results and conditions to
    differ materially from those set out in such forward-looking
    statements.

Cautionary
    Statement for the Purposes of the Safe Harbor under the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995   

The statements contained in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    may contain  forward-looking statements  within the
    meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All
    statements other than statements of historical fact included in
    this Report are forward-looking statements made in good faith by
    us and are intended to qualify for the safe harbor from
    liability established by the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995. When used in this Report, or any other of
    our documents or oral presentations, the words
     anticipate ,  believe ,
     estimate ,  expect ,  forecast ,
     goal ,  intend ,  objective ,
     plan ,  projection ,  seek ,
     strategy  or similar words are intended to identify
    forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are
    subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
    results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in
    the statements relating to our strategy, operations, markets,
    services, rates, recovery of costs, availability of gas supply
    and other factors. These risks and uncertainties include the
    following: regulatory trends and decisions, including
    deregulation initiatives and the impact of rate proceedings
    before various state regulatory commissions; adverse weather
    conditions, such as warmer than normal weather in our utility
    service territories or colder than normal weather that could
    adversely affect our natural gas marketing activities; the
    concentration of our distribution, pipeline and storage
    operations in one state; impact of environmental regulations on
    our business; market risks beyond our control affecting our risk
    management activities including market liquidity, commodity
    price volatility, increasing interest rates and counterparty
    creditworthiness; our ability to continue to access the capital
    markets; the effects of inflation and changes in the
    availability and prices of natural gas, including the volatility
    of natural gas prices; increased competition from energy
    suppliers and alternative forms of energy; increased costs of
    providing pension and postretirement health care benefits; the
    capital-intensive nature of our distribution business, the
    inherent hazards and risks involved in operating our
    distribution business, and other risks and uncertainties
    discussed herein, especially in Item 1A above, all of which
    are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our
    control. Accordingly, while we believe these forward-looking
    statements to be reasonable, there can be no assurance that they
    will approximate actual experience or that the expectations
    derived from them will be realized. Further, we undertake no
    obligation to update or revise any of our forward-looking
    statements whether as a result of new information, future events
    or otherwise.

OVERVIEW  

In fiscal 2006, we earned $147.7 million in net income or
    $1.82 per diluted share, compared with net income of
    $135.8 million, or $1.72 per diluted share in fiscal
    2005. The nine percent
     year-over-year 
    increase in net income was primarily attributable strong
    financial results in our natural gas marketing segment as it was
    able to capture higher margins in a volatile natural gas market
    and favorable unrealized
     mark-to-market 
    gains. Additionally, pipeline and storage net income increased
    16 percent compared with the prior year. These positive
    results helped overcome the adverse effects on our utility
    segment of weather (adjusted for WNA) that

35

Table of Contents   

was 13 percent warmer than normal, the adverse effect of
    Hurricane Katrina on our Louisiana Division and a non-recurring,
    noncash charge to impair certain assets. Our utility operations
    contributed $53.0 million ($0.65 per diluted share) or
    36 percent to fiscal 2006 results. Our nonutility
    operations, comprised of our natural gas marketing, pipeline and
    storage and other nonutility segments, contributed
    $94.7 million ($1.17 per diluted share) or
    64 percent to fiscal 2006 results. Key financial and other
    events for fiscal 2006 include the following:

Our utility segment net income decreased $28.1 million
    during the year ended September 30, 2006 compared with the
    year ended September 30, 2005. The decrease primarily
    resulted from the impact of weather, as adjusted for
    jurisdictions with weather-normalized rates, that was two
    percent warmer than the prior-year period and 13 percent
    warmer than normal, coupled with higher operating expenses.
    Utility segment results also reflect a $14.6 million net of
    tax charge associated with the impairment of the West Texas
    Division s irrigation assets.

During fiscal 2006, our Louisiana and Mid-Tex divisions received
    WNA in their rate designs that will go into effect in fiscal
    2007. After receiving WNA in these two jurisdictions, we will
    have weather protection for over 90 percent of our
    residential and commercial meters for the
     2006-2007 
    winter heating season.

Our natural gas marketing segment net income increased
    $35.2 million during the year ended September 30, 2006
    compared with the year ended September 30, 2005. The
    increase in natural gas marketing net income primarily reflects
    an increase in our unrealized margin of $43.2 million and
    increased realized margins due to our ability to capture higher
    margins in a volatile natural gas market. These increases were
    partially offset by a $7.4 million increase in operating
    expenses and increased interest charges resulting from increased
    short-term borrowings to fund working capital needs.

Our pipeline and storage segment net income increased
    $5.0 million during the year ended September 30, 2006
    compared with the year ended September 30, 2005. Increased
    gross profit margin resulting from higher transportation and
    related services margins coupled with increased throughput on
    our Atmos Pipeline-Texas system and Atmos Pipeline &
    Storage, LLC s ability to capture more favorable arbitrage
    spreads in its asset management contracts were partially offset
    by higher operating expenses.

Our capitalization ratio at September 30, 2006 was
    60.9 percent compared with 59.3 percent at
    September 30, 2005 reflecting the impact of increased
    short-term debt borrowings to fund working capital needs
    partially offset by current-year net income.

For the year ended September 30, 2006, we generated
    $311.4 million in operating cash flow compared with
    $386.9 million for the year ended September 30, 2005,
    reflecting the adverse impact of high natural gas costs on our
    working capital.

Capital expenditures increased to $425.3 million from
    $333.2 million primarily reflecting increased capital
    spending for various pipeline expansion projects in our Atmos
    Pipeline   Texas Division.

Our financial performance is discussed in greater detail below
    in Results of Operations.

CRITICAL
    ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  

Our consolidated financial statements were prepared in
    accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States. Preparation of these financial statements
    requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the
    reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses
    and the related disclosures of contingent assets and
    liabilities. We based our estimates on historical experience and
    various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under
    the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our
    estimates, including those related to risk management and
    trading activities, allowance for doubtful accounts, legal and
    environmental accruals, insurance accruals, pension and
    postretirement obligations, deferred income taxes and the
    valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and
    other long-lived assets. Our critical accounting policies are
    reviewed by the Audit Committee quarterly. Actual results may
    differ from estimates.

36

Table of Contents   

Regulation    Our utility operations are subject
    to regulation with respect to rates, service, maintenance of
    accounting records and various other matters by the respective
    regulatory authorities in the states in which we operate. Our
    regulated utility operations are accounted for in accordance
    with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 71,
     Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
    Regulation.  This statement requires cost-based,
    rate-regulated entities that meet certain criteria to reflect
    the financial effects of the ratemaking and accounting practices
    and policies of the various regulatory commissions in their
    financial statements. We record regulatory assets for costs that
    have been deferred for which future recovery through customer
    rates is considered probable. Regulatory liabilities are
    recorded when it is probable that revenues will be reduced for
    amounts that will be credited to customers through the
    ratemaking process. As a result, certain costs that would
    normally be expensed under accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States are permitted to be capitalized
    because they can be recovered through rates. Further, regulation
    may impact the period in which revenues or expenses are
    recognized. The amounts to be recovered or recognized are based
    upon historical experience and our understanding of the
    regulations. The impact of regulation on our utility operations
    may be affected by decisions of the regulatory authorities or
    the issuance of new regulations.

Revenue recognition    Sales of natural gas to
    our utility customers are billed on a monthly cycle basis;
    however, the billing cycle periods for certain classes of
    customers do not necessarily coincide with accounting periods
    used for financial reporting purposes. We follow the revenue
    accrual method of accounting for utility segment revenues
    whereby revenues applicable to gas delivered to customers, but
    not yet billed under the cycle billing method, are estimated and
    accrued and the related costs are charged to expense.

On occasion, we are permitted to implement new rates that have
    not been formally approved by our regulators and are subject to
    refund. As permitted by SFAS No. 71, we recognize this
    revenue and establish a reserve for amounts that could be
    refunded based on our experience for the jurisdiction in which
    the rates were implemented.

Rates established by regulatory authorities are adjusted for
    increases and decreases in our purchased gas cost through
    purchased gas adjustment mechanisms. Purchased gas adjustment
    mechanisms provide gas utility companies a method of recovering
    purchased gas costs on an ongoing basis without filing a rate
    case to address all of the utility s non-gas costs. These
    mechanisms are commonly utilized when regulatory authorities
    recognize a particular type of expense, such as purchased gas
    costs, that (i) is subject to significant price
    fluctuations compared to the utility s other costs,
    (ii) represents a large component of the utility s
    cost of service and (iii) is generally outside the control
    of the gas utility. There is no gross profit generated through
    purchased gas adjustments, but they do provide a
     dollar-for-dollar 
    offset to increases or decreases in utility gas costs. Although
    substantially all of our utility sales to our customers
    fluctuate with the cost of gas that we purchase, utility gross
    profit is generally not affected by fluctuations in the cost of
    gas due to the purchased gas adjustment mechanism. The effects
    of these purchased gas adjustment mechanisms are recorded as
    deferred gas costs on our balance sheet.

Energy trading contracts resulting in the delivery of a
    commodity where we are the principal in the transaction are
    recorded as natural gas marketing sales or purchases at the time
    of physical delivery. Realized gains and losses from the
    settlement of financial instruments that do not result in
    physical delivery related to our natural gas marketing energy
    trading contracts and unrealized gains and losses from changes
    in the market value of open contracts are included as a
    component of natural gas marketing revenues.

Allowance for doubtful accounts    For the
    majority of our receivables, we establish an allowance for
    doubtful accounts based on our collections experience. On
    certain other receivables where we are aware of a specific
    customer s inability or reluctance to pay, we record an
    allowance for doubtful accounts against amounts due to reduce
    the net receivable balance to the amount we reasonably expect to
    collect. However, if circumstances change, our estimate of the
    recoverability of accounts receivable could be different.
    Circumstances which could affect our estimates include, but are
    not limited to, customer credit issues, the level of natural gas
    prices and general economic conditions. Accounts are written off
    once they are deemed to be uncollectible.

Derivatives and hedging activities    In our
    utility segment, we use a combination of storage and financial
    derivatives to partially insulate us and our natural gas utility
    customers against gas price volatility

37

Table of Contents   

during the winter heating season. The financial derivatives we
    use in our utility segment are accounted for under the
     mark-to-market 
    method pursuant to SFAS 133,  Accounting for Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities.  Changes in the valuation
    of these derivatives primarily result from changes in the
    valuation of the portfolio of contracts, the maturity and
    settlement of contracts and newly originated transactions.
    However, because the costs of financial derivatives used in our
    utility segment will ultimately be recovered through our rates,
    current period changes in the assets and liabilities from these
    risk management activities are recorded as a component of
    deferred gas costs in accordance with SFAS 71. Accordingly,
    there is no earnings impact to our utility segment as a result
    of the use of financial derivatives. The changes in the assets
    and liabilities from risk management activities are recognized
    in purchased gas cost in the income statement when the related
    costs are recovered through our rates.

Our natural gas marketing risk management activities are
    conducted through our natural gas marketing segment. This
    segment is exposed to risks associated with changes in the
    market price of natural gas, which we manage through a
    combination of storage and financial derivatives, including
    futures,
     over-the-counter 
    and exchange-traded options and swap contracts with
    counterparties. Option contracts provide the right, but not the
    requirement, to buy or sell the commodity at a fixed price. Swap
    contracts require receipt of payment for the commodity based on
    the difference between a fixed price and the market price on the
    settlement date. The use of these contracts is subject to our
    risk management policies, which are monitored for compliance
    daily.

We participate in transactions in which we combine the natural
    gas commodity and transportation costs to minimize our costs
    incurred to serve our customers. Additionally, we engage in
    natural gas storage transactions in which we seek to find and
    profit from pricing differences that occur over time. We
    purchase or sell physical natural gas and then sell or purchase
    financial contracts at a price sufficient to cover our carrying
    costs and provide a gross profit margin. Through the use of
    transportation and storage services and derivatives, we seek to
    capture gross profit margin through the arbitrage of pricing
    differences in various locations and by recognizing pricing
    differences that occur over time.

Under SFAS 133, natural gas inventory is designated as the
    hedged item in a fair-value hedge by AEM and Atmos Pipeline and
    Storage LLC. This inventory is marked to market at the end of
    each month with changes in fair value recognized as unrealized
    gains or losses in revenue in the period of change. Effective
    October 2005, we changed the index used to value our physical
    natural gas from Inside FERC to Gas Daily to better reflect the
    prices of our physical commodity. This change had no material
    impact on our financial position on the date of adoption. Costs
    to store the gas are recognized in the period the costs are
    incurred. We recognize revenue and the carrying value of the
    inventory as an associated purchased gas cost in our
    consolidated statement of income when we sell the gas and
    deliver it out of the storage facility.

Derivatives associated with our natural gas inventory are marked
    to market each month based upon the NYMEX price with changes in
    fair value recognized as unrealized gains or losses in the
    period of change. The difference in the indices used to mark to
    market our physical inventory (Gas Daily) and the related
    fair-value hedges (NYMEX) are reported as a component of revenue
    and can result in volatility in our reported net income. Over
    time, we expect gains and losses on the sale of storage gas
    inventory to be offset by gains and losses on the fair-value
    hedges, resulting in the realization of the economic gross
    profit margin we anticipated at the time we structured the
    original transaction. We continually manage our positions and
    seek to optimize value as market conditions and other
    circumstances change. We elect to exclude the differential
    between the spot price used to value our physical inventory and
    the forward price used to value the financial hedges designated
    against our physical inventory for purposes of assessing the
    effectiveness of these fair-value hedges.

Similar to our inventory position, we attempt to mitigate
    substantially all of the commodity price risk associated with
    our fixed-price contracts with minimum volume requirements
    through the use of various offsetting derivatives. Prior to
    April 2004, these derivatives were not designated as hedges
    under SFAS 133 because they naturally locked in the
    economic gross profit margin at the time we entered into the
    contract. The fixed-price forward and offsetting derivative
    contracts were marked to market each month with changes in fair
    value recognized as unrealized gains and losses recorded in
    revenue in our consolidated statement of income. The unrealized
    gains and losses were realized as a component of revenue in the
    period in which we fulfilled the requirements of the fixed-price
    contract and the derivatives settled. To the extent that the

38

Table of Contents   

unrealized gains and losses of the fixed-price forward contracts
    and the offsetting derivatives did not offset exactly, our
    earnings experienced some volatility. At delivery, the gains and
    losses on the fixed-price contracts were offset by gains and
    losses on the derivatives, resulting in the realization of the
    economic gross profit margin we anticipated at the time we
    structured the original transaction.

Effective April 2004, we elected to treat our fixed-price
    forward contracts as normal purchases and sales. As a result, we
    ceased marking the fixed-price forward contracts to market. We
    designated the offsetting derivative contracts as cash flow
    hedges of anticipated transactions. As a result of this change,
    unrealized gains and losses on these open derivative contracts
    have been recorded as a component of accumulated other
    comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings as a
    component of revenue when the hedged volumes are sold. Hedge
    ineffectiveness, to the extent incurred, is reported as a
    component of revenue.

Additionally, we utilize storage swaps and futures to capture
    additional storage arbitrage opportunities that arise subsequent
    to the execution of the original fair value hedge associated
    with our physical natural gas inventory, basis swaps to insulate
    and protect the economic value of our fixed price and storage
    books and various over-the-counter and exchange-traded options.
    Although the purpose of these instruments is to either reduce
    basis or other risks or lock in arbitrage opportunities, these
    derivative instruments have not been designated as hedges.
    Accordingly, these derivative instruments are recorded at fair
    value with all changes in fair value included in revenue in our
    natural gas marketing segment.

During fiscal 2004, we entered into four Treasury lock
    agreements to fix the Treasury yield component of the interest
    cost of financing associated with the anticipated issuance of
    $875 million of long-term debt. We designated these
    Treasury lock agreements as cash flow hedges of an anticipated
    transaction. Accordingly, unrealized gains and losses associated
    with the Treasury lock agreements were recorded as a component
    of accumulated other comprehensive income. These Treasury lock
    agreements were settled in October 2004 with a net
    $43.8 million payment to the counterparties. This realized
    loss is being recognized as a component of interest expense over
    the life of the related financing arrangements.

The fair value of our financial derivatives is determined
    through a combination of prices actively quoted on national
    exchanges, prices provided by other external sources and prices
    based on models and other valuation methods. Changes in the
    valuation of our financial derivatives primarily result from
    changes in market prices, the valuation of the portfolio of our
    contracts, maturity and settlement of these contracts and newly
    originated transactions, each of which directly affect the
    estimated fair value of our derivatives. We believe the market
    prices and models used to value these derivatives represent the
    best information available with respect to closing exchange and
     over-the-counter 
    quotations, time value and volatility factors underlying the
    contracts. Values are adjusted to reflect the potential impact
    of an orderly liquidation of our positions over a reasonable
    period of time under then current market conditions.

Impairment assessments    We perform impairment
    assessments of our goodwill, intangible assets subject to
    amortization and long-lived assets. We currently have no
    indefinite-lived intangible assets. We annually evaluate our
    goodwill balances for impairment during our second fiscal
    quarter or as impairment indicators arise. We use a present
    value technique based on discounted cash flows to estimate the
    fair value of our reporting units. We have determined our
    reporting units to be each of our utility divisions and
    wholly-owned subsidiaries. Goodwill is allocated to the
    reporting units responsible for the acquisition that gave rise
    to the goodwill.

The discounted cash flow calculations used to assess goodwill
    impairment are dependent on several subjective factors including
    the timing of future cash flows, future growth rates and the
    discount rate. An impairment charge is recognized if the
    carrying value of a reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its
    fair value.

We periodically evaluate whether events or circumstances have
    occurred that indicate that our intangible assets subject to
    amortization and other long-lived assets may not be recoverable
    or that the remaining useful life may warrant revision. When
    such events or circumstances are present, we assess the
    recoverability of these assets by determining whether the
    carrying value will be recovered through expected future cash
    flows. These cash flow projections consider various factors such
    as the timing of the future cash flows and the discount rate and
    are based upon the best information available at the time the
    estimate is made. Changes in

39

Table of Contents   

these factors could materially affect the cash flow projections
    and result in the recognition of an impairment charge. An
    impairment charge is recognized as the difference between the
    carrying amount and the fair value if the sum of the
    undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying value of the
    related asset.

Pension and other postretirement plans   
    Pension and other postretirement plan costs and liabilities are
    determined on an actuarial basis and are affected by numerous
    assumptions and estimates including the market value of plan
    assets, estimates of the expected return on plan assets, assumed
    discount rates and current demographic and actuarial mortality
    data. We review the estimates and assumptions underlying our
    pension and other postretirement plan costs and liabilities
    annually based upon a June 30 measurement date. The assumed
    discount rate and the expected return are the assumptions that
    generally have the most significant impact on our pension costs
    and liabilities. The assumed discount rate, the assumed health
    care cost trend rate and assumed rates of retirement generally
    have the most significant impact on our postretirement plan
    costs and liabilities.

The discount rate is utilized principally in calculating the
    actuarial present value of our pension and postretirement
    obligation and net pension and postretirement cost. When
    establishing our discount rate, we consider high quality
    corporate bond rates based on Moody s Aa bond index,
    changes in those rates from the prior year and the implied
    discount rate that is derived from matching our projected
    benefit disbursements with a high quality corporate bond spot
    rate curve.

The expected long-term rate of return on assets is utilized in
    calculating the expected return on plan assets component of our
    annual pension and postretirement plan cost. We estimate the
    expected return on plan assets by evaluating expected bond
    returns, equity risk premiums, asset allocations, the effects of
    active plan management, the impact of periodic plan asset
    rebalancing and historical performance. We also consider the
    guidance from our investment advisors in making a final
    determination of our expected rate of return on assets. To the
    extent the actual rate of return on assets realized over the
    course of a year is greater than or less than the assumed rate,
    that year s annual pension or postretirement plan cost is
    not affected. Rather, this gain or loss reduces or increases
    future pension or postretirement plan cost over a period of
    approximately ten to twelve years.

We estimate the assumed health care cost trend rate used in
    determining our postretirement net expense based upon our actual
    health care cost experience, the effects of recently enacted
    legislation and general economic conditions. Our assumed rate of
    retirement is estimated based upon our annual review of our
    participant census information as of the measurement date.

Actual changes in the fair market value of plan assets and
    differences between the actual return on plan assets and the
    expected return on plan assets could have a material effect on
    the amount of pension cost ultimately recognized. A
    0.25 percent change in our discount rate would impact our
    pension and postretirement cost by approximately
    $1.1 million. A 0.25 percent change in our expected
    rate of return would impact our pension and postretirement cost
    by approximately $0.8 million.

40

Table of Contents   

RESULTS
    OF OPERATIONS  

The following table presents our financial highlights for the
    three fiscal years ended September 30, 2006:

(1)  

Adjusted for service areas that have weather normalized
    operations. For service areas that have weather normalized
    operations, normal degree days are used instead of actual degree
    days in computing the total number of heating degree days. 

41

Table of Contents   

The following table shows our operating income by utility
    division and by segment for the three fiscal years ended
    September 30, 2006. The presentation of our utility
    operating income is included for financial reporting purposes
    and may not be appropriate for ratemaking purposes.

(1)  

Adjusted for service areas that have weather-normalized
    operations. For service areas that have weather normalized
    operations, normal degree days are used instead of actual degree
    days in computing the total number of heating degree days. 

Year
    ended September 30, 2006 compared with year ended
    September 30, 2005  

Utility
    segment   

Our utility segment has historically contributed 65 to
    85 percent of our consolidated net income. However, during
    fiscal 2006, our utility segment contributed approximately
    36 percent of our consolidated net income primarily due to
    the adverse effect of significantly warmer than normal weather,
    the adverse effect of Hurricane Katrina and a non-recurring,
    noncash charge to recognize the impairment of our irrigation
    assets. The primary factors that impact the results of our
    utility operations are seasonal weather patterns, competitive
    factors in the energy industry and economic conditions in our
    service areas. Natural gas sales to residential, commercial and
    public-authority customers are affected by winter heating season
    requirements. This generally results in higher operating
    revenues and net income during the period from October through
    March of each year and lower operating revenues and either lower
    net income or net losses during the period from April through
    September of each year. Accordingly, our second fiscal quarter
    has historically been our most critical earnings quarter with an
    average of approximately 64 percent of our consolidated net
    income having been earned in the second quarter during the three
    most recently completed fiscal years. Additionally, we typically
    experience higher levels of accounts receivable, accounts
    payable, gas stored underground and short-term debt balances
    during the winter heating season due to the seasonal nature of
    our revenues and the need to purchase and store gas to support
    these operations. Utility sales to industrial customers are much
    less weather sensitive.

Changes in the cost of gas impact revenue but do not directly
    affect our gross profit from utility operations because the
    fluctuations in gas prices are passed through to our customers.
    Accordingly, we believe gross profit margin is a better
    indicator of our financial performance than revenues. However,
    higher gas costs may cause customers to conserve or, in the case
    of industrial customers, to use alternative energy sources.
    Higher gas costs may also adversely impact our accounts
    receivable collections, resulting in higher bad debt

42

Table of Contents   

expense, and may require us to increase borrowings under our
    credit facilities resulting in higher interest expense.

The effects of weather that is above or below normal are
    substantially offset through weather normalization adjustments
    in most of our service areas. WNA allows us to increase the base
    rate portion of customers  bills when weather is warmer
    than normal and decrease the base rate when weather is colder
    than normal. Accordingly, in our WNA service areas, our gross
    profit margin should be based substantially on the amount of
    gross profit that would result from normal weather, despite
    actual weather conditions that may be either warmer or colder
    than normal.

During fiscal 2006, we received WNA in our two most weather
    sensitive jurisdictions: the Louisiana and Mid-Tex divisions.
    With the addition of WNA in these two jurisdictions, we will
    have weather protection for over 90 percent of our
    residential and commercial meters for the 2006-2007 winter
    heating season. Prior to these decisions, there was limited
    weather protection in these jurisdictions. The Louisiana
    Division had previously benefited from a higher base customer
    charge. However, this rate structure was not as beneficial
    during periods where weather was significantly warmer than
    normal. In May 2006, the LPSC approved a settlement that
    provided for a modified WNA which provides a partial decoupling
    mechanism to stabilize this jurisdiction s margins. The
    approved WNA will cover a period from December to March.

Prior to October 1, 2006, the
     Mid-Tex 
    Division, which is our largest utility division and contains
    almost 50 percent of our approximately 3.2 million
    distribution customers, had benefited from a rate structure that
    combined a monthly customer charge with a declining block rate
    schedule to partially mitigate the impact of warmer-than-normal
    weather on revenue. The combination of the monthly customer
    charge and the customer billing under the first block of the
    declining block rate schedule provided for the recovery of a
    significant portion of our fixed costs for such operations under
    average weather conditions. However, this rate structure was not
    as beneficial during periods where weather was significantly
    warmer than normal.

In July 2006, in connection with the
     Mid-Tex 
    Division rate proceeding the RRC approved an interim and a
    permanent WNA effective October 1, 2006 for the
     Mid-Tex 
    Division. The WNA covers the period from October through May.
    The interim WNA is based on 30 years of weather history,
    and the permanent WNA will be modified or adjusted to conform to
    the rate design that the RRC ultimately approves in the rate
    proceeding, which proceeding is described in greater detail
    under Recent Ratemaking Activity.

In the pending rate proceeding before the RRC, we are seeking
    for our
     Mid-Tex 
    Division additional annual revenues of approximately
    $60 million and several rate design changes including
    revenue stabilization and recovery of the gas cost component of
    bad debt expense. While the outcome of the
     Mid-Tex 
    Division s pending rate proceeding before the RRC cannot be
    predicted with certainty, we believe that we have adequately
    demonstrated to the RRC that the
     Mid-Tex 
    Division is entitled to receive an increase in annual revenues
    and that the remaining rate design changes should be
    implemented. However, if the RRC were to deny an increase in the
     Mid-Tex 
    Division s rates or not allow new rate design changes the
     Mid-Tex 
    Division has requested, our business, financial condition and
    results of operations could be adversely affected in the future.

Operating
    income  

Utility gross profit increased to $925.1 million for the
    year ended September 30, 2006 from $907.4 million for
    the year ended September 30, 2005. Total throughput for our
    utility business was 394.0 Bcf during the current year
    compared to 411.1 Bcf in the prior year.

The increase in utility gross profit, despite lower throughput,
    primarily reflects higher franchise fees and state gross
    receipts taxes, which are paid by utility customers and have no
    permanent effect on net income. Additionally, margins increased
    approximately $14.0 million due to rate increases received
    from our fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 GRIP filings and the
    recognition of $6.2 million that had been previously
    deferred in Louisiana following the LPSC s ratification of
    our agreement in May 2006. These increases were partially offset
    by approximately $22.9 million due to the impact of
    significantly warmer than normal weather, particularly in our
    Mid-Tex and Louisiana divisions. For the year ended
    September 30, 2006, weather was

43

Table of Contents   

13 percent warmer than normal, as adjusted for
    jurisdictions with weather-normalized operations and two percent
    warmer than the prior year. In the Mid-Tex and Louisiana
    Divisions, which did not have weather-normalized rates during
    the
     2005-2006 
    winter heating season, weather was 28 percent and
    22 percent warmer than normal.

Additionally, utility gross profit decreased approximately
    $2.9 million compared with the prior year in the Louisiana
    Division due to the impact of Hurricane Katrina. Service has
    been restored in some areas affected by the storm; however, it
    is not likely that service will be restored to all of the
    affected service areas. As more fully described under Recent
    Ratemaking Activity, we implemented new rates in September 2006
    that reflect the impact of Hurricane Katrina.

Operating expenses increased to $723.2 million for the year
    ended September 30, 2006 from $671.0 million for the
    year ended September 30, 2005. The increase reflects a
    $13.3 million increase in taxes, primarily related to
    franchise fees and state gross receipts taxes, both of which are
    calculated as a percentage of revenue, and are paid by our
    customers as a component of their monthly bills. Although these
    amounts are included as a component of revenue in accordance
    with our tariffs, timing differences between when these amounts
    are billed to our customers and when we recognize the associated
    expense may affect net income favorably or unfavorably on a
    temporary basis. However, there is no permanent effect on net
    income.

Operation and maintenance expense, excluding the provision for
    doubtful accounts, increased $7.8 million primarily due to
    higher employee costs associated with increased headcount to
    fill positions that were previously outsourced to a third party,
    higher medical and dental claims and increased pension and
    postretirement costs resulting from changes in the assumptions
    used to determine our fiscal 2006 costs. Increased line locate,
    telecommunication and facilities costs also contributed to the
    overall increase. These increases were partially offset by a
    reduction in third-party costs for outsourced administrative and
    meter reading functions that were in-sourced during fiscal 2006.
    Operation and maintenance expense for the year ended
    September 30, 2006 was also favorably impacted by the
    absence of $2.1 million of merger and integration cost
    amortization associated with the merger of United Cities Gas
    Company in July 1997, as these costs were fully amortized by
    December 2004.

The provision for doubtful accounts increased $3.1 million
    to $20.6 million for the year ended September 30,
    2006, compared with $17.5 million in the prior year. The
    increase was primarily attributable to increased collection risk
    associated with higher natural gas prices. In the utility
    segment, the average cost of natural gas for the year ended
    September 30, 2006 was $10.02 per Mcf, compared with
    $7.41 per Mcf for the year ended September 30, 2005.

Additionally, during the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the MPSC,
    in connection with the modification of our rate design described
    in Recent Ratemaking Activity, decided to allow the recovery of
    $2.8 million in deferred costs, which it had originally
    disallowed in its September 2004 decision. This charge was
    originally recorded in fiscal 2004. This ruling decreased our
    depreciation expense during the year ended September 30,
    2006. This decrease was offset by increased depreciation expense
    associated with the placement of various capital projects into
    service during the fiscal year.

Operating expenses were also impacted by $22.9 million
    noncash charge to impair our West Texas Division s
    irrigation assets. During the fiscal 2006 fourth quarter, we
    determined that, as a result of declining irrigation sales
    primarily associated with our agricultural customers  shift
    from gas-powered pumps to electric pumps, the West Texas
    Division s irrigation assets would not be able to generate
    sufficient future cash flows from operations to recover the net
    investment in these assets. Therefore, the entire net book value
    was written off. We will continue to operate these assets until
    we determine a plan for these assets as we are obligated to
    provide natural gas services to certain customers served by
    these assets.

As a result of the aforementioned factors, our utility segment
    operating income for the year ended September 30, 2006
    decreased to $201.9 million from $236.4 million for
    the year ended September 30, 2005.

44

Table of Contents   

Miscellaneous
    income  

Miscellaneous income for the year ended September 30, 2006
    was $9.5 million compared to miscellaneous income of
    $6.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2005.
    This increase was primarily attributable to increased interest
    income on intercompany borrowings to our natural gas marketing
    segment to fund its working capital needs. This increase was
    partially offset by a $3.3 million charge recorded during
    the fiscal 2006 second quarter associated with an adverse ruling
    in Tennessee related to the calculation of a performance-based
    rate mechanism associated with gas purchases.

Interest
    charges  

Interest charges allocated to the utility segment for the year
    ended September 30, 2006 increased to $126.5 million
    from $112.4 million for the year ended September 30,
    2005. The increase was attributable to higher average
    outstanding short-term debt balances to fund natural gas
    purchases at significantly higher prices coupled with an
    approximate 200 basis point increase in the interest rate
    on our $300 million unsecured floating rate Senior Notes
    due 2007 due to an increase in the three-month LIBOR rate. These
    increases were partially offset by $4.8 million of interest
    savings arising from the early payoff of $72.5 million of
    our First Mortgage Bonds in June 2005.

Natural
    gas marketing segment   

Our natural gas marketing segment aggregates and purchases gas
    supply, arranges transportation
     and/or 
    storage logistics and ultimately delivers gas to our customers
    at competitive prices. To facilitate this process, we utilize
    proprietary and customer-owned transportation and storage assets
    to provide the various services our customers request, including
    furnishing natural gas supplies at fixed and market-based
    prices, contract negotiation and administration, load
    forecasting, gas storage acquisition and management services,
    transportation services, peaking sales and balancing services,
    capacity utilization strategies and gas price hedging through
    the use of derivative products. As a result, our revenues arise
    from the types of commercial transactions we have structured
    with our customers and include the value we extract by
    optimizing the storage and transportation capacity we own or
    control as well as revenues for services we deliver.

To optimize the storage and transportation capacity we own or
    control, we participate in transactions in which we combine the
    natural gas commodity and transportation costs to minimize our
    costs incurred to serve our customers by identifying the lowest
    cost alternative within the natural gas supplies, transportation
    and markets to which we have access. Additionally, we engage in
    natural gas storage transactions in which we seek to find and
    profit from the pricing differences that occur over time. We
    purchase physical natural gas and then sell financial contracts
    at favorable prices to lock in gross profit margins. Through the
    use of transportation and storage services and derivative
    contracts, we seek to capture gross profit margin through the
    arbitrage of pricing differences in various locations and by
    recognizing pricing differences that occur over time.

Operating
    income  

Gross profit margin for our natural gas marketing segment
    consists primarily of marketing activities, which represent the
    utilization of proprietary and customer-owned transportation and
    storage assets to provide the various services our customers
    request, and storage activities, which are derived from the
    optimization of our managed proprietary and third party storage
    and transportation assets.

45

Table of Contents   

Our natural gas marketing segment s gross profit margin was
    comprised of the following for the year ended September 30,
    2006 and 2005:

Our natural gas marketing segment s gross profit margin was
    $130.6 million for the year ended September 30, 2006
    compared to gross profit of $62.0 million for the year
    ended September 30, 2005. Gross profit margin from our
    natural gas marketing segment for the year ended
    September 30, 2006 included an unrealized gain of
    $17.2 million compared with an unrealized loss of
    $26.0 million in the prior year. Natural gas marketing
    sales volumes were 336.5 Bcf during the year ended
    September 30, 2006 compared with 273.2 Bcf for the
    prior year. Excluding intersegment sales volumes, natural gas
    marketing sales volumes were 284.0 Bcf during the current
    year compared with 238.1 Bcf in the prior year. The
    increase in consolidated natural gas marketing sales volumes was
    primarily due to focusing our marketing efforts on higher margin
    opportunities partially offset by
     warmer-than-normal 
    weather across our market areas.

Our storage activities generated $24.9 million in gross
    profit margin for the year ended September 30, 2006
    compared to $14.0 million for the year ended
    September 30, 2005. Lower realized margins in our storage
    operations were primarily due to the realization of less
    favorable arbitrage spreads compared with the prior year coupled
    with increased storage fees. These decreases were partially
    offset by a decrease in the unrealized loss associated with
    these operations due to a favorable movement during the year
    ended September 30, 2006 in the forward natural gas prices
    used to value the financial hedges designated against our
    physical inventory and our fixed-price forward contracts. These
    decreases were also favorably impacted by positive basis
    ineffectiveness resulting from natural gas market price
    differences between the locations of the hedged inventory and
    the delivery location specified in the derivative instruments
    designated as a fair value hedge. These results were magnified
    by a 7.6 Bcf increase in our net physical position at
    September 30, 2006 compared to the prior year. We
    continually seek opportunities to increase the amount of our
    storage capacity. To the extent we obtain and utilize new
    capacity and experience price volatility, the amount of our
    unrealized storage contribution could increase in future periods.

Our marketing activities generated $105.7 million in gross
    profit margin for the year ended September 30, 2006
    compared with $48.0 million for the year ended
    September 30, 2005. This increase reflects increased
    realized margins coupled with a favorable unrealized margin
    variance compared with the prior year. The increase in our
    realized marketing operations was primarily attributable to
    successfully capturing increased margins in certain market areas
    that experienced higher market volatility. The favorable
    unrealized margin variance was primarily due to favorable
    movement during the year ended September 30, 2006 in the
    forward natural gas prices associated with financial derivatives
    used in these activities and positive basis ineffectiveness on
    those financial derivatives.

Operating expenses, which include operation and maintenance
    expense, provision for doubtful accounts, depreciation and
    amortization expense and taxes other than income taxes,
    increased to $28.4 million for the

46

Table of Contents   

year ended September 30, 2006 from $21.0 million for
    the year ended September 30, 2005. The increase in
    operating expense primarily was attributable to an increase in
    personnel costs due to increased headcount and an increase in
    regulatory compliance costs.

The improved gross profit margin partially offset by higher
    operating expenses resulted in an increase in our natural gas
    marketing segment operating income to $102.2 million for
    the year ended September 30, 2006 compared with operating
    income of $41.0 million for the year ended
    September 30, 2005.

Interest
    charges  

Interest charges allocated to the natural gas marketing segment
    for the year ended September 30, 2006 increased to
    $8.5 million from $3.4 million for the year ended
    September 30, 2005. The increase was attributable to higher
    average outstanding debt balances to fund natural gas purchases
    at significantly higher prices.

Pipeline
    and storage segment   

Our pipeline and storage segment consists of the regulated
    pipeline and storage operations of the Atmos
    Pipeline   Texas Division and the nonregulated
    pipeline and storage operations of Atmos Pipeline and Storage,
    LLC (APS), which were previously included in our other
    nonutility segment. The Atmos Pipeline   Texas
    Division transports natural gas to our Mid-Tex Division and for
    third parties and manages five underground storage reservoirs in
    Texas. We also provide ancillary services customary in the
    pipeline industry including parking arrangements, lending and
    sales of inventory on hand. These operations represent one of
    the largest intrastate pipeline operations in Texas with a heavy
    concentration in the established natural gas-producing areas of
    central, northern and eastern Texas, extending into or near the
    major producing areas of the Texas Gulf Coast and the Delaware
    and Val Verde Basins of West Texas. This pipeline system
    provides access to nine basins located in Texas, which are
    estimated to contain a substantial portion of the nation s
    remaining onshore natural gas reserves. APS owns or has an
    interest in underground storage fields in Kentucky and
    Louisiana. We also use these storage facilities to reduce the
    need to contract for additional pipeline capacity to meet
    customer demand during peak periods.

Similar to our utility segment, our pipeline and storage segment
    is impacted by seasonal weather patterns, competitive factors in
    the energy industry and economic conditions in our service
    areas. Natural gas transportation requirements are affected by
    the winter heating season requirements of our customers. This
    generally results in higher operating revenues and net income
    during the period from October through March of each year and
    lower operating revenues and either lower net income or net
    losses during the period from April through September of each
    year. Further, as the Atmos Pipeline   Texas Division
    operations supply all of the natural gas for our Mid-Tex
    Division, the results of this segment are highly dependent upon
    the natural gas requirements of the Mid-Tex Division. As a
    regulated pipeline, the operations of the Atmos
    Pipeline   Texas Division may be impacted by the
    timing of when costs and expenses are incurred and when these
    costs and expenses are recovered through its tariffs.

47

Table of Contents   

Operating
    income  

Gross profit margin for our pipeline and storage segment
    primarily consists of transportation margins earned from our
    Mid-Tex Division and from third parties, other ancillary
    pipeline services and asset management fees earned by APS. Our
    pipeline and storage segment s gross profit margin was
    comprised of the following components for the year ended
    September 30, 2006 and 2005:

Pipeline and storage gross profit increased to
    $159.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2006
    from $146.5 million for the year ended September 30,
    2005. Total pipeline transportation volumes were 591.0 Bcf
    during the year ended September 30, 2006 compared with
    563.9 Bcf for the prior year. Excluding intersegment
    transportation volumes, total pipeline transportation volumes
    were 420.2 Bcf during the current year compared with
    383.4 Bcf in the prior year.

The increase in gross profit was primarily attributable to
    increased third-party throughput and ancillary services, coupled
    with increased margins on APS  asset management contracts.
    Increased third-party throughput on Atmos Pipeline  
    Texas was primarily attributable to increases in the
    electric-generation market due to the warmer than normal
    temperatures during the summer of 2006, increased demand for
    through-system transportation services due to a widening of
    pricing differentials between the pipeline s hubs and the
    impact of Atmos Pipeline   Texas  North Side Loop
    and other compression projects that were placed into service in
    June 2006. Storage and parking and lending services on Atmos
    Pipeline   Texas also increased during fiscal 2006 as
    a result of the widening of pricing differentials between the
    pipeline s hubs, which increased the attractiveness of
    storing gas on the pipeline and our ability to obtain improved
    margins for these services. The increases on Atmos
    Pipeline   Texas  system were partially offset by
    a decrease in margins earned from intercompany transportation
    services to our Mid-Tex Division due to the significantly warmer
    than normal weather experienced during fiscal 2006.
    Additionally, these increases were partially offset by the
    absence of inventory sales of $3.0 million realized in the
    prior year.

Increases in APS  margins due to its ability to capture
    more favorable arbitrage spreads on its asset management
    contracts also contributed to this segment s improved gross
    profit margin. These improved margins reflect an unrealized
    component as APS hedges its risk associated with these
    contracts. During fiscal 2006, favorable movements in the
    forward natural gas prices used to value the financial hedges
    designated against the physical inventory underlying these
    contracts resulted in an unrealized gain compared with an
    unrealized loss in the prior year.

Operating expenses increased to $81.9 million for the year
    ended September 30, 2006 from $76.2 million for the
    year ended September 30, 2005 due to higher employee
    benefit costs associated with the increase in headcount,
    increased pension and postretirement costs resulting from
    changes in the assumptions used to determine our fiscal 2006
    costs, higher facilities costs and higher pipeline integrity
    costs.

As a result of the aforementioned factors, our pipeline and
    storage segment operating income for the year ended
    September 30, 2006 increased to $77.9 million from
    $70.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2005.

48

Table of Contents   

Other
    nonutility segment   

Our other nonutility businesses consist primarily of the
    operations of Atmos Energy Services, LLC, and Atmos Power
    Systems, Inc. Through AES, we provide natural gas management
    services to our utility operations, other than the Mid-Tex
    Division. These services, which began April 2004, include
    aggregating and purchasing gas supply, arranging transportation
    and storage logistics and ultimately delivering the gas to our
    utility service areas at competitive prices. The revenues of AES
    represent charges to our utility divisions equal to the costs
    incurred to provide those services. Through Atmos Power Systems,
    Inc., we have constructed electric peaking power-generating
    plants and associated facilities and have entered into
    agreements to lease these plants.

Operating income for this segment primarily reflects the leasing
    income associated with two sales-type lease transactions
    completed in 2001 and 2002 and was essentially unchanged for the
    year ended September 30, 2006 compared with the prior year.

Year
    ended September 30, 2005 compared with year ended
    September 30, 2004  

Utility
    segment   

Operating
    income  

Utility gross profit increased to $907.4 million for the
    year ended September 30, 2005 from $503.1 million for
    the year ended September 30, 2004. Total throughput for our
    utility business was 411.1 Bcf during the current year
    compared to 246.0 Bcf in the prior year.

The increase in utility gross profit margin primarily reflects
    the impact of the acquisition of the Mid-Tex Division resulting
    in an increase in utility gross profit margin and total
    throughput of $398.2 million and 174.3 Bcf. The
    $6.1 million increase in the gross profit generated from
    our other utility operations primarily reflects rate increases
    in our Mississippi and West Texas divisions that were absent in
    the prior year coupled with the recognition of a
    $1.9 million refund to our customers in our Colorado
    service area in the prior year. Offsetting these increases was a
    $3.9 million reduction in gross profit in our Louisiana
    Division due to the impact of Hurricane Katrina. Gross profit
    margins, particularly in Louisiana, were also adversely impacted
    by weather (as adjusted for jurisdictions with
    weather-normalized operations) that was five percent warmer than
    normal and one percent warmer than the prior year period.
    Additionally, gross profit margin was adversely impacted by the
    lack of cold weather in patterns sufficient to encourage
    customers to increase their heat load consumption and lower
    irrigation throughput in our West Texas and Colorado-Kansas
    Divisions.

Operating expenses, which include operation and maintenance
    expense, provision for doubtful accounts, depreciation and
    amortization expense and taxes other than income taxes,
    increased to $671.0 million for the year ended
    September 30, 2005 from $343.2 million for the year
    ended September 30, 2004 primarily as a result of the
    addition of the Mid-Tex Division. Excluding the impact of the
    Mid-Tex Division, operating expenses for our other utility
    operations increased $14.5 million primarily due to
    $2.3 million associated with the effects of Hurricane
    Katrina, a $7.7 million increase in taxes, other than
    income, a $2.4 million increase in operation and
    maintenance expense, including the provision for doubtful
    accounts, and a $2.1 million increase in depreciation and
    amortization. Included in taxes other than income taxes are
    franchise and state gross receipts taxes which are paid by our
    customers as a component of their monthly bills. Although these
    amounts are offset in revenues through customer billings, timing
    differences between when the expense is incurred and is
    recovered may impact our net income on a temporary basis.
    However, there is no permanent effect on net income.

As a result of the aforementioned factors, our utility segment
    operating income for the year ended September 30, 2005
    increased to $236.4 million from $159.9 million for
    the year ended September 30, 2004.

Miscellaneous
    income  

Miscellaneous income increased to $6.8 million for the year
    ended September 30, 2005 from $5.8 million for the
    year ended September 30, 2004. The increase was
    attributable to an increase in interest income earned

49

Table of Contents   

on higher cash balances during the current year compared with
    the prior year partially offset by the recognition of a
    $0.8 million gain on the sale of a building during the year
    ended September 30, 2004.

Interest
    charges  

Interest charges allocated to the utility segment for the year
    ended September 30, 2005 increased to $112.4 million
    from $65.4 million for the year ended September 30,
    2004. The increase was attributable to the interest expense
    associated with the issuance of long-term debt to finance the
    acquisition of the Mid-Tex Division in October 2004. On
    June 30, 2005, we repaid $72.5 million in principal on
    five series of our First Mortgage Bonds prior to their scheduled
    maturities. The early repayment of these bonds resulted in
    savings of $1.3 million in interest expense in fiscal 2005.

Natural
    gas marketing segment   

Operating
    income  

Our natural gas marketing segment s gross profit margin was
    comprised of the following for the years ended
    September 30, 2005 and 2004:

Our natural gas marketing segment s gross profit margin was
    $62.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2005
    compared to gross profit of $46.6 million for the year
    ended September 30, 2004. Gross profit margin from our
    natural gas marketing segment for the year ended September 30,
    2005 included an unrealized loss of $26.0 million compared
    with an unrealized loss of $2.8 million in the prior year.
    Natural gas marketing sales volumes were 273.2 Bcf during
    the year ended September 30, 2005 compared with
    265.1 Bcf for the prior year. Excluding intersegment sales
    volumes, natural gas marketing sales volumes were 238.1 Bcf
    during the current year compared with 222.6 Bcf in the
    prior year. The increase in consolidated natural gas marketing
    sales volumes primarily was attributable to successfully
    executed marketing strategies into new market areas.

The contribution to gross profit from our storage activities was
    a gain of $14.0 million for the year ended
    September 30, 2005 compared to a loss of $1.5 million
    for the year ended September 30, 2004. The
    $15.5 million improvement primarily was attributable to a
    $29.9 million increase in the realized storage contribution
    for the year ended September 30, 2005 compared to the prior
    year due to more favorable arbitrage spread opportunities during
    the current year, partially offset by increased storage fees
    associated with 9.0 Bcf of newly contracted storage
    capacity during the third quarter of fiscal 2005. Annual demand
    charges for this new storage approximate $7.6 million. We
    may further increase the amount of our storage capacity in the
    future; therefore, the impact of price volatility on our
    unrealized storage contribution could become more significant in
    future periods.

50

Table of Contents   

A $14.4 million decrease in the unrealized storage
    contribution resulted from an unfavorable movement during the
    year ended September 30, 2005 in the forward indices used
    to value the storage financial instruments combined with greater
    physical natural gas storage quantities at September 30,
    2005 compared to the prior year also.

Our marketing activities contributed $48.0 million to our
    gross profit for the year ended September 30, 2005 compared
    to $48.2 million for the year ended September 30,
    2004. The decrease in the marketing contribution primarily was
    attributable to $12.0 million of unrealized
     marked-to-market 
    losses associated with basis swaps that were put in place to
    capture margins in certain volatile market areas. The increase
    in unrealized
     marked-to-market 
    losses was partially offset by an increase in our realized
    marketing margins due to focusing our marketing efforts on
    higher margin customers and successfully entering into new
    market areas.

Operating expenses, which include operation and maintenance
    expense, provision for doubtful accounts, depreciation and
    amortization expense and taxes other than income taxes,
    increased to $21.0 million for the year ended
    September 30, 2005 from $18.9 million for the year
    ended September 30, 2004. The increase in operating expense
    was attributable primarily to an increase in labor costs due to
    increased headcount and an increase in regulatory compliance
    costs.

The increase in gross profit margin, combined with higher
    operating expenses, resulted in an increase in our natural gas
    marketing segment operating income to $41.0 million for the
    year ended September 30, 2005 compared with operating
    income of $27.7 million for the year ended
    September 30, 2004.

Pipeline
    and storage segment   

Operating
    income  

Pipeline and storage gross profit increased to
    $146.5 million for the year ended September 30, 2005
    from $10.4 million for the year ended September 30,
    2004. Total pipeline transportation volumes were 563.9 Bcf
    during the year ended September 30, 2005 compared with
    9.4 Bcf for the prior year. Excluding intersegment
    transportation volumes, total pipeline transportation volumes
    were 383.4 Bcf during the current year.

The increase in pipeline and storage gross profit margin
    primarily reflects the impact of the acquisition of the Atmos
    Pipeline   Texas Division resulting in an increase in
    pipeline and storage gross profit margin and total
    transportation volumes of $138.1 million and
    375.6 Bcf. Also contributing to Atmos Pipeline  
    Texas Division s results were higher transportation and
    related services margin due to significant basis differentials
    at its three major Texas hubs. The $2.0 million decrease in
    the gross profit generated by APS primarily reflects a decrease
    in asset management fees received during fiscal 2005.

Operating expenses increased to $76.2 million for the year
    ended September 30, 2005 from $5.1 million for the
    year ended September 30, 2004 due to the addition of
    $72.2 million in operating expenses associated with the
    Atmos Pipeline   Texas Division. As the Atmos
    Pipeline   Texas Division is a regulated entity,
    franchise and state gross receipts taxes are paid by our
    customers; thus, these amounts are offset in revenues through
    customer billings and have no permanent effect on net income.
    Included in operating expense was $8.9 million associated
    with taxes other than income taxes, of which $8.3 million
    was associated with our Atmos Pipeline   Texas
    Division.

As a result of the aforementioned factors, our pipeline and
    storage segment operating income for the year ended
    September 30, 2005 increased to $70.3 million from
    $5.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2004.

Interest
    charges  

Interest charges allocated to this segment for the year ended
    September 30, 2005 increased to $24.6 million from
    $1.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2004.
    The increase was attributable to the interest expense associated
    with the issuance of long-term debt to finance the acquisition
    of the Atmos Pipeline   Texas Division in October 2004.

51

Table of Contents   

Other
    nonutility segment   

Operating income for our other nonutility segment primarily
    reflects the leasing income associated with two sales-type lease
    transactions completed in fiscal 2001 and 2002. The increase in
    operating income during the year ended September 30, 2005
    reflects the absence of a one-time charge of $0.4 million
    associated with the wind-down of a noncore business during
    fiscal 2004.

Miscellaneous income for the year ended September 30, 2005
    was $2.6 million compared with $8.3 million for the
    year ended September 30, 2004. The $5.7 million
    decrease was attributable primarily to the recognition of a
    $5.9 million pretax gain on the sale of all remaining
    limited partnership interests in Heritage Propane Partners, L.P.
    during fiscal 2004.

LIQUIDITY
    AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Our working capital and liquidity for capital expenditure and
    other cash needs are provided from internally generated funds,
    borrowings under our credit facilities and commercial paper
    program and funds raised from the public debt and equity capital
    markets. We believe that these sources of funds will provide the
    necessary working capital and liquidity for capital expenditures
    and other cash needs for fiscal 2007. These facilities are
    described in greater detail below and in Note 6 to the
    consolidated financial statements.

Capitalization  

The following presents our capitalization as of
    September 30, 2006 and 2005:

Total debt as a percentage of total capitalization, including
    short-term debt, was 60.9 percent and 59.3 percent at
    September 30, 2006 and 2005. The increase in the debt to
    capitalization ratio was primarily attributable to an increase
    in our short-term debt borrowings to fund our working capital
    needs partially offset by current-year net income. Our ratio of
    total debt to capitalization is typically greater during the
    winter heating season as we make additional short-term
    borrowings to fund natural gas purchases and meet our working
    capital requirements. Within three to five years, we intend to
    reduce our capitalization ratio to a target range of 50 to
    55 percent through cash flow generated from operations,
    continued issuance of new common stock under our Direct Stock
    Purchase Plan and Retirement Savings Plan and access to the
    equity capital markets.

Cash
    Flows  

Our internally generated funds may change in the future due to a
    number of factors, some of which we cannot control. These
    include regulatory changes, the price for our services, the
    demand for services, margin requirements resulting from
    significant changes in commodity prices, operational risks and
    other factors.

Cash
    flows from operating activities   

Year-over-year 
    changes in our operating cash flows are primarily attributable
    to working capital changes within our utility segment resulting
    from the impact of weather, the price of natural gas and the
    timing of customer collections, payments for natural gas
    purchases and deferred gas cost recoveries.

For the year ended September 30, 2006, we generated
    operating cash flow of $311.4 million compared with
    $386.9 million in fiscal 2005 and $270.7 million in
    fiscal 2004. The significant factors impacting our operating
    cash flow for the last three fiscal years are summarized below.

52

Table of Contents   

Year
    ended September 30, 2006  

Fiscal 2006 operating cash flows reflect the adverse impact of
    significantly higher natural gas prices.
     Year-over-year, 
    unfavorable timing of payments for accounts payable and other
    accrued liabilities reduced operating cash flow by
    $523.0 million. Partially offsetting these outflows were
    higher customer collections ($245.1 million) and reduced
    payments for natural gas inventories ($102.1 million).
    Additionally, favorable movements in the market indices used to
    value our natural gas marketing segment risk management assets
    and liabilities reduced the amount that we were required to
    deposit in a margin account and therefore favorably affected
    operating cash flow by $126.3 million.

Year
    ended September 30, 2005  

Fiscal 2005 operating cash flows reflect the effects of a
    $49.6 million increase in net income and effective working
    capital management partially offset by higher natural gas
    prices. Working capital management efforts, which affected the
    timing of payments for accounts payable and other accrued
    liabilities, favorably affected operating cash flow by
    $354.1 million. However, these efforts were partially
    offset by reduced cash flow generated from accounts receivable
    changes by $168.9 million, primarily attributable to higher
    natural gas prices, and an increase in our natural gas
    inventories attributable to a 13 percent
     year-over-year 
    increase in natural gas prices coupled with increased natural
    gas inventory levels, which reduced operating cash flow by
    $81.8 million. Operating cash flow was also adversely
    impacted by unfavorable movements in the indices used to value
    our natural gas marketing segment risk management assets and
    liabilities, which resulted in a net liability for the segment.
    Accordingly, under the terms of the associated derivative
    contracts, we were required to deposit $81.0 million into a
    margin account.

Year
    ended September 30, 2004  

Fiscal 2004 operating cash flows were favorably impacted by
    several items. Improved customer collections during fiscal 2004,
    compared with the prior year, resulted in a $62.2 million
    increase in operating cash flow. Further, cash used for natural
    gas inventories decreased by $33.8 million compared with
    the prior year. The decrease was attributable to lower
    injections of natural gas into storage, partially offset by
    higher prices. The reduction in the lag between the time period
    when we purchase our natural gas and the period in which we can
    include this cost in our gas rates improved operating cash flow
    by $65.7 million. Changes in cash held on deposit in margin
    accounts resulted in an increase in operating cash flow of
    $25.6 million. This account represents deposits recorded to
    collateralize certain of our financial derivatives purchased in
    support of our natural gas marketing activities. The favorable
    change was attributable to the fact that the fair value of
    financial instruments held by AEM represented a net asset
    position at September 30, 2004, which eliminated the need
    to place cash in margin accounts. Finally, other working capital
    and other changes improved operating cash flow by
    $33.9 million. These changes primarily related to various
    increases in deferred credits and other liabilities, other
    current liabilities and income taxes payable partially offset by
    lower deferred income tax expense as compared with the prior
    year.

Cash
    flows from investing activities   

During the last three years, a substantial portion of our cash
    resources was used to fund acquisitions and growth projects, our
    ongoing construction program and improvements to information
    systems. Our ongoing construction program enables us to provide
    natural gas distribution services to our existing customer base,
    to expand our natural gas distribution services into new
    markets, to enhance the integrity of our pipelines and, more
    recently, to expand our intrastate pipeline network. In
    executing our current rate strategy, we are directing
    discretionary capital spending to jurisdictions that permit us
    to earn a return on our investment timely. Currently, our
    Mid-Tex, Louisiana, Mississippi and West Texas utility divisions
    and our Atmos Pipeline   Texas Division have rate
    designs that provide the opportunity to include in their rate
    base approved capital costs on a periodic basis without being
    required to file a rate case.

For the year ended September 30, 2006, we incurred
    $425.3 million for capital expenditures compared with
    $333.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2005
    and $190.3 million for the year ended

53

Table of Contents   

September 30, 2004. The increase in capital expenditures in
    fiscal 2006 primarily reflects increased spending associated
    with our Dallas/Fort Worth Metroplex North Side Loop
    project and other pipeline expansion projects in our Atmos
    Pipeline   Texas Division, which were completed during
    the fiscal 2006 third quarter. Increased capital spending in our
    Mid-Tex Division for various projects also contributed to the
    increase in our capital expenditures.

Our cash used for investing activities for the year ended
    September 30, 2005 reflects the $1.9 billion cash paid
    for the TXU Gas acquisition including related transaction costs
    and expenses. Cash flow from investing activities for the year
    ended September 30, 2004 reflects the receipt of
    $27.9 million from the sale of our limited and general
    partnership interests in USP and Heritage Propane Partners, L.P.
    and from the sale of a building.

Cash
    flows from financing activities   

For the year ended September 30, 2006, our financing
    activities provided $155.3 million in cash compared with
    $1.7 billion and $80.4 million provided for the years
    ended September 30, 2005 and 2004. Our significant
    financing activities for the years ended September 30,
    2006, 2005 and 2004 are summarized as follows:

In October 2004, we sold 16.1 million shares of common
    stock, including the underwriters  exercise of their
    overallotment option of 2.1 million shares, under a shelf
    registration statement declared effective in September 2004,
    generating net proceeds of $382 million. Additionally, we
    issued $1.39 billion of senior unsecured debt under our
    shelf registration statement with an initial weighted average
    effective interest rate on these notes of 4.76 percent. The
    net proceeds from these issuances, combined with the net
    proceeds from our July 2004 common stock offering were used to
    finance the acquisition of our Mid-Tex and Atmos
    Pipeline   Texas divisions and settle Treasury lock
    agreements, into which we entered to fix the Treasury yield
    component of the interest cost of financing associated with
    $875 million of the $1.39 billion long-term debt we
    issued in October 2004 to fund the acquisition.

During the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, we
    increased our borrowings under our short-term facilities by
    $237.6 million and $144.8 million whereas during the
    year ended September 30, 2004, we repaid a net
    $118.6 million under our short-term facilities. Net
    borrowings under our short-term facilities during fiscal 2006
    and 2005 reflect the impact of seasonal natural gas purchases
    and the effect of higher natural gas prices than in prior years.

We repaid $3.3 million of long-term debt during the year
    ended September 30, 2006 compared with $103.4 million
    during the year ended September 30, 2005 and
    $9.7 million during the year ended September 30, 2004.
    Fiscal 2005 payments reflected the repayment of
    $72.5 million of our First Mortgage Bonds. In connection
    with this repayment we paid a $25.0 million make-whole
    premium in accordance with the terms of the agreements and
    accrued interest of approximately $1.0 million. In
    accordance with regulatory requirements, the premium has been
    deferred and will be recognized over the remaining original
    lives of the First Mortgage Bonds that were repaid. The early
    repayment of these bonds resulted in interest savings of
    $4.8 million and $1.3 million in fiscal 2006 and 2005.

During the year ended September 30, 2006, we paid
    $102.3 million in cash dividends compared with dividend
    payments of $99.0 million and $66.7 million for the
    years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004. The increase in
    dividends paid over the prior year reflects an increase in the
    dividend rate from $1.24 per share during the year ended
    September 30, 2005 to $1.26 per share during the year
    ended September 30, 2006 combined with new share issuances
    under our various plans.

During the year ended September 30, 2006 we issued
    0.9 million shares of common stock which generated net
    proceeds of $23.3 million. In addition, we granted
    0.3 million shares of common stock under

54

Table of Contents   

our 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan to directors, officers and
    other participants in the plan. The following table shows the
    number of shares issued for the years ended September 30,
    2006, 2005 and 2004:

Shelf
    Registration  

In December 2001, we filed a registration statement with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to issue, from time to
    time, up to $600.0 million in new common stock
     and/or  debt.
    The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC in
    January 2002. In July 2004, we sold 9.9 million shares of
    our common stock, including the underwriters  exercise of
    their overallotment option, which exhausted the remaining
    availability under this registration statement.

In August 2004, we filed a registration statement with the SEC
    to issue, from time to time, up to $2.2 billion in new
    common stock
     and/or  debt,
    which became effective in September 2004. In October 2004, we
    sold 16.1 million common shares, including the
    underwriters  exercise of their overallotment option of
    2.1 million shares, under this registration statement,
    generating net proceeds of $382.5 million before other
    offering costs. Additionally, we issued $1.39 billion of
    senior unsecured debt under the registration statement. After
    issuing the debt and equity in October 2004, we had
    approximately $401.5 million of availability remaining
    under this registration statement. However, we are no longer
    allowed to issue securities under that registration statement by
    applicable state regulatory commissions since we are in the
    process of securing their approval to issue a total of
    $900 million in securities under a new shelf registration
    statement, including the remaining $401.5 million of
    capacity carried over from the currently effective registration
    statement. We intend to file this new registration statement
    with the SEC in the near future.

Credit
    Facilities  

As of September 30, 2006, we maintained three short-term
    committed credit facilities totaling $918 million. We also
    maintain one uncommitted credit facility totaling
    $25 million and, through AEM, a second uncommitted credit
    facility that can provide up to $580 million. Borrowings
    under our uncommitted credit facilities are made on a
     when-and-as-needed 
    basis at the discretion of the banks. Our credit capacity and
    the amount of unused borrowing capacity are affected by the
    seasonal nature of the natural gas business and our short-term
    borrowing requirements, which are typically highest during
    colder winter months. Our working capital needs can vary
    significantly due to changes in the price of natural gas charged
    by suppliers and the increased gas supplies required to meet
    customers  needs during periods of cold weather. Our cash
    needs for working capital have increased substantially as a
    result of the significant increase in the price of natural gas.

In October 2005, our $600 million
     364-day 
    committed credit facility expired and was replaced with a
    $600 million three-year revolving credit facility. In
    addition, in November 2005, we entered into a new
    $300 million
     364-day 
    revolving credit facility with substantially the same terms as
    our $600 million credit facility.

55

Table of Contents   

In November 2006, we renewed our $300 million
     364-day 
    revolving credit facility and were in the process of replacing
    our three-year $600 million facility with a five-year
    $600 million revolving credit facility. Both facilities are
    being renewed with substantially the same terms as their
    predecessor facilities.

In April 2006, our $18 million committed unsecured credit
    facility was renewed for one year with no material changes to
    its terms and pricing. At September 30, 2006,
    $3.1 million was outstanding under this facility.

As of September 30, 2006, the amount available to us under
    these credit facilities, net of outstanding letters of credit,
    was $609.0 million. We believe these credit facilities,
    combined with our operating cash flows will be sufficient to
    fund our increased working capital needs. These facilities are
    described in further detail in Note 6 to the consolidated
    financial statements.

In November 2005, AEM amended its uncommitted demand working
    capital credit facility to increase the amount of credit
    available from $250 million to a maximum of
    $580 million. In March 2006, AEM amended and extended this
    uncommitted demand working capital credit facility to March
    2007. At September 30, 2006, there were no borrowings
    outstanding under this facility.

Credit
    Ratings  

Our credit ratings directly affect our ability to obtain
    short-term and long-term financing, in addition to the cost of
    such financing. In determining our credit ratings, the rating
    agencies consider a number of quantitative factors, including
    debt to total capitalization, operating cash flow relative to
    outstanding debt, operating cash flow coverage of interest and
    pension liabilities and funding status. In addition, the rating
    agencies consider qualitative factors such as consistency of our
    earnings over time, the quality of our management and business
    strategy, the risks associated with our utility and nonutility
    businesses and the regulatory structures that govern our rates
    in the states where we operate.

Our debt is rated by three rating agencies: Standard &
    Poor s Corporation (S&P), Moody s Investors
    Services, Inc. (Moody s) and Fitch Ratings, Ltd. (Fitch).
    Our current debt ratings are all considered investment grade and
    are as follows:

S&P 

Moody s 

Fitch 

Long-term debt

BBB

Baa3

BBB+

Commercial paper

A-2

P-3

F-2

Currently, with respect to our unsecured senior long-term debt,
    S&P, Moody s and Fitch maintain their stable outlook.
    None of our ratings is currently under review.

A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold
    securities. The highest investment grade credit rating for
    S&P is AAA, Moody s is Aaa and Fitch is AAA. The lowest
    investment grade credit rating for S&P is BBB ,
    Moody s is Baa3 and Fitch is BBB . Our credit ratings
    may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies,
    and each rating should be evaluated independent of any other
    rating. There can be no assurance that a rating will remain in
    effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be
    lowered, or withdrawn entirely, by a rating agency if, in its
    judgment, circumstances so warrant.

Debt
    Covenants  

We were in compliance with all of our debt covenants as of
    September 30, 2006. If we do not comply with our debt
    covenants, we may be required to repay our outstanding balances
    on demand, provide additional collateral or take other
    corrective actions. Our two public debt indentures relating to
    our senior notes and debentures, as well as both our revolving
    credit agreements, each contain a default provision that is
    triggered if outstanding indebtedness arising out of any other
    credit agreements in amounts ranging from in excess of
    $15 million to in excess of $100 million becomes due
    by acceleration or is not paid at maturity. In addition,
    AEM s credit agreement contains a cross-default provision
    whereby AEM would be in default if it defaults on other
    indebtedness, as defined, by at least $250 thousand in the
    aggregate. Additionally, this agreement

56

Table of Contents   

contains a provision that would limit the amount of credit
    available if Atmos were downgraded below an S&P rating of
    BBB and a Moody s rating of Baa2.

Except as described above, we have no triggering events in our
    debt instruments that are tied to changes in specified credit
    ratings or stock price, nor have we entered into any
    transactions that would require us to issue equity based on our
    credit rating or other triggering events.

Additional information concerning our debt covenants and how we
    complied with those covenants is included in Note 6 to the
    consolidated financial statements.

Contractual
    Obligations and Commercial Commitments  

The following tables provide information about contractual
    obligations and commercial commitments at September 30,
    2006.

(1)  

See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. 

(2)  

Interest charges were calculated using the stated rate for each
    debt issuance, or in the case of floating rate debt, the rate
    that was in effect as of September 30, 2006. 

(3)  

Gas purchase commitments were determined based upon
    contractually determined volumes at prices estimated based upon
    the index specified in the contract, adjusted for estimated
    basis differentials and contractual discounts as of
    September 30, 2006. 

(4)  

See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. 

(5)  

Represents third party contractual demand fees for contracted
    storage in our natural gas marketing and other utility segments.
    Contractual demand fees for contracted storage for our utility
    segment are excluded as these costs are fully recoverable
    through our purchase gas adjustment mechanisms. 

(6)  

Represents third party contractual demand fees for
    transportation in our natural gas marketing segment. 

(7)  

Represents liabilities for natural gas commodity derivative
    contracts that were valued as of September 30, 2006. The
    ultimate settlement amounts of these remaining liabilities are
    unknown because they are subject to continuing market risk until
    the derivative contracts are settled. 

(8)  

Represents expected contributions to our postretirement benefit
    plans. 

AEM has commitments to purchase physical quantities of natural
    gas under contracts indexed to the forward NYMEX strip or fixed
    price contracts. At September 30, 2006, AEM was committed
    to purchase 61.7 Bcf within one year, 51.2 Bcf between
    one to three years and 0.8 Bcf after three years under
    indexed

57

Table of Contents   

contracts. AEM was committed to purchase 2.4 Bcf within one
    year and 0.1 Bcf within one to three years under fixed
    price contracts with prices ranging from $3.40 to
    $12.00 per Mcf.

With the exception of our Mid-Tex Division, our utility segment
    maintains supply contracts with several vendors that generally
    cover a period of up to one year. Commitments for estimated base
    gas volumes are established under these contracts on a monthly
    basis at contractually negotiated prices. Commitments for
    incremental daily purchases are made as necessary during the
    month in accordance with the terms of the individual contract.
    Our Mid-Tex Division maintains long-term supply contracts to
    ensure a reliable source of gas for our customers in its service
    area which obligate it to purchase specified volumes at market
    prices. The estimated commitments under these contract terms as
    of September 30, 2006 are reflected in the table above.

In May 2006, we announced plans to form a joint venture with a
    local natural gas producer to construct a natural gas gathering
    system in Eastern Kentucky that will originate in Floyd County,
    Kentucky, and extend north approximately 60 miles to
    interconnect with the Tennessee Gas Pipeline in Carter County,
    Kentucky. Tennessee Gas Pipeline s interstate system
    delivers natural gas to the northeastern United States,
    including New York City and Boston. Referred to as the Straight
    Creek Project, the new system is expected to relieve severe gas
    gathering and transportation constraints that historically have
    burdened natural gas producers in the area and should improve
    delivery reliability to natural gas customers. More than a dozen
    other producers have signed memoranda of understanding to commit
    gas volumes to the new system and to enter into agreements on
    commercially reasonable terms.

As currently designed, the project is expected to cost between
    $75 million to $80 million. In October 2006, FERC
    issued a declaratory order finding that the Straight Creek
    Project will be exempt from FERC jurisdiction. Upon receiving
    all required regulatory approvals, construction is expected to
    begin in the first half of fiscal 2007, with operations expected
    to begin in fiscal 2008. Final terms of the joint venture are
    still being negotiated; however, we anticipate that we will have
    the ability to consolidate the joint venture.

Risk
    Management Activities  

We conduct risk management activities through our utility,
    natural gas marketing and pipeline and storage segments. In our
    utility segment, we use a combination of storage, fixed physical
    contracts and fixed financial contracts to reduce our exposure
    to unusually large winter-period gas price increases. In our
    natural gas marketing and pipeline and storage segments, we
    manage our exposure to the risk of natural gas price changes and
    lock in our gross profit margin through a combination of storage
    and financial derivatives, including futures,
     over-the-counter 
    and exchange-traded options and swap contracts with
    counterparties. To the extent our inventory cost and actual
    sales and actual purchases do not correlate with the changes in
    the market indices we use in our hedges, we could experience
    ineffectiveness or the hedges may no longer meet the accounting
    requirements for hedge accounting, resulting in the derivatives
    being treated as mark to market instruments through earnings.

In our natural gas marketing segment, hedge ineffectiveness
    resulting from natural gas market price differences between the
    locations of the hedged inventory and the delivery location
    specified in the hedge instruments (referred to as basis
    ineffectiveness) for both fair value and cash flow hedges was an
    unrealized gain of approximately $35.5 million for the year
    ended September 30, 2006 and an unrealized loss of
    approximately $5.4 million and $1.1 million for the
    years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004. Actual hedge
    ineffectiveness resulting from the timing of settlement of
    physical contracts and the settlement of the derivative
    instruments (referred to as timing ineffectiveness) resulted in
    an unrealized gain of approximately $4.4 million and
    $0.5 million for the years ended September 30, 2006
    and 2004 and an unrealized loss of approximately
    $2.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2005.

In our pipeline and storage segment, timing ineffectiveness
    resulted in an unrealized loss of approximately
    $4.7 million and less than $0.1 million for the years
    ended September 30, 2006 and 2004 and an unrealized gain of
    approximately $5.2 million for the year ended
    September 30, 2005.

Finally, during fiscal 2004, we entered into four Treasury lock
    agreements to fix the Treasury yield component of the interest
    cost of financing associated with the anticipated issuance of
    $875 million of long-

58

Table of Contents   

term debt. These Treasury lock agreements were settled in
    October 2004 with a net $43.8 million payment to the
    counterparties. Approximately $11.6 million of the
    $43.8 million obligation is being recognized as a component
    of interest expense over a five year period from the date of
    settlement, and the remaining amount, approximately
    $32.2 million, is being recognized as a component of
    interest expense over a ten year period from the date of
    settlement. Our risk management activities and related
    accounting treatment are described in further detail in
    Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.

We record our derivatives as a component of risk management
    assets and liabilities, which are classified as current or
    noncurrent based upon the anticipated settlement date of the
    underlying derivative. Substantially all of our derivative
    financial instruments are valued using external market quotes
    and indices. The following table shows the components of the
    change in fair value of our utility and natural gas marketing
    derivative contract activities for the year ended
    September 30, 2006 (in thousands):

The fair value of our utility and natural gas marketing
    derivative contracts at September 30, 2006, is segregated
    below by time period and fair value source.

Storage
    and Hedging Outlook   

AEM participates in transactions in which it seeks to find and
    profit from pricing differences that occur over time. AEM
    purchases physical natural gas and then sells financial
    contracts at favorable prices to lock in a gross profit margin.
    AEM is able to capture gross profit margin through the arbitrage
    of pricing differences in various locations and by recognizing
    pricing differences that occur over time.

Natural gas inventory is marked to market at the end of each
    month with changes in fair value recognized as unrealized gains
    and losses in the period of change. Effective October 1,
    2005, we changed the index used to value our physical natural
    gas from Inside FERC to Gas Daily to better reflect the prices
    of our physical commodity. This change had no material impact to
    the Company on the date of adoption. Derivatives associated with
    our natural gas inventory, which are designated as fair value
    hedges, are marked to market each month based upon the NYMEX
    price with changes in fair value recognized as unrealized gains
    and losses in the period of change. The changes in the
    difference between the indices used to mark to market our
    physical inventory (Gas Daily) and the related fair-value hedge
    (NYMEX) are reported as a component of revenue and can result in
    volatility in our reported net income. Over time, gains and
    losses on the sale of storage gas inventory will be offset by
    gains and losses on the fair-value hedges; therefore, the
    economic gross profit AEM captured in the original transaction
    remains essentially unchanged.

59

Table of Contents   

AEM continually manages its positions to enhance the future
    economic profit it captured in the original transaction.
    Therefore, AEM may change its scheduled injection and withdrawal
    plans from one time period to another based on market conditions
    or adjust the amount of storage capacity it holds on a
    discretionary basis in an effort to achieve this objective. AEM
    monitors the impacts of these profit optimization efforts by
    estimating the gross profit that it captured and expects to
    collect through the purchase and sale of physical natural gas
    and the associated financial derivatives, which we refer to as
    the economic gross profit. The economic gross profit, combined
    with the effect of unrealized gains or losses recognized in the
    financial statements in prior periods, provides a measure of the
    gross profit that could occur in future periods if AEM s
    optimization efforts are fully successful. The following table
    presents AEM s economic gross profit and its potential
    gross profit for the last three fiscal years.

As of September 30, 2006, based upon AEM s derivatives
    position and inventory withdrawal schedule, the economic gross
    profit was $60.0 million. In addition, $16.0 million
    of net unrealized losses were recorded in the financial
    statements as of September 30, 2006. Therefore, the
    potential gross profit was $76.0 million. This potential
    gross profit amount will not result in an equal increase in
    future net income as AEM will incur additional storage and other
    operational expenses to realize this amount.

The economic gross profit is based upon planned injection and
    withdrawal schedules, and the realization of the economic gross
    profit is contingent upon the execution of this plan, weather
    and other execution factors. Since AEM actively manages and
    optimizes its portfolio to enhance the future profitability of
    its storage position, it may change its scheduled injection and
    withdrawal plans from one time period to another based on market
    conditions. Therefore, we cannot assure that the economic gross
    profit or the potential gross profit calculated as of
    September 30, 2006 will be fully realized in the future or
    in what time period. Further, if we experience operational or
    other issues which limit our ability to optimally manage our
    stored gas positions, our earnings could be adversely impacted.

Pension
    and Postretirement Benefits Obligations  

Net
    Periodic Pension and Postretirement Benefit Costs   

For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, our total net
    periodic pension and other benefits costs was
    $50.0 million, compared with $36.4 million and
    $26.1 million for the years ended September 30, 2005
    and 2004. All of these costs are recoverable through our gas
    utility rates; however, a portion of these costs is capitalized
    into our utility rate base. The remaining costs are recorded as
    a component of operation and maintenance expense.

The increase in total net periodic pension and other benefits
    cost during fiscal 2006 compared with the prior year primarily
    reflects changes in assumptions we made during our annual
    pension plan valuation completed June 30, 2005. The
    discount rate used to compute the present value of a plan s
    liabilities generally is based on rates of high-grade corporate
    bonds with maturities similar to the average period over which
    the benefits will be paid. In the period leading up to our
    June 30, 2005 measurement date, these interest rates were
    declining, which resulted in a 125 basis point reduction in
    our discount rate to 5.0 percent. This reduction increased
    the present value of our plan liabilities and associated
    expenses. Additionally, we reduced the expected return on our
    pension plan assets by 25 basis points to 8.5 percent,
    which also increased our pension and postretirement benefit cost.

The increase in total net periodic pension and other benefits
    cost during fiscal 2005 compared with fiscal 2004 primarily
    reflects an increase in our service cost associated with the
    increase in the number of employees

60

Table of Contents   

covered by our plans due to the TXU Gas acquisition. Although we
    did not assume the existing employee benefit liabilities or
    plans of TXU Gas, for purposes of determining our annual pension
    cost we agreed to give the transitioned employees credit for
    years of TXU Gas service under our pension plan. With respect to
    our postretirement medical plan, we received a credit of
    $18.9 million against the purchase price to permit us to
    provide partial past service credits for retiree medical
    benefits under our retiree medical plan. The $18.9 million
    credit approximated the actuarially determined present value of
    the accumulated benefits related to the past service of the
    transferred employees on the acquisition date.

In addition to the increased number of employees covered by the
    plans, we changed the assumptions used to determine our fiscal
    2005 benefit costs, which resulted in an increase in our net
    periodic pension and postretirement costs. We increased the
    discount rate by 25 basis points and we reduced our
    expected return on our pension plan assets by 25 basis
    points. These assumption changes decreased the service cost and
    interest cost and reduced the expected return components of our
    pension and postretirement benefits costs.

Pension
    and Postretirement Plan Funding   

Generally, our funding policy is to contribute annually an
    amount in accordance with the requirements of the Employee
    Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. However, additional
    voluntary contributions are made from time to time as considered
    necessary. Contributions are intended to provide not only for
    benefits attributed to service to date but also for those
    expected to be earned in the future.

During fiscal 2006, we voluntarily contributed $2.9 million
    to the Atmos Energy Corporation Retirement Plan for Mississippi
    Valley Gas Union Employees. The current year contribution
    achieved a desired level of funding by satisfying the minimum
    funding requirements while maximizing the tax deductible
    contribution for this plan for plan year 2005. During fiscal
    2005, we voluntarily contributed $3.0 million to the Master
    Trust to maintain the level of funding we desire relative to our
    accumulated benefit obligation. We made the contribution because
    declining high yield corporate bond yields in the period leading
    up to our June 30, 2005 measurement date resulted in an
    increase in the present value of our plan liabilities.

We contributed $10.9 million, $10.0 million and
    $13.8 million to our postretirement benefits plans for the
    years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004. The
    contributions represent the portion of the postretirement costs
    we are responsible for under the terms of our plan and minimum
    funding required by our regulators.

Outlook
    for Fiscal 2007   

High grade corporate bond yields increased in the period leading
    up to our June 30, 2006 measurement date. Therefore, we
    increased the discount rate for determining our fiscal 2007
    pension and benefit costs by 130 basis points to
    6.3 percent. However, we reduced the expected return on our
    pension plan assets by 25 basis points to
    8.25 percent. The effect of these assumption changes,
    coupled with the effects of updating our annual valuation should
    not significantly affect our fiscal 2007 net pension and
    postretirement costs compared to fiscal 2006.

We are not required to make a minimum funding contribution to
    our pension plans during fiscal 2007; nor, at this time, do we
    intend to make voluntary contributions during 2007. However, we
    anticipate contributing approximately $11 million to our
    postretirement medical plans during fiscal 2007.

The projected pension liability, future funding requirements and
    the amount of pension expense or income recognized for the Plan
    are subject to change, depending upon the actuarial value of
    plan assets and the determination of future benefit obligations
    as of each subsequent actuarial calculation date. These amounts
    are impacted by actual investment returns, changes in interest
    rates and changes in the demographic composition of the
    participants in the plan.

61

Table of Contents   

RECENT
    ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS  

Recent accounting developments and their impact on our financial
    position, results of operations and cash flows are described in
    Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

We are exposed to risks associated with commodity prices and
    interest rates. Commodity price risk is the potential loss that
    we may incur as a result of changes in the fair value of a
    particular instrument or commodity. Interest-rate risk results
    from our portfolio of debt and equity instruments that we issue
    to provide financing and liquidity for our business activities.

We conduct risk management activities through both our utility
    and natural gas marketing segments. In our utility segment, we
    use a combination of storage, fixed physical contracts and fixed
    financial contracts to protect us and our customers against
    unusually large winter period gas price increases. In our
    natural gas marketing segment, we manage our exposure to the
    risk of natural gas price changes and lock in our gross profit
    margin through a combination of storage and financial
    derivatives including futures,
     over-the-counter 
    and exchange-traded options and swap contracts with
    counterparties. Our risk management activities and related
    accounting treatment are described in further detail in
    Note 5 to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
    Additionally, our earnings are affected by changes in short-term
    interest rates as a result of our issuance of short-term
    commercial paper, the issuance of floating rate debt in October
    2004 and our other short-term borrowings.

Commodity
    Price Risk  

Utility
    segment   

We purchase natural gas for our utility operations.
    Substantially all of the cost of gas purchased for utility
    operations is recovered from our customers through purchased gas
    adjustment mechanisms. However, our utility operations have
    commodity price risk exposure to fluctuations in spot natural
    gas prices related to purchases for sales to our non-regulated
    energy services customers at fixed prices.

For our utility segment, we use a sensitivity analysis to
    estimate commodity price risk. For purposes of this analysis, we
    estimate commodity price risk by applying a hypothetical
    10 percent increase in the portion of our gas cost related
    to fixed-price non-regulated sales. Based on these projected
    non-regulated gas sales, a hypothetical 10 percent increase
    in fixed prices based upon the September 30, 2006 three
    month market strip, would increase our purchased gas cost by
    approximately $2.3 million in fiscal 2007.

Natural
    gas marketing and pipeline and storage segments   

Our natural gas marketing segment is also exposed to risks
    associated with changes in the market price of natural gas. For
    our natural gas marketing segment, we use a sensitivity analysis
    to estimate commodity price risk. For purposes of this analysis,
    we estimate commodity price risk by applying a $0.50 change in
    the forward NYMEX price to our net open position (including
    existing storage and related financial contracts) at the end of
    each period. Based on AEH s net open position (including
    existing storage and related financial contracts) at
    September 30, 2006 of 0.2 Bcf, a $0.50 change in the
    forward NYMEX price would have had less than a $0.1 million
    impact on our consolidated net income.

Changes in the difference between the indices used to mark to
    market our physical inventory (Gas Daily) and the related
    fair-value hedge (NYMEX) can result in volatility in our
    reported net income; but, over time, gains and losses on the
    sale of storage gas inventory will be offset by gains and losses
    on the fair-value hedges. Based upon our net physical position
    at September 30, 2006 and assuming our hedges would still
    qualify as highly effective, a $0.50 change in the difference
    between the Gas Daily and NYMEX indices would impact our
    reported net income by approximately $5.0 million.

62

Table of Contents   

Additionally, these changes could cause us to recognize a risk
    management liability, which would require us to place cash into
    an escrow account to collateralize this liability position.
    This, in turn, would reduce the amount of cash we would have on
    hand to fund our working capital needs. Because we recognized
    risk management liabilities as of September 30, 2006, we
    placed $35.6 million in escrow to collateralize these
    liabilities.

Interest
    Rate Risk  

Our earnings are exposed to changes in short-term interest rates
    associated with our short-term commercial paper program and
    other short-term borrowings. We use a sensitivity analysis to
    estimate our short-term interest rate risk. For purposes of this
    analysis, we estimate our short-term interest rate risk as the
    difference between our actual interest expense for the period
    and estimated interest expense for the period assuming a
    hypothetical average one percent increase in the interest rates
    associated with our short-term borrowings. Had interest rates
    associated with our short-term borrowings increased by an
    average of one percent, our interest expense would have
    increased by approximately $3.6 million during 2006.

We also assess market risk for our fixed and floating rate
    long-term obligations. We estimate market risk for our long-term
    obligations as the potential increase in fair value resulting
    from a hypothetical one percent decrease in interest rates
    associated with these debt instruments. Fair value is estimated
    using a discounted cash flow analysis. Assuming this one percent
    hypothetical decrease, the fair value of our long-term
    obligations would have increased by approximately
    $143.3 million.

As of September 30, 2006, we were not engaged in other
    activities that would cause exposure to the risk of material
    earnings or cash flow loss due to changes in interest rates or
    market commodity prices.

63

Table of Contents   

ITEM 8.    

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

Index to financial statements and financial statement schedule:

All other financial statement schedules are omitted because the
    required information is not present, or not present in amounts
    sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the
    information required is included in the financial statements and
    accompanying notes thereto.

64

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON 
     CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

The Board of Directors

Atmos Energy Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Atmos Energy Corporation as of September 30, 2006 and 2005,
    and the related consolidated statements of income,
    shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended September 30, 2006. Our audits
    also included the financial statement schedule listed in the
    Index at Item 8. These financial statements and schedule
    are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
    statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Atmos Energy Corporation at
    September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the consolidated results
    of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years
    in the period ended September 30, 2006, in conformity with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our
    opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
    considered in relation to the financial statements taken as a
    whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the financial
    information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    effectiveness of Atmos Energy Corporation s internal
    control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006,
    based on criteria established in Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
    November 20, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Dallas, Texas

November 20, 2006

65

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS   

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

66

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME   

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

67

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY   

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

68

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

69

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

1.    

Nature of
    Business  

Atmos Energy Corporation ( Atmos  or  the
    Company ) and its subsidiaries are engaged primarily in the
    natural gas utility business as well as certain nonutility
    businesses. Through our natural gas utility business, we
    distribute natural gas through sales and transportation
    arrangements to approximately 3.2 million residential,
    commercial, public-authority and industrial customers through
    our seven regulated natural gas utility divisions, in the
    service areas described below:

Division 

Service Area 

Atmos Energy Colorado-Kansas
    Division

Colorado, Kansas,
    Missouri (2) 

Atmos Energy Kentucky
    Division (1) 

Kentucky

Atmos Energy Louisiana Division

Louisiana

Atmos Energy Mid-States
    Division (1) 

Georgia (2) ,
    Illinois (2) ,
    Iowa (2) ,
    Missouri (2) ,
    Tennessee,
    Virginia (2) 

Atmos Energy Mid-Tex Division

Texas, including the
    Dallas/Fort Worth metropolitan area

Atmos Energy Mississippi Division

Mississippi

Atmos Energy West Texas Division

West Texas

(1)  

Effective October 1, 2006, the Kentucky and Mid-States
    Divisions were combined. 

(2)  

Denotes locations where we have more limited service areas. 

In addition, we transport natural gas for others through our
    distribution system. Our utility business is subject to federal
    and state regulation
     and/or 
    regulation by local authorities in each of the states in which
    the utility divisions operate. Our shared-services division is
    located in Dallas, Texas, and our customer support centers are
    located in Amarillo and Waco, Texas.

Our nonutility businesses operate in 22 states and include
    our natural gas marketing operations, our pipeline and storage
    operations and our other nonutility operations. These operations
    are either organized under or managed by Atmos Energy Holdings,
    Inc. (AEH), which is wholly-owned by the Company.

Our natural gas marketing operations are managed by Atmos Energy
    Marketing, LLC (AEM), which is wholly-owned by AEH. AEM provides
    a variety of natural gas management services to municipalities,
    natural gas utility systems and industrial natural gas
    customers, primarily in the southeastern and midwestern states
    and to our Kentucky, Louisiana and Mid-States divisions. These
    services consist primarily of furnishing natural gas supplies at
    fixed and market-based prices, contract negotiation and
    administration, load forecasting, gas storage acquisition and
    management services, transportation services, peaking sales and
    balancing services, capacity utilization strategies and gas
    price hedging through the use of derivative instruments.

Our pipeline and storage operations consist of the operations of
    our Atmos Pipeline   Texas Division, a division of
    Atmos Energy Corporation, and of Atmos Pipeline and Storage, LLC
    (APS), which is wholly-owned by AEH. The Atmos
    Pipeline   Texas Division transports natural gas to
    the Atmos Energy Mid-Tex Division, transports natural gas to
    third parties and manages five underground storage reservoirs in
    Texas. Through APS, we own or have an interest in underground
    storage fields in Kentucky and Louisiana. We also use these
    storage facilities to reduce the need to contract for additional
    pipeline capacity to meet customer demand during peak periods.

70

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Our other nonutility businesses consist primarily of the
    operations of Atmos Energy Services (AES), LLC and Atmos Power
    Systems, Inc., which are wholly-owned by AEH. Through AES, we
    provide natural gas management services to our utility
    operations, other than the Mid-Tex Division. These services,
    which began in April 2004, include aggregating and purchasing
    gas supply, arranging transportation and storage logistics and
    ultimately delivering the gas to our utility service areas at
    competitive prices. Through Atmos Power Systems, Inc., we have
    constructed electric peaking power-generating plants and
    associated facilities and have entered into agreements to lease
    these plants.

Prior to January 2004, United Cities Propane Gas, Inc., a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of AEH, owned an approximate
    19 percent membership interest in U.S. Propane L.P.
    (USP), a joint venture formed in February 2000 with three other
    utility companies. Through our ownership in USP, we owned an
    approximate five percent indirect interest in Heritage Propane
    Partners, L.P. (Heritage). During 2004, we sold our interest in
    USP and Heritage. We received cash proceeds of
    $26.6 million and recorded a pretax book gain of
    $5.9 million with these transactions. We no longer have an
    interest in the propane industry.

2.    

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies  

Principles of consolidation    The accompanying
    consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Atmos
    Energy Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All
    material intercompany transactions have been eliminated.

Use of estimates    The preparation of financial
    statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States requires management to make
    estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
    assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. The most significant
    estimates include the allowance for doubtful accounts, legal and
    environmental accruals, insurance accruals, pension and
    postretirement obligations, deferred income taxes, asset
    retirement obligation, impairment of long-lived assets, risk
    management and trading activities and the valuation of goodwill,
    indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets.
    Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Regulation    Our utility operations are subject
    to regulation with respect to rates, service, maintenance of
    accounting records and various other matters by the respective
    regulatory authorities in the states in which we operate. Our
    accounting policies recognize the financial effects of the
    ratemaking and accounting practices and policies of the various
    regulatory commissions. Regulated utility operations are
    accounted for in accordance with SFAS 71,  Accounting for
    the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation.  This statement
    requires cost-based, rate-regulated entities that meet certain
    criteria to reflect the authorized recovery of costs due to
    regulatory decisions in their financial statements. As a result,
    certain costs are permitted to be capitalized rather than
    expensed because they can be recovered through rates.

71

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

We record regulatory assets as a component of other current
    assets and deferred charges and other assets for costs that have
    been deferred for which future recovery through customer rates
    is considered probable. Regulatory liabilities are recorded
    either on the face of the balance sheet or as a component of
    current liabilities, deferred income taxes or deferred credits
    and other liabilities when it is probable that revenues will be
    reduced for amounts that will be credited to customers through
    the ratemaking process. Significant regulatory assets and
    liabilities as of September 30, 2006 and 2005 included the
    following:

Currently authorized rates do not include a return on certain of
    our merger and integration costs; however, we recover the
    amortization of these costs. Merger and integration costs, net,
    are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over estimated
    useful lives ranging up to 20 years. During the fiscal
    years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we
    recognized $0.5 million, $2.3 million and
    $8.2 million in amortization expense related to these
    costs. Environmental costs have been deferred to be included in
    future rate filings in accordance with rulings received from
    various regulatory commissions.

As of September 30, 2006, our Mid-States Division had open
    rate cases in its Missouri and Tennessee service areas seeking
    rate increases of $3.4 million in each jurisdiction. The
    Tennessee rate was settled in October 2006 and resulted in a
    $6.1 million reduction in future annual revenues. We
    anticipate that the Missouri rate case will be finalized in
    February 2007. In addition, during 2006 our Mid-Tex Division
    filed a system-wide case seeking incremental annual revenues of
    approximately $60 million and several rate design changes.
    A ruling on this filing is anticipated by April 2007.

Revenue recognition    Sales of natural gas to
    our utility customers are billed on a monthly cycle basis;
    however, the billing cycle periods for certain classes of
    customers do not necessarily coincide with accounting periods
    used for financial reporting purposes. We follow the revenue
    accrual method of accounting for utility segment revenues
    whereby revenues applicable to gas delivered to customers, but
    not yet billed under the cycle billing method, are estimated and
    accrued and the related costs are charged to expense. Revenue is
    recognized in our pipeline and storage segment as the services
    are provided.

On occasion, we are permitted to implement new rates that have
    not been formally approved by our regulators and are subject to
    refund. As permitted by SFAS No. 71, we recognize this
    revenue and establish a

72

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

reserve for amounts that could be refunded based on our
    experience for the jurisdiction in which the rates were
    implemented.

Rates established by regulatory authorities are adjusted for
    increases and decreases in our purchased gas cost through
    purchased gas adjustment mechanisms. Purchased gas adjustment
    mechanisms provide gas utility companies a method of recovering
    purchased gas costs on an ongoing basis without filing a rate
    case to address all of the utility s non-gas costs. These
    mechanisms are commonly utilized when regulatory authorities
    recognize a particular type of expense, such as purchased gas
    costs, that (i) is subject to significant price
    fluctuations compared to the utility s other costs,
    (ii) represents a large component of the utility s
    cost of service and (iii) is generally outside the control
    of the gas utility. There is no gross profit generated through
    purchased gas adjustments, but they do provide a
     dollar-for-dollar 
    offset to increases or decreases in utility gas costs. Although
    substantially all of our utility sales to our customers
    fluctuate with the cost of gas that we purchase, utility gross
    profit is generally not affected by fluctuations in the cost of
    gas due to the purchased gas adjustment mechanism. The effects
    of these purchased gas adjustment mechanisms are recorded as
    deferred gas costs on our balance sheet.

Energy trading contracts resulting in the delivery of a
    commodity where we are the principal in the transaction are
    recorded as natural gas marketing sales or purchases at the time
    of physical delivery. Realized gains and losses from the
    settlement of financial instruments that do not result in
    physical delivery related to our natural gas marketing energy
    trading contracts and unrealized gains and losses from changes
    in the market value of open contracts are included as a
    component of natural gas marketing revenues. For the years ended
    September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we included unrealized
    gains (losses) on open contracts of $17.2 million,
    ($26.0) million and ($2.8) million as a component of
    natural gas marketing revenues.

Cash and cash equivalents    We consider all
    highly liquid investments with an initial or remaining maturity
    of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Cash held on deposit in margin account    Cash
    held on deposit in margin account consists of deposits made to
    collateralize certain financial derivatives purchased in support
    of our risk management activities. Under the terms of these
    derivative contracts, when the fair value of financial
    instruments held represents a net liability position, we are
    required to deposit cash into a margin account.

Accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful
    accounts    Accounts receivable consist of natural
    gas sales to residential, commercial, industrial, municipal,
    agricultural and other customers. For the majority of our
    receivables, we establish an allowance for doubtful accounts
    based on our collections experience. On certain other
    receivables where we are aware of a specific customer s
    inability or reluctance to pay, we record an allowance for
    doubtful accounts against amounts due to reduce the net
    receivable balance to the amount we reasonably expect to
    collect. However, if circumstances change, our estimate of the
    recoverability of accounts receivable could be different.
    Circumstances which could affect our estimates include, but are
    not limited to, customer credit issues, the level of natural gas
    prices, customer deposits and general economic conditions.
    Accounts are written off once they are deemed to be
    uncollectible.

Gas stored underground    Our gas stored
    underground is comprised of natural gas injected into storage to
    support the winter season withdrawals for our utility operations
    and natural gas held by our natural gas marketing and other
    nonutility subsidiaries to conduct their operations. The average
    cost method is used for all our utility divisions, except for
    certain jurisdictions in the Mid-States Division, where it is
    valued on the
     first-in 
    first-out method basis, in accordance with regulatory
    requirements. The average gas cost method is also used for our
    natural gas marketing segment and our Atmos Pipeline  
    Texas Division. Our Natural Gas Marketing segment utilizes the
    average cost method; however, most of this inventory is hedged
    and is therefore marked to market at the end of each month. Gas
    in storage that is retained as cushion gas to maintain reservoir
    pressure is classified as property, plant and equipment and is
    valued at cost.

73

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Utility property, plant and equipment    Utility
    property, plant and equipment is stated at original cost, net of
    contributions in aid of construction. The cost of additions
    includes direct construction costs, payroll related costs
    (taxes, pensions and other fringe benefits), administrative and
    general costs and an allowance for funds used during
    construction. The allowance for funds used during construction
    represents the estimated cost of funds used to finance the
    construction of major projects and are capitalized in the rate
    base for ratemaking purposes when the completed projects are
    placed in service. Interest expense of $3.6 million,
    $2.5 million and $1.2 million was capitalized in 2006,
    2005 and 2004.

Major renewals, including replacement pipe, and betterments that
    are recoverable under our regulatory rate base are capitalized
    while the costs of maintenance and repairs that are not
    recoverable through rates are charged to expense as incurred.
    The costs of large projects are accumulated in construction in
    progress until the project is completed. When the project is
    completed, tested and placed in service, the balance is
    transferred to the utility plant in service account included in
    the rate base and depreciation begins.

Utility property, plant and equipment is depreciated at various
    rates on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives
    of the assets. These rates are approved by our regulatory
    commissions and are comprised of two components, one based on
    average service life and one based on cost of removal.
    Accordingly, we recognize our cost of removal expense as a
    component of depreciation expense. The related cost of removal
    accrual is reflected as a regulatory liability on the
    consolidated balance sheet. At the time property, plant and
    equipment is retired, removal expenses less salvage, are charged
    to the regulatory cost of removal accrual. The composite
    depreciation rate was 3.9 percent, 4.0 percent and
    3.8 percent for the years ended September 30, 2006,
    2005 and 2004.

Nonutility property, plant and equipment   
    Nonutility property, plant and equipment is stated at cost.
    Depreciation is generally computed on the straight-line method
    for financial reporting purposes based upon estimated useful
    lives ranging from 8 to 38 years.

Asset retirement obligations    SFAS 143,
     Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations  and
    FIN 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
    Obligations , which became effective for us
    September 30, 2006, require that we record a liability at
    fair value for an asset retirement obligation when the legal
    obligation to retire the asset has been incurred with an
    offsetting increase to the carrying value of the related asset.
    Accretion of the asset retirement obligation due to the passage
    of time is recorded as an operating expense.

As of September 30, 2006, we adopted the provisions of
    FIN 47. As a result of adopting FIN 47, we recorded an
    asset retirement obligation of $15.1 million associated
    with our distribution system. As retirement costs incurred by
    the distribution system are recovered from utility customers,
    this liability had previously been captured in our regulatory
    cost of removal liability. As a result of adopting FIN 47,
    we reclassified the $15.1 million from regulatory cost of
    removal liability to asset retirement obligation. In addition,
    we recorded $4.8 million of asset retirement costs that
    will be depreciated over the remaining life of the underlying
    associated asset lives. We believe we have a legal obligation to
    retire our storage wells. However, we have not recognized an
    asset retirement obligation associated with our storage wells
    because there is not sufficient industry history to reasonably
    estimate the fair value of this obligation. The adoption of
    FIN 47 did not have an impact to our results operations as
    the cost of removal expense has previously been recorded as
    described above. In accordance with the transition guidance of
    FIN 47, prior periods have not been restated; however, the
    asset retirement obligation as of September 30, 2005 would
    have been $14.6 million.

Impairment of long-lived assets    We
    periodically evaluate whether events or circumstances have
    occurred that indicate that other long-lived assets may not be
    recoverable or that the remaining useful life may warrant
    revision. When such events or circumstances are present, we
    assess the recoverability of long-lived assets by determining
    whether the carrying value will be recovered through the
    expected future cash flows. In the event the sum of the expected
    future cash flows resulting from the use of the asset is less
    than the carrying

74

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

value of the asset, an impairment loss equal to the excess of
    the asset s carrying value over its fair value is recorded.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we determined that, as
    a result of declining irrigation sales primarily associated with
    our agricultural customers  shift from gas-powered pumps to
    electric pumps, the West Texas Division s irrigation assets
    would not be able to generate sufficient future cash flows from
    operations to recover the net investment in these assets.
    Therefore, we recorded a $22.9 million charge to impairment
    to write off the entire net book value. We will continue to
    operate these assets until we determine a plan for these assets
    as we are obligated to provide natural gas services to certain
    customers served by these assets.

Goodwill and intangible assets    We annually
    evaluate our goodwill balances for impairment during our second
    fiscal quarter or more frequently as impairment indicators
    arise. We use a present value technique based on discounted cash
    flows to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. These
    calculations are dependent on several subjective factors
    including the timing of future cash flows, future growth rates
    and the discount rate. An impairment charge is recognized if the
    carrying value of a reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its
    fair value.

Intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives of
    10 years. These assets are reviewed for impairment as
    impairment indicators arise. When such events or circumstances
    are present, we assess the recoverability of long-lived assets
    by determining whether the carrying value will be recovered
    through the expected future cash flows. In the event the sum of
    the expected future cash flows resulting from the use of the
    asset is less than the carrying value of the asset, an
    impairment loss equal to the excess of the asset s carrying
    value over its fair value is recorded. To date, no impairment
    has been recognized.

Marketable securities    As of
    September 30, 2006 and 2005, all of our marketable
    securities were classified as
     available-for-sale 
    securities based upon the criteria of SFAS 115,
     Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
    Securities.  In accordance with that standard, these
    securities are reported at market value with unrealized gains
    and losses shown as a component of accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss). We regularly evaluate the
    performance of these investments on a fund by fund basis for
    impairment, taking into consideration the fund s purpose,
    volatility and current returns. If a determination is made that
    a decline in fair value is other than temporary, the related
    fund is written down to its estimated fair value.

Derivatives and hedging activities    Our
    derivative and hedging activities are tailored to the segment to
    which they relate. We record our derivatives as a component of
    risk management assets and liabilities, which are classified as
    current or noncurrent other assets or liabilities based upon the
    anticipated settlement date of the underlying derivative. Our
    determination of the fair value of these derivative financial
    instruments reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive
    or pay to terminate or close the contracts at the reporting
    date, taking into account the current unrealized gains and
    losses on open contracts. In our determination of fair value, we
    consider various factors, including closing exchange and
     over-the-counter 
    quotations, time value and volatility factors underlying the
    contracts. Effective October 1, 2005, we changed the index
    used to value our physical natural gas from Inside FERC to Gas
    Daily to better reflect the prices of our physical commodity.
    This change did not have a material impact on our financial
    position on the date of adoption.

Utility
    Segment   

In our utility segment, we use a combination of storage and
    financial derivatives to partially insulate us and our natural
    gas utility customers against gas price volatility during the
    winter heating season. The financial derivatives we use in our
    utility segment are accounted for under the
     mark-to-market 
    method pursuant to SFAS 133,  Accounting for Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities.  Changes in the valuation
    of these derivatives primarily result from changes in the
    valuation of the portfolio of contracts, maturity and settlement

75

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

of contracts and newly originated transactions. However, because
    the gains or losses of financial derivatives used in our utility
    segment will ultimately be recovered through our rates, current
    period changes in the assets and liabilities from these risk
    management activities are recorded as a component of deferred
    gas costs in accordance with SFAS 71. Accordingly, there is
    no earnings impact to our utility segment as a result of the use
    of financial derivatives. The changes in the assets and
    liabilities from risk management activities are recognized in
    purchased gas cost in the income statement when the related gain
    or loss is recovered through our rates.

Natural
    Gas Marketing Segment   

Our natural gas marketing risk management activities are
    conducted through AEM. AEM is exposed to risks associated with
    changes in the market price of natural gas, and we manage our
    exposure to the risk of natural gas price changes through a
    combination of storage and financial derivatives, including
    futures,
     over-the-counter 
    and exchange-traded options and swap contracts with
    counterparties. Option contracts provide the right, but not the
    requirement, to buy or sell the commodity at a fixed price. Swap
    contracts require receipt of payment for the commodity based on
    the difference between a fixed price and the market price on the
    settlement date. The use of these contracts is subject to our
    risk management policies, which are monitored for compliance
    daily.

We participate in transactions in which we combine the natural
    gas commodity and transportation costs to minimize our costs
    incurred to serve our customers. Additionally, we engage in
    natural gas storage transactions in which we seek to find and
    profit from pricing differences that occur over time. We
    purchase physical natural gas and then sell financial contracts
    at favorable prices to lock in gross profit margins. Through the
    use of transportation and storage services and derivatives, we
    are able to capture gross profit margin through the arbitrage of
    pricing differences in various locations and by recognizing
    pricing differences that occur over time.

Under SFAS 133, natural gas inventory is designated as the
    hedged item in a fair-value hedge and is marked to market at the
    end of each month with changes in fair value recognized as
    unrealized gains and losses in revenue in the period of change.
    Effective October 1, 2005, we changed the index used to
    value our physical natural gas from Inside FERC to Gas Daily to
    better reflect the prices of our physical commodity. This change
    had no material impact on our financial position on the date of
    adoption. Costs to store the gas are recognized in the period
    the costs are incurred. We recognize revenue and the carrying
    value of the inventory as an associated purchased gas cost in
    our consolidated statement of income when we sell the gas and
    deliver it out of the storage facility.

Derivatives associated with our natural gas inventory are marked
    to market each month based upon the NYMEX price with changes in
    fair value recognized as unrealized gains and losses in the
    period of change. The difference in the indices used to mark to
    market our physical inventory (Gas Daily) and the related
    fair-value hedge (NYMEX) is reported as a component of revenue
    and can result in volatility in our reported net income. Over
    time, gains and losses on the sale of storage gas inventory will
    be offset by gains and losses on the fair-value hedges,
    resulting in the realization of the economic gross profit margin
    we anticipated at the time we structured the original
    transaction. In addition, we continually manage our positions to
    optimize value as market conditions and other circumstances
    change. When evaluating effectiveness, we exclude the
    differential between the spot price used to value our physical
    inventory and the forward price used to value the financial
    hedges designated against our physical inventory.

Similar to our inventory position, we attempt to mitigate
    substantially all of the commodity price risk associated with
    our fixed-price contracts with minimum volume requirements
    through the use of various offsetting derivatives. Prior to
    April 1, 2004, these derivatives were not designated as
    hedges under SFAS 133 because they naturally locked in the
    economic gross profit margin at the time we entered into the
    contract. The fixed-price forward and offsetting derivative
    contracts were marked to market each month with changes in

76

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

fair value recognized as unrealized gains and losses recorded in
    revenue in our consolidated statement of income. The unrealized
    gains and losses were realized as a component of revenue in the
    period in which we fulfilled the requirements of the fixed-price
    contract and the derivatives were settled. To the extent that
    the unrealized gains and losses of the fixed-price forward
    contracts and the offsetting derivatives did not offset exactly,
    our earnings experienced some volatility. At delivery, the gains
    and losses on the fixed-price contracts were offset by gains and
    losses on the derivatives, resulting in the realization of the
    economic gross profit margin we anticipated at the time we
    structured the original transaction.

Effective April 2004, we elected to treat our fixed-price
    forward contracts as normal purchases and sales. As a result, we
    ceased marking the fixed-price forward contracts to market. We
    have designated the offsetting derivative contracts as cash flow
    hedges of anticipated transactions. As a result of this change,
    unrealized gains and losses on these open derivative contracts
    are now recorded as a component of accumulated other
    comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings as a
    component of revenue when the hedged volumes are sold. In
    addition, we continually manage our positions to optimize value
    as market conditions and other circumstances change.

Additionally, we utilize storage swaps and futures to capture
    additional storage arbitrage opportunities that arise subsequent
    to the execution of the original fair value hedge associated
    with our physical natural gas inventory, basis swaps to insulate
    and protect the economic value of our fixed price and storage
    books and various over-the-counter and exchange-traded options.
    Although the purpose of these instruments is to either reduce
    basis or other risks or lock in arbitrage opportunities, these
    derivative instruments have not been designated as hedges.
    Accordingly, these derivative instruments are recorded at fair
    value with all changes in fair value included in revenue of our
    natural gas marketing segment.

In our natural gas marketing segment, hedge ineffectiveness
    arising from natural gas market price differences between the
    locations of the hedged inventory and the delivery location
    specified in the hedge instruments (referred to as basis
    ineffectiveness) for our fair value hedges resulted in an
    unrealized gain of $15.5 million for the year ended
    September 30, 2006 compared with an unrealized loss of
    $1.7 million and $0.6 million for the years ended
    September 30, 2005 and 2004. Basis ineffectiveness for our
    cash flow hedges resulted in an unrealized gain of approximately
    $20.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2006
    compared with an unrealized loss of approximately
    $3.7 million and $0.5 million for the years ended
    September 30, 2005 and 2004. Hedge ineffectiveness arising
    from the timing of the settlement of physical contracts and the
    settlement of the related fair value hedge resulted in an
    unrealized gain of approximately $4.4 million and
    $0.5 million for the years ended September 30, 2006
    and 2004 and an unrealized loss of approximately
    $2.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2005.
    The increased ineffectiveness is due to the high level of market
    volatility experienced in 2006.

Additionally, we have a policy which allows for the use of
    master netting agreements with significant counterparties that
    allow us to offset gains and losses arising from derivative
    instruments that may be settled in cash and/or gains and losses
    arising from derivative instruments that may be settled with the
    physical commodity. Assets and liabilities from risk management
    activities, as well as accounts receivable and payable, reflect
    the master netting agreements in place.

Pipeline
    and Storage Segment   

Similar to AEM, Atmos Pipeline and Storage, LLC has designated
    its natural gas inventory as the hedged item in a fair-value
    hedge. The inventory is marked to market at the end of each
    month based upon Gas Daily index. Costs to store the gas are
    recognized in the period the costs are incurred. We recognize
    revenue and the carrying value of the inventory as an associated
    purchased gas cost in our consolidated statement of income when
    we sell the gas.

77

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Derivatives associated with our natural gas inventory are marked
    to market each month based upon the NYMEX price with changes in
    fair value recognized as unrealized gains and losses in the
    period of change. The difference in the indices used to mark to
    market our physical inventory (Gas Daily) and the related
    fair-value hedge (NYMEX) is reported as a component of revenue
    and can result in volatility in our reported net income. Over
    time, gains and losses on the sale of natural gas inventory
    should be offset by gains and losses on the fair-value hedges;
    resulting in the realization of the economic gross profit margin
    we anticipated at the time we structured the original
    transaction.

In our pipeline and storage segment, actual hedge
    ineffectiveness arising from the timing of settlement of
    physical contracts and the settlement of the derivative
    instruments resulted in a loss of approximately
    $4.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2006, a
    gain of approximately $5.2 million for the year ended
    September 30, 2005 and a loss of less than
    $0.1 million for the year ended September 30, 2004.

Treasury
    Activities   

During fiscal 2004, we entered into four Treasury lock
    agreements to fix the Treasury yield component of the interest
    cost of financing associated with the anticipated issuance of
    $875 million of long-term debt. We designated these
    Treasury lock agreements as cash flow hedges of an anticipated
    transaction. Accordingly, to the extent effective, unrealized
    gains and losses associated with the Treasury lock agreements
    are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
    income. These Treasury lock agreements were settled in October
    2004 with a net $43.8 million payment to the
    counterparties. Approximately $11.6 million of the
    $43.8 million obligation is being recognized as a component
    of interest expense over a five year period from the date of
    settlement, and the remaining amount, approximately
    $32.2 million, is being recognized as a component of
    interest expense over a ten year period from the date of
    settlement.

The fair value of our financial derivatives is determined
    through a combination of prices actively quoted on national
    exchanges, prices provided by other external sources and prices
    based on models and other valuation methods. Changes in the
    valuation of our financial derivatives primarily result from
    changes in market prices, the valuation of the portfolio of our
    contracts, maturity and settlement of these contracts and newly
    originated transactions, each of which directly affect the
    estimated fair value of our derivatives. We believe the market
    prices and models used to value these derivatives represent the
    best information available with respect to closing exchange and
     over-the-counter 
    quotations, time value and volatility factors underlying the
    contracts. Values are adjusted to reflect the potential impact
    of an orderly liquidation of our positions over a reasonable
    period of time under present market conditions.

Pension and other postretirement plans   
    Pension and other postretirement plan costs and liabilities are
    determined on an actuarial basis and are affected by numerous
    assumptions and estimates including the market value of plan
    assets, estimates of the expected return on plan assets, assumed
    discount rates and current demographic and actuarial mortality
    data. We review the estimates and assumptions underlying our
    pension and other postretirement plan costs and liabilities
    annually based upon a June 30 measurement date. The assumed
    discount rate and the expected return are the assumptions that
    generally have the most significant impact on our pension costs
    and liabilities. The assumed discount rate, the assumed health
    care cost trend rate and assumed rates of retirement generally
    have the most significant impact on our postretirement plan
    costs and liabilities.

The discount rate is utilized principally in calculating the
    actuarial present value of our pension and postretirement
    obligation and net pension and postretirement cost. When
    establishing our discount rate, we consider high quality
    corporate bond rates based on Moody s Aa bond index,
    changes in those rates from the prior year and the implied
    discount rate that is derived from matching our projected
    benefit disbursements with a high quality corporate bond spot
    rate curve.

78

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The expected long-term rate of return on assets is utilized in
    calculating the expected return on plan assets component of the
    annual pension and postretirement plan cost. We estimate the
    expected return on plan assets by evaluating expected bond
    returns, equity risk premiums, asset allocations, the effects of
    active plan management, the impact of periodic plan asset
    rebalancing and historical performance. We also consider the
    guidance from our investment advisors in making final
    determination of our expected rate of return on assets. To the
    extent the actual rate of return on assets realized over the
    course of a year is greater than or less than the assumed rate,
    that year s annual pension or postretirement plan cost is
    not affected. Rather, this gain or loss reduces or increases
    future pension or postretirement plan cost over a period of
    approximately ten to twelve years.

We estimate the assumed health care cost trend rate used in
    determining our postretirement net cost based upon our actual
    health care cost experience, the effects of recently enacted
    legislation and general economic conditions. Our assumed rate of
    retirement is estimated based upon our annual review of our
    participant census information as of the measurement date.

Income taxes    Income taxes are provided based
    on the liability method, which results in income tax assets and
    liabilities arising from temporary differences. Temporary
    differences are differences between the tax bases of assets and
    liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial
    statements that will result in taxable or deductible amounts in
    future years. The liability method requires the effect of tax
    rate changes on current and accumulated deferred income taxes to
    be reflected in the period in which the rate change was enacted.
    The liability method also requires that deferred tax assets be
    reduced by a valuation allowance unless it is more likely than
    not that the assets will be realized.

Stock-based compensation plans    We maintain
    the 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan that provides for the granting
    of incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock
    appreciation rights, bonus stock, time-lapse restricted stock,
    performance-based restricted stock units and stock units to
    officers, division presidents and other key employees.
    Non-employee directors are also eligible to receive stock-based
    compensation under the 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The
    objectives of this plan include attracting and retaining the
    best personnel, providing for additional performance incentives
    and promoting our success by providing employees with the
    opportunity to acquire our common stock.

On October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS 123
    (revised),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS 123(R)). This
    standard revises SFAS 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation  and supersedes Accounting Principles Board
    (APB) Opinion 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
    Employees.  Under SFAS 123(R), the Company is required
    to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange
    for stock options and similar awards based on the grant-date
    fair value of the award and recognize this cost in the income
    statement over the period during which an employee is required
    to provide service in exchange for the award.

We adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective
    method. Under this transition method, stock-based compensation
    expense for the year ended September 30, 2006 included:
    (i) compensation expense for all stock-based compensation
    awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of
    October 1, 2005, based on the grant-date fair value
    estimated in accordance with the original provisions of
    SFAS 123; and (ii) compensation expense for all
    stock-based compensation awards granted subsequent to
    October 1, 2005, based on the grant-date fair value
    estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R).
    We recognize compensation expense on a straight-line basis over
    the requisite service period of the award. The impact of
    adoption on total stock-based compensation expense included in
    our statement of income for the year ended September 30,
    2006 was $0.4 million and was recorded as a component of
    operation and maintenance expense. In accordance with the
    modified prospective method, financial results for prior periods
    have not been restated.

Prior to October 1, 2005, we accounted for these plans
    under the intrinsic-value method described in
    APB Opinion 25, as permitted by SFAS 123. Under
    this method, no compensation cost for stock options was
    recognized for stock-option awards granted at or above
    fair-market value. Awards of restricted stock were

79

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

valued at the market price of the Company s common stock on
    the date of grant. The unearned compensation was amortized as a
    component of operation and maintenance expense over the vesting
    period of the restricted stock.

Total stock-based compensation expense for the year ended
    September 30, 2006 was $9.4 million as compared to
    $3.9 million and $1.6 million for the years ended
    September 30, 2005 and 2004. Had compensation expense for
    our stock-based awards been recognized as prescribed by
    SFAS 123, our net income and earnings per share for the
    years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 would have been
    impacted as shown in the following table:

Accumulated other comprehensive loss   
    Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, as of
    September 30, 2006 and 2005 consisted of the following
    unrealized gains (losses):

Recent accounting pronouncements    In February
    2006, the FASB issued SFAS 155,  Accounting for Certain
    Hybrid Financial Instruments , which amends SFAS 133,
     Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
     and SFAS 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing
    of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities. 
    SFAS 155 (a) permits fair value remeasurement for any
    hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative
    that otherwise would require bifurcation, (b) clarifies
    which interest-only strips and principal-only strips are not
    subject to the requirements of SFAS 133,
    (c) establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in
    securitized financial assets to identify interests that are
    freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial
    instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring
    bifurcation, (d) clarifies that concentrations of credit
    risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives
    and (e) amends SFAS 140 to eliminate the prohibition
    on a qualifying special-purpose entity from holding a derivative
    financial instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest
    other than another derivative financial instrument.
    SFAS 155 is effective for

80

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

all financial instruments acquired or issued by us after
    October 1, 2006 and the adoption of this standard is not
    expected to have a material impact on our financial position,
    results of operations and cash flows.

In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 156,  Accounting for
    Servicing Financial Assets , which amends SFAS 140,
     Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
    and Extinguishments of Liabilities.  SFAS 156
    (a) revises guidance on when a servicing asset and
    servicing liability should be recognized, (b) requires all
    separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities
    to be initially measured at fair value, if practicable,
    (c) permits an entity to choose to measure servicing assets
    and servicing liabilities under the amortization method or fair
    value measurement method, (d) at initial adoption, permits
    a one-time reclassification of
     available-for-sale 
    securities to trading securities by entities with recognized
    servicing rights, without calling into question the treatment of
    other
     available-for-sale 
    securities under SFAS 115, provided that the
     available-for-sale 
    securities are identified as offsetting the exposure to changes
    in the fair value of servicing assets or liabilities that the
    servicer elects to subsequently measure at fair value and
    (e) requires separate presentation of servicing assets and
    servicing liabilities subsequently measured at fair value in the
    statement of financial position and additional footnote
    disclosure. We will be required to apply the provisions of
    SFAS 156 beginning October 1, 2006 and such
    application is expected not to have a material impact on our
    financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

In June 2006, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) ratified
    EITF Issue
     No. 06-3, 
     How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to
    Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income
    Statement (That Is, Gross versus Net Presentation).  The EITF
    reached a consensus that the scope of this issue includes any
    tax assessed by a governmental authority that is directly
    imposed on a revenue-producing transaction between a seller and
    a customer and may include sales, use, value added and some
    excise taxes. The EITF also reached a consensus that entities
    may present these taxes on either a gross or net basis. If the
    taxes are significant, an entity should disclose its policy of
    presenting taxes and the amounts of taxes that are recognized on
    a gross basis in interim and annual financial statements. We
    will be required to apply the provisions of
     EITF 06-3 
    beginning January 1, 2007. We are currently evaluating the
    impact this standard may have on our results of operations.

In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation
    of FASB Statement No. 109  (FIN 48). FIN 48
    clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes by
    establishing standards for measurement and recognition in
    financial statements of positions taken by an entity in its
    income tax returns. This interpretation also provides guidance
    on de-recognition of income tax assets and liabilities,
    classification of current and deferred income tax assets and
    liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties, accounting
    for income taxes in interim periods and income tax disclosures.
    We will be required to apply the provisions of FIN 48
    beginning October 1, 2007. We are currently evaluating the
    impact this standard may have on our financial position, results
    of operations and cash flows.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157,  Fair Value
    Measurements.  SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes
    a framework for measuring fair value and enhances disclosures
    about fair value measurements required under other accounting
    pronouncements but does not change existing guidance as to
    whether or not an instrument is carried at fair value. We will
    be required to apply the provisions of SFAS 157 beginning
    October 1, 2008. We are currently evaluating the impact
    this standard may have on our financial position, results of
    operations and cash flows.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 158,
     Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements
    No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R).  The new standard makes a
    significant change to the existing rules by requiring
    recognition in the balance sheet of the overfunded or
    underfunded positions of defined benefit pension and other
    postretirement plans, along with a corresponding noncash,
    after-tax adjustment to stockholders  equity. Additionally,
    this standard requires that the measurement date must correspond
    to the fiscal year end balance sheet date. This standard does
    not change how net periodic pension and postretirement cost or
    the projected benefit obligation is determined. The balance
    sheet recognition

81

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

guidance of this standard will be effective for fiscal 2007 and
    the measurement date provisions of this guidance can be adopted
    as late as fiscal 2008 for our company.

3.    

Acquisitions  

TXU
    Gas Company   

In October 2004, we completed our acquisition of the natural gas
    distribution and pipeline operations of TXU Gas Company. The
    purchase price for the TXU Gas acquisition was approximately
    $1.9 billion (after closing adjustments and before
    transaction costs and expenses), which we paid in cash. We did
    not assume any indebtedness of TXU Gas in connection with the
    acquisition. The purchase was accounted for as an asset
    purchase. We funded the purchase price for the TXU Gas
    acquisition with approximately $235.7 million in net
    proceeds from our offering of approximately 9.9 million
    shares of common stock, which we completed in July 2004, and
    approximately $1.7 billion in net proceeds from our
    issuance in October 2004 of commercial paper backstopped by a
    senior unsecured revolving credit agreement, which we entered
    into in September 2004 to provide bridge financing for the TXU
    Gas acquisition. In October 2004, we paid off the outstanding
    commercial paper used to fund the acquisition through the
    issuance of senior unsecured notes in October 2004, which
    generated net proceeds of approximately $1.39 billion, and
    the sale of 16.1 million shares of common stock in October
    2004, which generated net proceeds of $381.6 million.

The following table summarizes the fair values of the assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed on October 1, 2004 (in
    thousands):

The sale of the TXU Gas operations was held through a
    competitive bid process. We believe the resulting goodwill is
    recoverable given the expected synergies we can achieve as a
    result of the TXU Gas acquisition. To that end, the TXU Gas
    acquisition significantly expands our existing utility
    operations in Texas. The North Texas operations of TXU Gas
    bridge our geographic operations between our existing utility
    operations in West Texas and Louisiana. TXU Gas s
    headquarters and service area are centered in Dallas, Texas,
    which is also the location of our corporate headquarters.
    Further, the addition of the regulated pipelines and storage
    operations in North Texas may create additional gas marketing
    and other opportunities for our non-regulated subsidiaries,
    which include gas marketing and storage operations. The goodwill
    generated in the acquisition is deductible for tax purposes.

At closing of the acquisition, TXU Gas and some of its
    affiliates entered into transitional services agreements with us
    to provide call center, meter reading, customer billing,
    collections, information reporting,

82

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

software, accounting, treasury, administrative and other
    services to the Mid-Tex Division. Some of these services were
    outsourced by TXU Gas to Capgemini Energy L.P. However, in
    November 2004, we entered into an agreement with Capgemini
    Energy L.P. whereby we assumed the operations of the Waco, Texas
    call center in April 2005 and purchased from Capgemini Energy
    L.P. all of the related call center assets in October 2005. The
    remaining transitional services agreements expired in September
    2005 and were not renewed as we in-sourced all of these
    functions, effective October 2005.

The table below reflects the unaudited pro forma results of the
    Company and TXU Gas for the year ended September 30, 2004
    as if the acquisition and related financing had taken place at
    the beginning of fiscal 2004 (in thousands, except per share
    data):

ComFurT
    Gas Inc.   

Effective March 2004, we completed the acquisition of the
    natural gas distribution assets of ComFurT Gas Inc., a
    privately-held natural gas utility and propane distributor based
    in Buena Vista, Colorado, for approximately $2.0 million in
    cash. This company served approximately 1,800 natural gas
    utility customers. The acquisition enabled us to expand our
    contiguous service area in our Colorado-Kansas division.
    Unaudited pro forma results of the Company and ComFurT have not
    been presented as the acquisition was not material to our
    financial position or results of operations.

4.    

Goodwill
    and Intangible Assets  

Goodwill and intangible assets were comprised of the following
    as of September 30, 2006 and 2005.

The following presents our goodwill balance allocated by segment
    and changes in the balance for the year ended September 30,
    2006:

(1)  

During the preparation of the fiscal 2006 tax provision, we
    adjusted certain deferred taxes recorded in connection with a
    fiscal 2001 and a fiscal 2004 acquisitions which resulted in an
    increase to goodwill and net deferred tax liabilities of
    $1.1 million. 

83

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Information regarding our intangible assets is included in the
    following table. As of September 30, 2006 and 2005, we had
    no indefinite-lived intangible assets.

The following table presents actual amortization expense
    recognized during 2006 and an estimate of future amortization
    expense based upon our intangible assets at September 30,
    2006.

5.    

Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities  

We conduct risk management activities through both our utility
    and natural gas marketing segments. These activities are
    described in more detail in Note 2. Also, as discussed in
    Note 2, we record our derivatives as a component of risk
    management assets and liabilities, which are classified as
    current or noncurrent based upon the anticipated settlement date
    of the underlying derivative. Our determination of the fair
    value of these derivative financial instruments reflects the
    estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate or
    close the contracts at the reporting date, taking into account
    the current unrealized gains and losses on open contracts. In
    our determination of fair value, we consider various factors,
    including closing exchange and
     over-the-counter 
    quotations, time value and volatility factors underlying the
    contracts. These risk management assets and liabilities are
    subject to continuing market risk until the underlying
    derivative contracts are settled.

84

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table shows the fair values of our risk management
    assets and liabilities by segment at September 30, 2006 and
    2005:

Utility
    Hedging Activities   

We use a combination of storage, fixed physical contracts and
    fixed financial contracts to partially insulate us and our
    customers against gas price volatility during the winter heating
    season. For the
     2005-2006 
    heating season, we hedged approximately 46 percent of our
    anticipated winter flowing gas requirements at a weighted
    average cost of approximately $9.06 per Mcf.

Our utility hedging activities also includes the fair value of
    our treasury lock agreements which are described in further
    detail below.

Nonutility
    Hedging Activities   

For the year ended September 30, 2006, the change in the
    deferred hedging position in accumulated other comprehensive
    loss was attributable to decreases in future commodity prices
    relative to the commodity prices stipulated in the derivative
    contracts totaling $51.0 million and the recognition of
    $6.2 million in net deferred hedging losses in net income
    when the derivatives matured according to their terms. The net
    deferred hedging losses associated with open cash flow hedges
    remain subject to market price fluctuations until the positions
    are either settled under the terms of the hedge contracts or
    terminated prior to settlement. Substantially all of the
    deferred hedging loss as of September 30, 2006 is expected
    to be recognized in net income within the next fiscal year.

Under our risk management policies, we seek to match our
    financial derivative positions to our physical storage positions
    as well as our expected current and future sales and purchase
    obligations to maintain no open positions at the end of each
    trading day. The determination of our net open position as of
    any day, however, requires us to make assumptions as to future
    circumstances, including the use of gas by our customers in
    relation to our anticipated storage and market positions.
    Because the price risk associated with any net open position at
    the end of each day may increase if the assumptions are not
    realized, we review these assumptions as part of our daily
    monitoring activities. We can also be affected by intraday
    fluctuations of gas prices, since the price of natural gas
    purchased or sold for future delivery earlier in the day may not
    be hedged until later in the day. At times, limited net open
    positions related to our existing and anticipated commitments
    may occur.

85

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

At the close of business on September 30, 2006, AEH had a
    net open position (including existing storage) of 0.2 Bcf.

Treasury
    Activities   

During fiscal 2004, we entered into four Treasury lock
    agreements to fix the Treasury yield component of the interest
    cost of financing associated with the-then anticipated issuance
    of $875 million of long-term debt subsequent to
    September 30, 2004. This long-term debt was issued in
    October 2004 and was used to repay a portion of the commercial
    paper used to fund the TXU Gas acquisition, as described in
    Note 3.

We designated these Treasury lock agreements as cash flow hedges
    of an anticipated transaction. Accordingly, to the extent
    effective, unrealized gains and losses associated with the
    Treasury locks were recorded as a component of accumulated other
    comprehensive loss. These Treasury lock agreements were settled
    in October 2004 with a net $43.8 million payment to the
    counterparties. Approximately $11.6 million of the
    $43.8 million obligation is being recognized as a component
    of interest expense over a five year period from the date of
    settlement, and the remaining amount, approximately
    $32.2 million, is being recognized as a component of
    interest expense over a ten year period from the date of
    settlement.

The following table presents our hedging transactions that were
    recorded to other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes
    during the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005.

(1)  

Utilizing an income tax rate of approximately 38 percent
    comprised of the effective rates in each taxing jurisdiction. 

The following amounts, net of deferred taxes, represent the
    expected recognition into earnings for our derivative
    instruments, based upon the fair values of these derivatives as
    of September 30, 2006:

86

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Long-term
    debt   

Long-term debt at September 30, 2006 and 2005 consisted of
    the following:

In December 2001, we filed a registration statement with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to issue, from time to
    time, up to $600.0 million in new common stock
     and/or  debt.
    The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC in
    January 2002. In July 2004, we sold 9.9 million shares of
    our common stock. We used the net proceeds from this offering,
    together with borrowings under a bridge financing facility to
    consummate the acquisition of TXU Gas operations and pay related
    fees and expenses. As a result of the offering, we exhausted the
    remaining availability under our December 2001 registration
    statement.

In August 2004, we filed another registration statement with the
    SEC, which was declared effective by the SEC in September 2004,
    under which we could issue, from time to time, up to
    $2.2 billion in new common stock
     and/or  debt.
    In October 2004, we sold 16.1 million common shares,
    including the underwriters  exercise of their overallotment
    option, under the new registration statement, generating net
    proceeds of $382.5 million before other offering costs.
    Additionally, we issued senior unsecured debt under the
    registration statement consisting of $400 million of
    4.00% Senior Notes due 2009, $500 million of
    4.95% Senior Notes due 2014, $200 million of
    5.95% Senior Notes due 2034 and $300 million of
    floating rate Senior Notes due 2007. The floating rate notes
    bear interest at a rate equal to the three-month LIBOR rate plus
    0.375 percent per year. At September 30, 2006, the
    interest rate on our floating rate debt was 5.882 percent.
    The net proceeds from the sale of these senior notes were
    $1.39 billion.

The net proceeds from the October 2004 common stock and senior
    notes offerings, combined with the net proceeds from our July
    2004 offering were used to pay off the $1.7 billion in
    outstanding commercial paper backstopped by a senior unsecured
    revolving credit agreement, which we entered into in September
    2004 for

87

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

bridge financing for the TXU Gas acquisition. Also, as a result
    of this refinancing in October 2004, we canceled the senior
    unsecured revolving credit facility. After issuing the debt and
    equity in October 2004 we had approximately $401.5 million
    in availability remaining under the registration statement.
    However, we are no longer allowed to issue securities under that
    registration statement by applicable state regulatory
    commissions. See further discussion in the Liquidity section of
    Management s Discussion and Analysis.

In June 2005, we elected to utilize excess cash to repay
    $72.5 million in principal on five series of our First
    Mortgage Bonds prior to their scheduled maturity. In connection
    with the repayment, we paid a $25.0 million make-whole
    premium in accordance with the terms of the agreements and
    accrued interest of approximately $1.0 million. In
    accordance with regulatory requirements, the premium has been
    deferred and will be recognized over the remaining original
    lives of the First Mortgage Bonds that were repaid.

Short-term
    debt   

At September 30, 2006 and 2005, there was
    $379.3 million and $129.9 million outstanding under
    our commercial paper program and $3.1 million and
    $14.9 million outstanding under our bank credit facilities.
    As of September 30, 2006, our commercial paper had
    maturities of less than three months, with interest rates
    ranging from 5.47 percent to 5.51 percent.

Credit
    facilities   

We maintain both committed and uncommitted credit facilities.
    Borrowings under our uncommitted credit facilities are made on a
     when-and-as-needed 
    basis at the discretion of the bank. Our credit capacity and the
    amount of unused borrowing capacity are affected by the seasonal
    nature of the natural gas business and our short-term borrowing
    requirements, which are typically highest during colder winter
    months. Our working capital needs can vary significantly due to
    changes in the price of natural gas charged by suppliers and the
    increased gas supplies required to meet customers  needs
    during periods of cold weather.

Committed
    credit facilities  

As of September 30, 2006, we had three short-term committed
    revolving credit facilities totaling $918 million. The
    first facility is a three-year unsecured facility, expiring
    October 2008, for $600 million that bears interest at a
    base rate or at the LIBOR rate for the applicable interest
    period, plus from 0.40 percent to 1.00 percent, based
    on the Company s credit ratings, and serves as a backup
    liquidity facility for our $600 million commercial paper
    program. At September 30, 2006, there was
    $379.3 million outstanding under our commercial paper
    program.

We have a second unsecured facility in place which is a
     364-day 
    facility for $300 million that bears interest at a base
    rate or the LIBOR rate for the applicable interest period, plus
    from 0.30 percent to 0.75 percent, based on the
    Company s credit ratings. This facility expired in November
    2006 and was renewed for one year with no material changes to
    its terms and pricing. At September 30, 2006, there were no
    borrowings under this facility.

We have a third unsecured facility in place for $18 million
    that bears interest at the Federal Funds rate plus
    0.5 percent. This facility expired in March 2006 and was
    renewed for one year with no material changes to its terms and
    pricing. At September 30, 2006, there was $3.1 million
    outstanding under this facility.

The availability of funds under our credit facilities is subject
    to conditions specified in the respective credit agreements, all
    of which we currently satisfy. These conditions include our
    compliance with financial covenants and the continued accuracy
    of representations and warranties contained in these agreements.
    We are required by the financial covenants in our revolving
    credit facilities to maintain, at the end of each fiscal
    quarter, a ratio of total debt to total capitalization of no
    greater than 70 percent. At September 30, 2006, our

88

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

total-debt-to-total-capitalization 
    ratio, as defined, was 63 percent. In addition, both the
    interest margin over the Eurodollar rate and the fee that we pay
    on unused amounts under our revolving credit facilities are
    subject to adjustment depending upon our credit ratings. The
    revolving credit facilities each contain the same limitation
    with respect to our total-debt to-total capitalization ratio.

Uncommitted
    credit facilities  

In November 2005, AEM amended its $250 million uncommitted
    demand working capital credit facility to increase the amount of
    credit available from $250 million to a maximum of
    $580 million. In March 2006, AEM amended and extended this
    uncommitted demand working capital credit facility to March 2007.

Borrowings under the amended credit facility can be made either
    as revolving loans or offshore rate loans. Revolving loan
    borrowings will bear interest at a floating rate equal to a base
    rate (defined as the higher of 0.50 percent per annum above
    the Federal Funds rate or the lender s prime rate) plus
    0.25 percent. Offshore rate loan borrowings will bear
    interest at a floating rate equal to a base rate based upon
    LIBOR for the applicable interest period, plus an applicable
    margin, ranging from 1.25 percent to 1.625 percent per
    annum, depending on the excess tangible net worth of AEM, as
    defined in the credit facility. Borrowings drawn down under
    letters of credit issued by the banks will bear interest at a
    floating rate equal to the base rate, as defined above, plus an
    applicable margin, which will range from 1.00 percent to
    1.875 percent per annum, depending on the excess tangible
    net worth of AEM and whether the letters of credit are
    swap-related standby letters of credit.

AEM is required by the financial covenants in the credit
    facility to maintain a maximum ratio of total liabilities to
    tangible net worth of 5 to 1, along with minimum levels of
    net working capital ranging from $20 million to
    $120 million. Additionally, AEM must maintain a minimum
    tangible net worth ranging from $21 million to
    $121 million, and must not have a maximum cumulative loss
    from March 30, 2005 exceeding $4 million to
    $23 million, depending on the total amount of borrowing
    elected from time to time by AEM. At September 30, 2006,
    AEM s ratio of total liabilities to tangible net worth, as
    defined, was 1.24 to 1.

At September 30, 2006, there were no borrowings outstanding
    under this credit facility. However, at September 30, 2006,
    AEM letters of credit totaling $96.1 million had been
    issued under the facility, which reduced the amount available by
    a corresponding amount. The amount available under this credit
    facility is also limited by various covenants, including
    covenants based on working capital. Under the most restrictive
    covenant, the amount available to AEM under this credit facility
    was $53.9 million at September 30, 2006. This line of
    credit is collateralized by substantially all of the assets of
    AEM and is guaranteed by AEH.

We also have an unsecured short-term uncommitted credit line for
    $25 million that is used for working capital and
     letter-of-credit 
    purposes. There were no borrowings under this uncommitted credit
    facility at September 30, 2006, but letters of credit
    reduced the amount available by $4.5 million. This
    uncommitted line is renewed or renegotiated at least annually
    with varying terms, and we pay no fee for the availability of
    the line. Borrowings under this line are made on a
     when-and-as-available 
    basis at the discretion of the bank.

AEH, the parent company of AEM, has a $100 million
    intercompany uncommitted demand credit facility with the Company
    which bears interest at the One Month LIBOR plus
    2.75 percent. This facility has been approved by our state
    regulators through December 31, 2006. At September 30,
    2006, there were no borrowings outstanding under this credit
    facility. In July 2006, this facility was renewed for one year
    with no material changes to its terms.

In addition, AEM has a $120 million intercompany
    uncommitted demand credit facility with AEH for its nonutility
    business which bears interest at the One Month LIBOR plus
    2.75 percent. Any outstanding amounts under this facility
    are subordinated to AEM s $580 million uncommitted
    demand credit facility described above. This facility is used to
    supplement AEM s $580 million credit facility. At
    September 30, 2006, there were no borrowings outstanding
    under this credit facility. In July 2006, this facility was
    renewed for one year with no material changes to its terms.

89

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Debt
    Covenants   

We have other covenants in addition to those described above.
    Our Series P First Mortgage Bonds contain provisions that
    allow us to prepay the outstanding balance in whole at any time,
    after November 2007, subject to a prepayment premium. The First
    Mortgage Bonds provide for certain cash flow requirements and
    restrictions on additional indebtedness, sale of assets and
    payment of dividends. Under the most restrictive of such
    covenants, cumulative cash dividends paid after
    December 31, 1985 may not exceed the sum of accumulated net
    income for periods after December 31, 1985 plus
    $9.0 million. At September 30, 2006 approximately
    $203.3 million of retained earnings was unrestricted with
    respect to the payment of dividends.

As of September 30, 2006, a portion of the Mid-States
    Division utility plant assets, totaling $394.2 million, was
    subject to a lien under the Indenture of Mortgage of the
    Series P First Mortgage Bonds.

We were in compliance with all of our debt covenants as of
    September 30, 2006. If we do not comply with our debt
    covenants, we may be required to repay our outstanding balances
    on demand, provide additional collateral or take other
    corrective actions. Our two public debt indentures relating to
    our senior notes and debentures, as well as both our revolving
    credit agreements, each contain a default provision that is
    triggered if outstanding indebtedness arising out of any other
    credit agreements in amounts ranging from in excess of
    $15 million to in excess of $100 million becomes due
    by acceleration or is not paid at maturity. In addition,
    AEM s credit agreement contains a cross-default provision
    whereby AEM would be in default if it defaults on other
    indebtedness, as defined, by at least $250 thousand in the
    aggregate. Additionally, this agreement contains a provision
    that would limit the amount of credit available if Atmos were
    downgraded below an S&P rating of BBB and a Moody s
    rating of Baa2.

Except as described above, we have no triggering events in our
    debt instruments that are tied to changes in specified credit
    ratings or stock price, nor have we entered into any
    transactions that would require us to issue equity based on our
    credit rating or other triggering events.

Based on the borrowing rates currently available to us for debt
    with similar terms and remaining average maturities, the fair
    value of long-term debt at September 30, 2006 and 2005 is
    estimated, using discounted cash flow analysis, to be
    $2,053.9 million and $2,078.3 million.

Maturities of long-term debt at September 30, 2006 were as
    follows (in thousands):

7.    

Shareholders 
    Equity  

Stock
    Issuances   

During the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 we
    issued 1,200,115, 17,739,691 and 11,323,925 shares of
    common stock.

In February 2005, our shareholders approved an amendment to our
    Articles of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized
    shares from 100 million to 200 million.

90

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

In October 2004, we completed the public offering of
    16.1 million shares of our common stock including the
    underwriters  exercise of their overallotment option of
    2.1 million shares. The offering was priced at $24.75 and
    generated net proceeds of approximately $381.6 million. We
    used the net proceeds from this offering, together with net
    proceeds of $235.7 million from a public offering we
    conducted in July 2004 and $1.39 billion received from the
    issuance of senior unsecured notes, to repay the
    $1.7 billion in outstanding commercial paper described in
    Note 3 and fund the remainder of the purchase price for the
    TXU Gas acquisition.

Shareholder
    Rights Plan   

In November 1997, our Board of Directors declared a dividend
    distribution of one right for each outstanding share of our
    common stock to shareholders of record at the close of business
    on May 10, 1998. Each right entitles the registered holder
    to purchase from us a one-tenth share of our common stock at a
    purchase price of $8.00 per share, subject to adjustment.
    The description and terms of the rights are set forth in a
    rights agreement between us and the rights agent.

Subject to exceptions specified in the rights agreement, the
    rights will separate from our common stock and a distribution
    date will occur upon the earlier of:

ten business days following a public announcement that a person
    or group of affiliated or associated persons has acquired, or
    obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of
    15 percent or more of the outstanding shares of our common
    stock, other than as a result of repurchases of stock by us or
    specified inadvertent actions by institutional or other
    shareholders;

ten business days, or such later date as our Board of Directors
    shall determine, following the commencement of a tender offer or
    exchange offer that would result in a person or group having
    acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership
    of 15 percent or more of the outstanding shares of our
    common stock; or

ten business days after our Board of Directors shall declare any
    person to be an adverse person within the meaning of the rights
    plan.

The rights expire on May 10, 2008, unless extended prior
    thereto by our board of directors or earlier if redeemed by us.
    The rights will not have any voting rights. The exercise price
    payable and the number of shares of our common stock or other
    securities or property issuable upon exercise of the rights are
    subject to adjustment from time to time to prevent dilution. We
    issue rights when we issue our common stock until the rights
    have separated from the common stock. After the rights have
    separated from the common stock, we may issue additional rights
    if the board of directors deems such issuance to be necessary or
    appropriate. The rights have  anti-takeover  effects
    and may cause substantial dilution to a person or entity that
    attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of
    directors except pursuant to an offer conditioned upon a
    substantial number of rights being acquired. The rights should
    not interfere with any merger or other business combination
    approved by our board of directors because, prior to the time
    that the rights become exercisable or transferable, we can
    redeem the rights at $.01 per right.

Other
    Agreements   

In connection with our Mississippi Valley Gas Company
    acquisition in December 2002, we issued shares of common stock
    under an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of
    1933, as amended. In the transaction, we entered into a
    registration rights agreement with the former stockholders of
    Mississippi Valley Gas Company that required us, on no more than
    two occasions, and with some limitations, to file a registration
    statement under the Securities Act within 60 days of their
    request for an offering designed to achieve a wide distribution
    of shares through underwriters selected by us. We also granted
    rights to these shareholders, subject to some limitations, to
    participate in future registered offerings of our securities
    until December 3, 2005. No

91

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

registration rights issued to the former stockholders of MVG, as
    discussed above, were exercised prior to the expiration of the
    registration rights agreement on December 3, 2005. The
    former stockholders of MVG also agreed, for up to five years
    from the closing of the acquisition, or until December 3,
    2007, and with some exceptions, not to sell or transfer shares
    representing more than 1 percent of our total outstanding
    voting securities to any person or group or any shares to a
    person or group who would hold more than 9.9 percent of our
    total outstanding voting securities after the sale or transfer.
    This restriction, and other agreed restrictions on the ability
    of these shareholders to acquire additional shares, participate
    in proxy solicitations or act to seek control, may be deemed to
    have an  anti-takeover  effect.

8.    

Stock and
    Other Compensation Plans  

Stock-Based
    Compensation Plans   

1998
    Long-Term Incentive Plan  

In August 1998, the Board of Directors approved and adopted the
    1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan, which became effective in October
    1998 after approval by our shareholders. The Long-Term Incentive
    Plan is a comprehensive, long-term incentive compensation plan
    providing for discretionary awards of incentive stock options,
    non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, bonus
    stock, time-lapse restricted stock, performance-based restricted
    stock units and stock units to certain employees and
    non-employee directors of Atmos and its subsidiaries. The
    objectives of this plan include attracting and retaining the
    best personnel, providing for additional performance incentives
    and promoting our success by providing employees with the
    opportunity to acquire common stock. We are authorized to grant
    awards for up to a maximum of four million shares of common
    stock under this plan subject to certain adjustment provisions.
    As of September 30, 2006, non-qualified stock options,
    bonus stock, time-lapse restricted stock, performance-based
    restricted stock units and stock units had been issued under
    this plan, and 731,745 shares were available for future
    issuance. The option price of the stock options issued under
    this plan is equal to the market price of our stock at the date
    of grant. These stock options expire 10 years from the date
    of the grant and vest annually over a service period ranging
    from one to three years.

We used the Black-Scholes pricing model to estimate the fair
    value of each option granted with the following weighted average
    assumptions for 2006, 2005 and 2004:

(1)  

Beginning on the date of adoption of SFAS 123(R),
    forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience. Prior
    to the date of adoption, forfeitures were recorded as they
    occurred. 

(2)  

The expected life of stock options is estimated based on
    historical experience. 

(3)  

The interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury constant
    maturity interest rate whose term is consistent with the
    expected life of the stock options. 

(4)  

The volatility is estimated based on historical and current
    stock data for the Company. 

92

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

A summary of activity for grants of stock options under the 1998
    Long-Term Incentive Plan follows:

Information about outstanding and exercisable options under the
    1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as of September 30, 2006,
    follows:

The stock options had a weighted average fair value per share on
    the date of grant of $3.74 in 2006, $3.69 in 2005 and $3.82 in
    2004. Net cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options
    during the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004
    were $0.9 million, $12.1 million and
    $7.2 million. The associated income tax benefit from stock
    options exercised during the years ended September 30,
    2006, 2005 and 2004 were less than $0.1 million,
    $1.3 million and $0.6 million. The total intrinsic
    value of options exercised during the years ended
    September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were less than
    $0.1 million, $2.0 million and $1.2 million.

As of September 30, 2006, there was less than
    $0.1 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
    related to nonvested stock options. That cost is expected to be
    recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.3 years.

Restricted
    Stock Plans   

As noted above, the 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan provides for
    discretionary awards of restricted stock to help attract, retain
    and reward employees and non-employee directors of Atmos and its
    subsidiaries. Certain of these awards vest based upon the
    passage of time and other awards vest based upon the passage of
    time

93

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

and the achievement of specified performance targets. The
    associated expense is recognized ratably over the vesting
    period. The following summarizes information regarding the
    restricted stock plan:

As of September 30, 2006, there was $12.4 million of
    total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested
    restricted shares granted under the 1998 Long-Term Incentive
    Plan. That cost is expected to be recognized over a
    weighted-average period of 1.9 years. The fair value of
    restricted stock vested during the years ended
    September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $6.5 million,
    $0.8 million and less than $0.1 million.

Other
    Plans   

Direct
    Stock Purchase Plan  

We maintain a Direct Stock Purchase Plan which allows
    participants to have all or part of their cash dividends paid
    quarterly in additional shares of our common stock. Through
    March 2004, participants were permitted to reinvest their cash
    dividends at a three percent discount from market prices.
    Effective April 2004, the three percent discount on reinvested
    dividends was eliminated and the minimum initial investment
    required to join the plan was increased to $1,250. Direct Stock
    Purchase Plan participants may purchase additional shares of
    Atmos common stock as often as weekly with voluntary cash
    payments of at least $25, up to an annual maximum of $100,000.

Outside
    Directors
     Stock-For-Fee 
    Plan  

In November 1994, the Board adopted the Outside Directors
     Stock-for-Fee 
    Plan which was approved by the shareholders of Atmos in February
    1995 and was amended and restated in November 1997. The plan
    permits non-employee directors to receive all or part of their
    annual retainer and meeting fees in stock rather than in cash.

Equity
    Incentive and Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
    Directors  

In November 1998, the Board of Directors adopted the Equity
    Incentive and Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
    Directors which was approved by the shareholders of Atmos in
    February 1999. This plan amended the Atmos Energy Corporation
    Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors adopted by the
    Company in May 1990 and replaced the pension payable under the
    Company s Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors. The
    plan provides non-employee directors of Atmos with the
    opportunity to defer receipt, until retirement, of compensation
    for services rendered to the Company, invest deferred
    compensation into either a cash account or a stock account and
    to receive an annual grant of share units for each year of
    service on the Board.

Other
    Discretionary Compensation Plans  

We created the Variable Pay Plan in fiscal 1999 for our utility
    segment employees to give each employee an opportunity to share
    in the success of Atmos based on the achievement of key
    performance measures

94

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

considered critical to achieving business objectives for a given
    year. These performance measures may include earnings growth
    objectives, improved cash flow objectives or crucial customer
    satisfaction and safety results. We monitor progress towards the
    achievement of the performance measures throughout the year and
    record accruals based upon the expected payout using the best
    estimates available at the time the accrual is recorded.

We implemented the Annual Incentive Plan in October 2001 to give
    the employees in our nonutility segments an opportunity to share
    in the success of the nonutility operations. The plan is based
    upon the net earnings of the nonutility operations and has
    minimum and maximum thresholds. The plan must meet the minimum
    threshold in order for the plan to be funded and distributed to
    employees. We monitor the progress toward the achievement of the
    thresholds throughout the year and record accruals based upon
    the expected payout using the best estimates available at the
    time the accrual is recorded.

9.    

Retirement
    and Post-Retirement Employee Benefit Plans  

We have both funded and unfunded noncontributory defined benefit
    plans that together cover substantially all of our employees. We
    also maintain post-retirement plans that provide health care
    benefits to retired employees. Finally, we sponsor defined
    contribution plans which cover substantially all employees.
    These plans are discussed in further detail below.

Defined
    Benefit Plans   

Employee
    Pension Plans  

As of September 30, 2006, we maintained two defined benefit
    plans: the Atmos Energy Corporation Pension Account Plan (the
    Plan) and the Atmos Energy Corporation Retirement Plan for
    Mississippi Valley Gas Union Employees (the Union Plan)
    (collectively referred to as the Plans). The Plans are held
    within the Atmos Energy Corporation Master Retirement Trust (the
    Master Trust).

The Plan is a cash balance pension plan, that was established
    effective January 1999 and covers substantially all employees of
    Atmos. Opening account balances were established for
    participants as of January 1999 equal to the present value
    of their respective accrued benefits under the pension plans
    which were previously in effect as of December 31, 1998.
    The Plan credits an allocation to each participant s
    account at the end of each year according to a formula based on
    the participant s age, service and total pay (excluding
    incentive pay).

The Plan also provides for an additional annual allocation based
    upon a participant s age as of January 1, 1999 for
    those participants who were participants in the prior pension
    plans. The Plan will credit this additional allocation each year
    through December 31, 2008. In addition, at the end of each
    year, a participant s account will be credited with
    interest on the employee s prior year account balance. A
    special grandfather benefit also applies through
    December 31, 2008, for participants who were at least
    age 50 as of January 1, 1999, and who were
    participants in one of the prior plans on December 31,
    1998. Participants fully vest in their account balances after
    five years of service and may choose to receive their account
    balances as a lump sum or an annuity.

The Union Plan is a defined benefit plan that covers
    substantially all full-time union employees in our Mississippi
    Division. Under this plan, benefits are based upon years of
    benefit service and average final earnings. Participants vest in
    the plan after five years and will receive their benefit in an
    annuity.

Generally, our funding policy is to contribute annually an
    amount in accordance with the requirements of the Employee
    Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. However, additional
    voluntary contributions are made from time to time as considered
    necessary. Contributions are intended to provide not only for
    benefits attributed to service to date but also for those
    expected to be earned in the future.

95

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

During fiscal 2006, we voluntarily contributed $2.9 million
    to the Union Plan. The current year contribution achieved a
    desired level of funding by satisfying the minimum funding
    requirements while maximizing the tax deductible contribution
    for this plan for plan year 2005. During fiscal 2005, we
    voluntarily contributed $3.0 million to the Master Trust to
    maintain the level of funding we desire relative to our
    accumulated benefit obligation. We made the contribution because
    declining high yield corporate bond yields in the period leading
    up to our June 30, 2005 measurement date resulted in an
    increase in the present value of our plan liabilities. We are
    not required to make a minimum funding contribution during
    fiscal 2007 nor do we anticipate making any voluntary
    contributions during fiscal 2007.

We manage the Master Trust s assets with the objective of
    achieving a rate of return net of inflation of approximately
    four percent per year. We make investment decisions and evaluate
    performance on a medium term horizon of at least three to five
    years. We also consider our current financial status when making
    recommendations and decisions regarding the Master Trust s
    assets. Finally, we strive to ensure the Master Trust s
    assets are appropriately invested to maintain an acceptable
    level of risk and meet the Master Trust s long term asset
    allocation policy.

To achieve these objectives, we invest the Master Trust s
    assets in equity securities, fixed income securities, interests
    in commingled pension trust funds and cash and cash equivalents.
    Investments in equity securities are diversified among the
    market s various subsectors to diversify risk and maximize
    returns. Fixed income securities are invested in investment
    grade securities. Cash equivalents are invested in securities
    that either are short term (less than 180 days) or readily
    convertible to cash with modest risk.

The following table presents asset allocation information for
    the Master Trust as of September 30, 2006 and 2005.

At September 30, 2006 and 2005, the Plan held
    1,169,700 shares of Atmos common stock, which represented
    9.2 percent and 9.1 percent of total Master Trust
    assets. These shares generated dividend income for the Plan of
    approximately $1.5 million during both fiscal 2006 and 2005.

96

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Our employee pension plan expenses and liabilities are
    determined on an actuarial basis and are affected by numerous
    assumptions and estimates including the market value of plan
    assets, estimates of the expected return on plan assets and
    assumed discount rates and demographic data. We review the
    estimates and assumptions underlying our employee pension plans
    annually based upon a June 30 measurement date. The
    development of our assumptions is fully described in our
    significant accounting policies in Note 2. The actuarial
    assumptions used to determine the pension liability for the
    Plans were determined as of June 30, 2006 and 2005 and the
    actuarial assumptions used to determine the net periodic pension
    cost for the Plans were determined as of June 30, 2005,
    2004 and 2003. These assumptions are presented in the following
    table:

The following table presents the Plans  accumulated benefit
    obligation, projected benefit obligation and funded status as of
    September 30, 2006 and 2005.

97

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Net periodic pension cost for the Plans for 2006, 2005 and 2004
    is recorded as operating expense and included the following
    components:

Supplemental
    Executive Benefits Plans  

We have a nonqualified Supplemental Executive Benefits Plan
    which provides additional pension, disability and death benefits
    to the officers and certain other employees of Atmos. The
    Supplemental Plan was amended and restated in August 1998. In
    addition, in August 1998, we adopted the Performance-Based
    Supplemental Executive Benefits Plan which covers all employees
    who become officers or division presidents after August 12,
    1998 or any other employees selected by our Board of Directors
    at its discretion.

Similar to our employee pension plans, we review the estimates
    and assumptions underlying our supplemental executive benefit
    plans annually based upon a June 30 measurement date using
    the same techniques as our employee pension plans. The actuarial
    assumptions used to determine the pension liability for the
    supplemental plans were determined as of June 30, 2006 and
    2005 and the actuarial assumptions used to determine the net
    periodic pension cost for the supplemental plans were determined
    as of June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003. These assumptions are
    presented in the following table:

98

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table presents the supplemental plans 
    accumulated benefit obligation, projected benefit obligation and
    funded status as of September 30, 2006 and 2005.

Assets for the supplemental plans are held in separate rabbi
    trusts and comprise the following:

99

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

At September 30, 2006, we maintained investments in one
    domestic equity mutual fund and one domestic bond fund that were
    in unrealized loss positions as of September 30, 2006.
    Information concerning unrealized losses for our supplemental
    plan assets follows:

Less Than 12 Months 

12 Months or More 

Unrealized 

Unrealized 

Fair Value 

Loss 

Fair Value 

Loss 

(In thousands) 

Domestic equity mutual funds

$

19,963

$

773

$

$

Because these funds are only used to fund the supplemental
    plans, we evaluate investment performance over a long-term
    horizon. Based upon our intent and ability to hold these
    investments, the short-term nature of the impairment as of
    September 30, 2006 and our ability to direct the source of
    the payments in order to maximize the life of the portfolio, the
    improved investment returns in the last year and the fact that
    these funds continue to receive good ratings from mutual fund
    rating companies, we do not consider this impairment to be
     other-than-temporary. 

Net periodic pension cost for the supplemental plans for 2006,
    2005 and 2004 is recorded as operating expense and included the
    following components:

Supplemental
    Disclosures For Defined Benefit Plans with Accumulated Benefit
    Obligations in Excess of Plan Assets  

The following summarizes key information for our defined benefit
    plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan
    assets. For fiscal 2005 the accumulated benefit obligation for
    the MVG plan exceeded the fair value of plan assets. For fiscal
    2006 and 2005 the accumulated benefit obligation for our
    supplemental plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets.

100

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Estimated
    Future Benefit Payments  

The following benefit payments for our defined benefit plans,
    which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are
    expected to be paid in the following years:

Postretirement
    Benefits   

At September 30, 2006, we sponsored the Retiree Medical
    Plan for Retirees and Disabled Employees of Atmos Energy
    Corporation (the Atmos Retiree Medical Plan). Effective
    December 31, 2004, the Atmos Energy Corporation Retiree
    Welfare Benefits Plan for Certain MVG Non-Union Employees and
    the Atmos Energy Corporation Retiree Welfare Benefits Plan for
    MVG Union Employees merged into the Atmos Retiree Medical Plan.

This plan provides medical and prescription drug protection to
    all qualified participants based on their date of retirement.
    The Plan provides different levels of benefits depending on the
    level of coverage chosen by the participants and the terms of
    predecessor plans; however, we generally pay 80 percent of
    the projected net claims and administrative costs and
    participants pay the remaining 20 percent of this cost.

On October 1, 2004, in connection with the acquisition of
    TXU Gas, we transitioned certain employees from TXU Gas to Atmos
    Energy Corporation. Although we did not assume the existing
    employee benefit liabilities or plans of TXU Gas, we received a
    credit of $18.9 million against the purchase price to
    permit us to provide partial past service credits for retiree
    medical benefits under the Atmos Retiree Medical Plan. The
    $18.9 million credit approximated the actuarially
    determined present value of the accumulated benefits related to
    the past service of the transitioned employees on the
    acquisition date.

Generally, our funding policy is to contribute annually an
    amount in accordance with the requirements of the Employee
    Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. However, additional
    voluntary contributions are made annually as considered
    necessary. Contributions are intended to provide not only for
    benefits attributed to service to date but also for those
    expected to be earned in the future. We expect to contribute
    $11.4 million to our postretirement benefits plans during
    fiscal 2007.

We maintain a formal investment policy with respect to the
    assets in our postretirement benefits plans to ensure the assets
    funding the postretirement benefit plans are appropriately
    invested to maintain an acceptable level of risk. We also
    consider our current financial status when making
    recommendations and decisions regarding the postretirement
    benefits plans.

101

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

We currently invest the assets funding our postretirement
    benefit plans in money market funds, equity mutual funds, fixed
    income funds and a balanced fund. The following table presents
    asset allocation information for the postretirement benefit plan
    assets as of September 30, 2006 and 2005.

(1)  

This fund invests in a diversified portfolio of common stocks,
    preferred stocks and fixed income securities. It may invest up
    to 75 percent of assets in common stocks and convertible
    securities. 

Similar to our employee pension and supplemental plans, we
    review the estimates and assumptions underlying our supplemental
    executive benefit plans annually based upon a June 30
    measurement date using the same techniques as our employee
    pension plans. The actuarial assumptions used to determine the
    pension liability for our postretirement plan were determined as
    of June 30, 2006 and 2005 and the actuarial assumptions
    used to determine the net periodic pension cost for the
    postretirement plan were determined as of June 30, 2005,
    2004 and 2003. The assumptions are presented in the following
    table:

102

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table presents the postretirement plan s
    benefit obligation and funded status as of September 30,
    2006 and 2005.

Net periodic postretirement cost for 2006, 2005 and 2004 is
    recorded as operating expense and included the components
    presented below. The 2006, 2005 and 2004 amounts reflect the
    impact of adopting the provisions of the Medicare Prescription
    Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act)
    beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2004 as the plan is
    considered  actuarially equivalent  to Medicare
    Part D.

103

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect
    on the amounts reported for the plan. A one-percentage point
    change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the
    following effects on the latest actuarial calculations:

We are currently recovering other postretirement benefits costs
    through our regulated rates under SFAS 106 accrual
    accounting in substantially all of our service areas. Other
    postretirement benefits costs have been specifically addressed
    in rate orders in each jurisdiction served by our Mid-States
    Division and our Mississippi Division or have been included in a
    rate case and not disallowed. Management believes that accrual
    accounting in accordance with SFAS 106 is appropriate and
    will continue to seek rate recovery of accrual-based expenses in
    its ratemaking jurisdictions that have not yet approved the
    recovery of these expenses.

Estimated
    Future Benefit Payments  

The following benefit payments paid by us, retirees and
    prescription drug subsidy payments for our postretirement
    benefit plans, which reflect expected future service, as
    appropriate, are expected to be paid in the following years:

104

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Defined
    Contribution Plans   

As of September 30, 2006, we maintained two defined
    contribution benefit plans: the Atmos Energy Corporation
    Retirement Savings Plan and Trust (the Retirement Savings Plan)
    and the Atmos Energy Corporation Savings Plan for MVG Union
    Employees (the Union 401K Plan).

The Retirement Savings Plan covers substantially all employees
    and is subject to the provisions of Section 401(k) of the
    Internal Revenue Code. Participants may elect a salary reduction
    ranging from a minimum of one percent up to a maximum of
    65 percent of eligible compensation, as defined by the
    Plan, not to exceed the maximum allowed by the Internal Revenue
    Service. We match 100 percent of a participant s
    contributions, limited to four percent of the participant s
    salary, in Atmos common stock. However, participants have the
    option to immediately transfer this matching contribution into
    other funds held within the plan. Participants are eligible to
    receive matching contributions after completing one year of
    service. Participants are also permitted to take out loans
    against their accounts subject to certain restrictions.

The Union 401K Plan covers substantially all Mississippi
    Division employees who are members of the International Chemical
    Workers Union Council, United Food and Commercial Workers Union
    International (the Union) and is subject to the provisions of
    Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Employees of
    the Union automatically become participants of the Union 401K
    plan on the date of union employment. We match 50 percent
    of a participant s contribution, limited to six percent of
    the participant s eligible contribution. Participants are
    also permitted to take out loans against their accounts subject
    to certain restrictions.

Matching contributions to our defined contribution plans are
    expensed as incurred and amounted to $7.0 million,
    $5.7 million, and $4.6 million for 2006, 2005 and
    2004. The Board of Directors may also approve discretionary
    contributions, subject to the provisions of the Internal Revenue
    Code of 1986 and applicable regulations of the Internal Revenue
    Service. No discretionary contributions were made for 2006, 2005
    or 2004. At September 30, 2006 and 2005, the Retirement
    Savings Plan held 3.2 percent and 3.1 percent of our
    outstanding common stock.

10.    

Details
    of Selected Consolidated Balance Sheet Captions  

The following tables provide additional information regarding
    the composition of certain of our balance sheet captions.

Accounts
    receivable   

Accounts receivable was comprised of the following at
    September 30, 2006 and 2005:

105

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Other
    current assets   

Other current assets as of September 30, 2006 and 2005 were
    comprised of the following accounts.

Property,
    plant and equipment   

Property, plant and equipment was comprised of the following as
    of September 30, 2006 and 2005:

106

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Deferred
    charges and other assets   

Deferred charges and other assets as of September 30, 2006
    and 2005 were comprised of the following accounts.

Other
    current liabilities   

Other current liabilities as of September 30, 2006 and 2005
    were comprised of the following accounts.

107

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Deferred
    credits and other liabilities   

Deferred credits and other liabilities as of September 30,
    2006 and 2005 were comprised of the following accounts.

Basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended
    September 30 are calculated as follows:

There were no
     out-of-the-money 
    options excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per
    share for the year ended September 30, 2006 and 2005. There
    were approximately 3,000
     out-of-the-money 
    options excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per
    share for the year ended September 30, 2004 as their
    exercise price was greater than the average market price of the
    common stock during that period.

108

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The components of income tax expense from continuing operations
    for 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:

Reconciliations of the provision for income taxes computed at
    the statutory rate to the reported provisions for income taxes
    from continuing operations for 2006, 2005 and 2004 are set forth
    below:

109

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of differences
    between the basis of assets and liabilities for book and tax
    purposes. The tax effect of temporary differences that give rise
    to significant components of the deferred tax liabilities and
    deferred tax assets at September 30, 2006 and 2005 are
    presented below:

We have tax carryforwards amounting to $5.6 million. The
    tax carryforwards include net operating losses for federal
    purposes amounting to $4.3 million and state net operating
    losses amounting to $1.3 million. The federal net operating
    loss carryforwards will expire in 2026. Depending on the
    jurisdiction in which the net operating loss was generated, the
    state net operating losses will begin to expire between 2011 and
    2026.

The Internal Revenue Service is currently conducting a routine
    examination of our fiscal 2002, 2003 and 2004 tax returns. We
    believe all material tax items which relate to the years under
    audit have been properly accrued.

110

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

13.    

Commitments
    and Contingencies  

Litigation   

Colorado-Kansas
    Division  

We are a defendant in a lawsuit originally filed by Quinque
    Operating Company, Tom Boles and Robert Ditto in September 1999
    in the District Court of Stevens County, Kansas against more
    than 200 companies in the natural gas industry. The
    plaintiffs, who purport to represent a class of royalty owners,
    allege that the defendants have underpaid royalties on gas taken
    from wells situated on non-federal and non-Indian lands in
    Kansas, predicated upon allegations that the defendants 
    gas measurements were inaccurate. The plaintiffs have not
    specifically alleged an amount of damages. We are also a
    defendant, along with over 50 other companies in the natural gas
    industry, in another proposed class action lawsuit filed in the
    same court by Will Price, Tom Boles and The Cooper Clarke
    Foundation in May 2003 involving similar allegations. We believe
    that the plaintiffs  claims are lacking in merit and we
    intend to vigorously defend these actions. While the results
    cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe the final outcome
    of such litigation will not have a material adverse effect on
    our financial conditions, results of operations or net cash
    flows. We were also a defendant in another lawsuit entitled
     In Re Natural Gas Royalties Qui Tam Litigation , involving
    similar allegations filed in June 1997 in the United States
    District Court for the District of Colorado, which was later
    transferred to the United States District Court for the District
    of Wyoming, where it was consolidated with approximately 50
    additional lawsuits in October 1999. On October 20, 2006,
    the District Court granted the defendants  motion to
    dismiss this lawsuit for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.

United
    Cities Propane Gas, Inc.  

United Cities Propane Gas, Inc., one of our wholly-owned
    subsidiaries, was a party to an action filed in June 2000 that
    was pending in the Circuit Court of Sevier County, Tennessee.
    The plaintiffs  claims arose out of injuries alleged to
    have been caused by a low-level propane explosion. The
    plaintiffs were seeking to recover damages of
    $13.0 million. The case was settled on November 14,
    2006. As the settlement amount was fully covered by insurance,
    the settlement did not have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows.

We are a party to other litigation and claims that arose in the
    ordinary course of our business, including certain litigation
    and claims that arose in the ordinary course of the business of
    TXU Gas Company, the natural gas distribution and pipeline
    operations we acquired on October 1, 2004. While the
    results of such litigation and claims cannot be predicted with
    certainty, we believe the final outcome of such litigation and
    claims will not have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition, results of operations or net cash flows.

Environmental
    Matters   

Former
    Manufactured Gas Plant Sites  

We are the owner or previous owner of former manufactured gas
    plant sites in Johnson City and Bristol, Tennessee, Keokuk,
    Iowa, and Hannibal, Missouri, which were used to supply gas
    prior to the availability of natural gas. The gas manufacturing
    process resulted in certain byproducts and residual materials,
    including coal tar. The manufacturing process used by our
    predecessors was an acceptable and satisfactory process at the
    time such operations were being conducted. Under current
    environmental protection laws and regulations, we may be
    responsible for response actions with respect to such materials
    if response actions are necessary.

United Cities Gas Company and the Tennessee Department of
    Environment and Conservation (TDEC) entered into a consent order
    effective in January 1997, to facilitate the investigation,
    removal and remediation of the Johnson City site. Prior to our
    merger with United Cities Gas Company in July 1997, United
    Cities Gas

111

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Company began the implementation of the consent order in the
    first quarter of fiscal 1997, which will continue for the
    foreseeable future. The investigative phase of the work at the
    site has been completed, and an interim removal action was
    completed in June 2001. We installed four groundwater monitoring
    wells at the site in 2002 and have submitted the analytical
    results to the TDEC. We completed a risk assessment report that
    has been approved by the TDEC as well as a feasibility study for
    this site, which was submitted to the TDEC in October 2003. The
    feasibility study recommends a remedial action that will limit
    the use of and access to the impacted soil, cap the site with
    the addition of a clay fill and geosynthetic liner and
    groundwater monitoring for a period of up to 30 years. The
    feasibility study was approved by the TDEC in February 2005. The
    estimated cost of the remedial action is $1.5 million,
    which is comprised primarily of operating and maintenance costs
    that would be associated with a groundwater monitoring project.
    In January 2006, the TDEC issued a Record of Decision approving
    the remedial action recommended in the feasibility study. The
    Tennessee Regulatory Authority granted us permission to defer,
    until our next rate case in Tennessee, all costs incurred in
    Tennessee in connection with state and federally mandated
    environmental control requirements.

In March 2002, the TDEC contacted us about conducting an
    investigation at a former manufactured gas plant located in
    Bristol, Tennessee. We agreed to perform a preliminary
    investigation at the site, which we completed in June 2002. The
    investigation identified manufactured gas plant residual
    materials in the soil beneath the site, and we have proposed
    performing a focused removal action to remove any such
    residuals. The TDEC requested that the focused removal action be
    conducted pursuant to a voluntary agreement. In April 2004, we
    entered into a voluntary consent agreement with the TDEC for the
    performance of the removal action and the removal action was
    completed in November 2004. In September 2005, we filed site use
    limitations on the property in the local property records,
    including restrictions on the use of the site to commercial and
    industrial purposes and a prohibition of the use of groundwater
    for use as drinking water were filed. In February 2006, we
    received a Completion Letter from the TDEC informing us that no
    further action is required at this site pursuant to the
    voluntary consent agreement with the TDEC.

In July 1998, we entered into an Abatement Order on Consent with
    the Missouri Department of Natural Resources to address the
    former manufactured gas plant located in Hannibal, Missouri. We
    agreed to perform a removal action and a subsequent site
    evaluation and to reimburse the response costs incurred by the
    state of Missouri in connection with the property. The removal
    action was conducted and completed in August 1998, and the
    site-evaluation field work was conducted in August 1999. A risk
    assessment for the site has been approved by the Missouri
    Department of Natural Resources. In preparation for the risk
    assessment, we executed and recorded certain site-use
    limitations, including restricting use of the site to commercial
    and industrial purposes and prohibiting the withdrawal of
    groundwater for use as drinking water. In addition, we have
    installed a geosynthetic liner over the surface of the site.

In 1995, United Cities Gas Company entered into an agreement
    with a third party to resolve its share of the costs of
    additional investigations and environmental-response actions for
    soil contamination at a former manufactured gas plant in Keokuk,
    Iowa. However, the extent of groundwater contamination at the
    site, if any, which is not covered by the agreement, has yet to
    be determined.

As of September 30, 2006, we had incurred costs of
    approximately $2.3 million for the investigations of the
    Johnson City and Bristol, Tennessee, and Hannibal, Missouri
    sites.

We are a party to other environmental matters and claims that
    have arisen in the ordinary course of our business. While the
    ultimate results of response actions to these environmental
    matters and claims cannot be predicted with certainty, we
    believe the final outcome of such response actions will not have
    a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or net cash flows because we believe that the
    expenditures related to such response actions will either be
    recovered through rates, shared with other parties or are
    adequately covered by insurance.

112

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Purchase
    Commitments   

AEM has commitments to purchase physical quantities of natural
    gas under contracts indexed to the forward NYMEX strip or fixed
    price contracts. At September 30, 2006, AEM was committed
    to purchase 61.7 Bcf within one year, 51.2 Bcf within
    one to three years and 0.8 Bcf after three years under
    indexed contracts. AEM is committed to purchase 2.4 Bcf
    within one year and 0.1 Bcf within one to three years under
    fixed price contracts with prices ranging from $3.40 to $12.00.
    Purchases under these contracts totaled $2,124.3 million,
    $1,421.2 million and $1,252.2 million for 2006, 2005
    and 2004.

Our utility divisions, except for our Mid-Tex Division, maintain
    supply contracts with several vendors that generally cover a
    period of up to one year. Commitments for estimated base gas
    volumes are established under these contracts on a monthly basis
    at contractually negotiated prices. Commitments for incremental
    daily purchases are made as necessary during the month in
    accordance with the terms of the individual contract.

Our Mid-Tex Division maintains long-term supply contracts to
    ensure a reliable source of gas for our customers in its service
    area which obligate it to purchase specified volumes at market
    prices. The estimated commitments under these contracts as of
    September 30, 2006 are as follows (in thousands):

Leasing
    Operations   

Atmos Power Systems, Inc. constructs electric peaking
    power-generating plants and associated facilities and enters
    into agreements to either lease or sell these plants. We
    completed a sales-type lease transaction for one distributed
    electric generation plant in 2001 and a second sales-type lease
    transaction in 2003. In connection with these lease
    transactions, as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, we had
    receivables of $19.4 million and $22.4 million and
    recognized income of $1.7 million, $1.6 million and
    $1.9 million for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004. The
    future minimum lease payments to be received for each of the
    five succeeding years are as follows:

113

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Capital
    and Operating Leases   

We have entered into non-cancelable operating leases for office
    and warehouse space used in our operations. The remaining lease
    terms range from one to 20 years and generally provide for
    the payment of taxes, insurance and maintenance by the lessee.
    Renewal options exist for certain of these leases. We have also
    entered into capital leases for division offices and operating
    facilities. Property, plant and equipment included amounts for
    capital leases of $5.8 million at September 30, 2006
    and 2005. Accumulated depreciation for these capital leases
    totaled $4.2 million and $3.8 million at
    September 30, 2006 and 2005. Depreciation expense for these
    assets is included in consolidated depreciation expense on the
    consolidated statement of income.

The related future minimum lease payments at September 30,
    2006 were as follows:

Consolidated lease and rental expense amounted to
    $11.4 million, $9.5 million and $8.1 million for
    fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004.

15.    

Concentration
    of Credit Risk  

Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to us if a customer
    fails to perform its contractual obligations. We engage in
    transactions for the purchase and sale of products and services
    with major companies in the energy industry and with industrial,
    commercial, residential and municipal energy consumers. These
    transactions principally occur in the southern and midwestern
    regions of the United States. We believe that this geographic
    concentration does not contribute significantly to our overall
    exposure to credit risk. Credit risk associated with trade
    accounts receivable for the utility segment is mitigated by the
    large number of individual customers and diversity in our
    customer base. Due to minimal receivables, the credit risk for
    our other nonutility segment is not significant.

Customer diversification also helps mitigate AEM s exposure
    to credit risk. AEM maintains credit policies with respect to
    its counterparties that it believes minimizes overall credit
    risk. Where appropriate, such policies include the evaluation of
    a prospective counterparty s financial condition,
    collateral requirements and the use of standardized agreements
    that facilitate the netting of cash flows associated with a
    single counterparty. AEM also monitors the financial condition
    of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. Customers not
    meeting minimum standards are required to provide adequate
    assurance of financial performance.

AEM maintains a provision for credit losses based upon factors
    surrounding the credit risk of customers, historical trends and
    other information. We believe, based on our credit policies and
    our provisions for credit

114

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

losses, that our financial position, results of operations and
    cash flows will not be materially affected as a result of
    nonperformance by any single counterparty.

AEM s estimated credit exposure is monitored in terms of
    the percentage of its customers that are rated as investment
    grade versus non-investment grade. Credit exposure is defined as
    the total of (1) accounts receivable, (2) delivered,
    but unbilled physical sales and
     (3) mark-to-market 
    exposure for sales and purchases. Investment grade
    determinations are set internally by AEM s credit
    department, but are primarily based on external ratings provided
    by Moody s Investors Service Inc. (Moody s)
     and/or 
    Standard & Poor s Corporation (S&P). For
    non-rated entities, the default rating for municipalities is
    investment grade, while the default rating for non-guaranteed
    industrials and commercials is non-investment grade. The
    following table shows the percentages related to the investment
    ratings as of September 30, 2006 and 2005.

The following table presents our derivative counterparty credit
    exposure by operating segment based upon the unrealized fair
    value of our derivative contracts that represent assets as of
    September 30, 2006. Investment grade counterparties have
    minimum credit ratings of BBB-, assigned by Standard &
    Poor s Rating Group; or Baa3, assigned by Moody s
    Investor Service. Non-investment grade counterparties are
    composed of counterparties that are below investment grade or
    that have not been assigned an internal investment grade rating
    due to the short-term nature of the contracts associated with
    that counterparty. This category is composed of numerous smaller
    counterparties, none of which is individually significant.

(1)  

Counterparty risk for our utility segment is minimized because
    hedging gains and losses are passed through to our customers. 

16.    

Supplemental
    Cash Flow Disclosures  

Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information for 2006, 2005
    and 2004 are presented below.

There were no significant noncash investing and financing
    transactions during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. All cash flows
    and non cash activities related to our commodity derivatives are
    considered as operating activities.

115

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

17.    

Segment
    Information  

Atmos Energy Corporation and its subsidiaries are engaged
    primarily in the natural gas utility business as well as certain
    nonutility businesses. We distribute natural gas through sales
    and transportation arrangements to approximately
    3.2 million residential, commercial, public-authority and
    industrial customers throughout our seven regulated utility
    divisions, which cover service areas located in 12 states.
    In addition, we transport natural gas for others through our
    distribution system.

Through our nonutility businesses, we provide natural gas
    management and marketing services to industrial customers,
    municipalities and other local distribution companies located in
    22 states. Additionally, we provide natural gas
    transportation and storage services to certain of our utility
    operations and to third parties.

Our operations are divided into four segments:

The utility segment, which includes our regulated natural gas
    distribution and related sales operations,

The natural gas marketing segment, which includes a variety of
    nonregulated natural gas management services,

The pipeline and storage segment, which includes our regulated
    and nonregulated natural gas transmission and storage
    services and

The other nonutility segment, which includes all of our other
    nonregulated nonutility operations.

Our determination of reportable segments considers the strategic
    operating units under which we manage sales of various products
    and services to customers in differing regulatory environments.
    Although our utility segment operations are geographically
    dispersed, they are reported as a single segment as each utility
    division has similar economic characteristics. The accounting
    policies of the segments are the same as those described in the
    summary of significant accounting policies. We evaluate
    performance based on net income or loss of the respective
    operating units. Interest expense is allocated pro rata to each
    segment based upon our net investment in each segment. Income
    taxes are allocated to each segment as if each segment s
    taxes were calculated on a separate return basis.

116

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Summarized income statements and capital expenditures by segment
    are shown in the following tables.

117

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

118

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table summarizes our revenues by products and
    services for the year ended September 30.

119

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Balance sheet information at September 30, 2006 and 2005 by
    segment is presented in the following tables:

120

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

121

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

18.    

Related
    Party Transactions  

AEM provides a variety of natural gas management services to our
    Kentucky, Louisiana and Mid-States divisions including
    furnishing natural gas supplies at fixed and market-based prices
    and the management of certain of our underground storage
    facilities. Additionally, at times, AEM places financial
    instruments for our various divisions to partially insulate us
    and our customers from gas price volatility.

Atmos Pipeline and Storage, L.L.C. provides asset management
    services for certain of our utility storage fields in exchange
    for a contractually negotiated demand charge. The Atmos
    Pipeline   Texas Division, a division of Atmos,
    provides natural gas transportation services to our Atmos Energy
    Mid-Tex Division.

Atmos Energy Services, L.L.C., provides natural gas management
    services for our own utility operations, other than the Mid-Tex
    Division. Prior to the second quarter of fiscal 2004, this
    entity conducted limited operations. However, beginning in April
    2004, AES began providing natural gas supply management services
    to our utility operations in a limited number of states. These
    services include aggregating and purchasing gas supply,
    arranging transportation and storage logistics and ultimately
    delivering the gas to our utility service areas at competitive
    prices.

The following summarizes our significant affiliate transactions
    with AEM, APS and AES.

(1)  

Gas purchases are made in a competitive bidding process, reflect
    market prices and exclude demand and other charges. 

JD Woodward was Senior Vice President, Nonutility Operations of
    the Company from April 2001 to April 2006. Woodward Marketing
    L.L.C., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company through
    September 30, 2003 and its successor, AEM, leased office
    space from one corporation owned by Mr. Woodward. The lease
    originated in April 2002 and was terminated in July 2006.

During 2006, 2005 and 2004, our utility division leased office
    space and vehicles from our natural gas marketing and other
    nonutility segments. Base lease payments were $1.1 million,
    $1.0 million and $1.2 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004.

122

Table of Contents   

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

19.    

Selected
    Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)  

Summarized unaudited quarterly financial data is presented
    below. The sum of net income per share by quarter may not equal
    the net income per share for the year due to variations in the
    weighted average shares outstanding used in computing such
    amounts. Our businesses are seasonal due to weather conditions
    in our service areas. For further information on its effects on
    quarterly results, see the  Results of Operations 
    discussion included in the  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  section herein.

123

Table of Contents   

ITEM 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

None.

ITEM 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

Management s
    Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

We have established disclosure controls and procedures that are
    designed to provide reasonable assurance that information
    required to be disclosed by us, including our consolidated
    entities, in the reports that we file or submit to the United
    States Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities
    and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Act ), is
    recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
    periods specified in the Securities and Exchange
    Commission s rules and forms. Under the supervision and
    with the participation of our management, including our
    Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer ( Principal
    Executive Officer ) and our Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer ( Principal Financial Officer ), we
    evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
    procedures, as such term is defined under
     Rule 13a-15(e) 
    promulgated under the Act. Based on this evaluation, our
    Principal Executive Officer and our Principal Financial Officer
    concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were
    effective as of September 30, 2006 in ensuring that
    information required to be disclosed by us in this annual report
    on
     Form 10-K 
    was accumulated and communicated to our management, including
    our Principal Executive and Principal Financial Officers, as
    appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required
    disclosure.

Management s
    Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term
    is defined in Exchange Act
     Rule 13a-15(f), 
    in providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
    financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
    for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles. Under the supervision and with the
    participation of our management, including our Principal
    Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer, we evaluated
    the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting based on the framework in  Internal
    Control-Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of
    Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
    Based on our evaluation under the framework in  Internal
    Control-Integrated Framework  issued by COSO and applicable
    Securities and Exchange Commission rules, our management
    concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was
    effective as of September 30, 2006.

Ernst & Young LLP has issued its report on
    management s assessment and on the effectiveness of the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting. That
    report appears below.

/s/   ROBERT
    W. BEST  

/s/   JOHN
    P.
    REDDY  

Robert W. Best

John P. Reddy

Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer

Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer

November 20, 2006

124

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON 
    INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  

The Board of Directors

Atmos Energy Corporation

We have audited management s assessment, included in the
    accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over
    Financial Reporting, that Atmos Energy Corporation maintained
    effective internal control over financial reporting as of
    September 30, 2006, based on criteria established in
    Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    (the COSO criteria). Atmos Energy Corporation s management
    is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility
    is to express an opinion on management s assessment and an
    opinion on the effectiveness of the company s internal
    control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
    management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design
    and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
    such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
    circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
    basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management s assessment that Atmos Energy
    Corporation maintained effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of September 30, 2006, is fairly stated, in
    all material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our
    opinion, Atmos Energy Corporation maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of September 30, 2006, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of Atmos Energy Corporation as of
    September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated
    statements of income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    September 30, 2006 of Atmos Energy Corporation and our
    report dated November 20, 2006 expressed an unqualified
    opinion thereon.

ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Dallas, Texas

November 20, 2006

125

Table of Contents   

Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

We did not make any changes in our internal control over
    financial reporting (as defined in
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Act) during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year
    ended September 30, 2006 that have materially affected, or
    are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
    over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.      

Other
    Information   

Not applicable.

PART III  

ITEM 10.      

Directors
    and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

Information regarding directors and compliance with
    Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is
    incorporated herein by reference from the Company s
    Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders on February 7, 2007. Information regarding
    executive officers is included in Part I of this
     Form 10-K. 

Identification of the members of the Audit Committee of the
    Board of Directors as well as the Board of Directors 
    determination as to whether one or more audit committee
    financial experts are serving on the Audit Committee of the
    Board of Directors is incorporated herein by reference from the
    Company s Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
    of Shareholders on February 7, 2007.

The Company has adopted a code of ethics for its principal
    executive officer, principal financial officer and principal
    accounting officer. Such code of ethics is represented by the
    Company s Code of Conduct, which is applicable to all
    directors, officers and employees of the Company, including the
    Company s principal executive officer, principal financial
    officer and principal accounting officer. A copy of the
    Company s Code of Conduct is posted on the Company s
    website at  www.atmosenergy.com  under  Corporate
    Governance . In addition, any amendment to or waiver
    granted from a provision of the Company s Code of Conduct
    will be posted on the Company s website under
     Corporate Governance .

ITEM 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

Incorporated herein by reference from the Company s
    Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders on February 7, 2007.

ITEM 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and of
    management is incorporated herein by reference from the
    Company s Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
    of Shareholders on February 7, 2007. Information concerning
    our equity compensation plans is provided in Part II,
    Item 5, Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
    Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities,
    of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

ITEM 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions   

Incorporated herein by reference from the Company s
    Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders on February 7, 2007.

126

Table of Contents   

ITEM 14.      

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services   

Incorporated herein by reference from the Company s
    Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders on February 7, 2007.

PART IV  

ITEM 15.      

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules   

(a) 1. and 2.  Financial statements and financial
    statement schedules. 

The financial statements and financial statement schedule listed
    in the Index to Financial Statements in Item 8 are filed as
    part of this
     Form 10-K. 

3.  Exhibits 

The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibits Index are
    filed as part of this
     Form 10-K. 
    The exhibits numbered 10.7(a) through 10.16(e) are management
    contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.

127

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

(Registrant)

By: 

/s/   JOHN
    P. REDDY 

John P. Reddy

Senior Vice President 

and Chief Financial Officer 

Date: November 22, 2006

128

Table of Contents   

POWER OF
    ATTORNEY  

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature
    appears below hereby constitutes and appoints Robert W. Best and
    John P. Reddy, or either of them acting alone or together, as
    his true and lawful
     attorney-in-fact 
    and agent with full power to act alone, for him and in his name,
    place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all
    amendments to this
     Form 10-K, 
    and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and all other
    documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission, granting unto said
     attorney-in-fact 
    and agent full power and authority to do and perform each and
    every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in and
    about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he
    might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all
    that said
     attorney-in-fact 
    and agent, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    date indicated:

129

Table of Contents   

130

Table of Contents   

Schedule II  

ATMOS
    ENERGY CORPORATION 

Valuation
    and Qualifying Accounts 

Three
    Years Ended September 30, 2006   

(1)  

Represents allowance for doubtful accounts recorded in
    connection with the TXU Gas acquisition. 

(2)  

Uncollectible accounts written off. 

131

Table of Contents   

EXHIBITS INDEX 
    Item 14.(a)(3)  

132

Table of Contents   

133

Table of Contents   

Page Number or 

Exhibit 

Incorporation by 

Number 

Description 

Reference to 

10

.2(c)

Transitional Services Agreement,
    dated as of October 1, 2004, by and between Atmos Energy
    Corporation and TXU Business Services Company (Exhibit A to
    Schedule 2 containing listing of employee credit and
    procurement cards is omitted, to be supplementally furnished to
    the Commission upon request)

Exhibit 10.3 to
     Form 8-K 
    dated September 30, 2004 (File No. 1-10042)

10

.2(d)

Transitional Access Agreement,
    dated as of October 1, 2004, by and among Atmos Energy
    Corporation and TXU Energy Retail Company LP, TXU Business
    Services Company, TXU Properties Company and TXU Electric
    Delivery Company

Exhibit 10.4 to
     Form 8-K 
    dated September 30, 2004 (File No. 1-10042)

10

.3

Revolving Credit Agreement
    (3 Year Facility), dated as of October 18, 2005, among
    Atmos Energy Corporation, SunTrust Bank, as Administrative
    Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agent and Bank
    of America, N.A., Wachovia Bank, National Association and
    Societe Generale, as
     Co-Documentation 
    Agents, and the lenders from time to time parties thereto

Exhibit 10.1 to
     Form 8-K 
    dated October 18, 2005 (File No. 1-10042)

10

.4

Pipeline Construction and
    Operating Agreement, dated November 30, 2005, by and
    between Atmos-Pipeline Texas, a division of Atmos Energy
    Corporation, a Texas and Virginia corporation and Energy
    Transfer Fuel, LP, a Delaware limited partnership

Exhibit 10.1 to
     Form 8-K 
    dated November 30, 2005 (File No. 1-10042)

10

.5(a)

Uncommitted Second Amended and
    Restated Credit Agreement, dated to be effective March 30,
    2005, among Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC, Fortis Capital Corp.,
    BNP Paribas and the other financial institutions which may
    become parties thereto.

Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K
    dated March 30, 2005 (File No. 1-10042)

10

.5(b)

First Amendment, dated as of
    November 28, 2005, to the Uncommitted Second Amended and
    Restated Credit Agreement, dated to be effective March 30,
    2005, among Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC, Fortis Capital Corp.,
    BNP Paribas, Soci t  G n rale, and the other
    financial institutions which may become parties thereto.

Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated
    November 28, 2005 (File No. 1-10042)

10

.5(c)

Second Amendment, dated as of
    March 31, 2006, to the Uncommitted Second Amended and
    Restated Credit Agreement, dated to be effective March 30,
    2005, among Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC, Fortis Capital Corp.,
    BNP Paribas, Soci t  G n rale and the other
    financial institutions which may become parties thereto

Exhibit 10.1 to
     Form 8-K 
    dated March 31, 2006 (File No. 1-10042)

134

Table of Contents   

135

Table of Contents   

*  

This exhibit constitutes a  management contract or
    compensatory plan, contract, or arrangement.  

**  

These certifications pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
    Section 1350 by the Company s Chief Executive Officer
    and Chief Financial Officer, furnished as Exhibit 32 to this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    will not be deemed to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission or incorporated by reference into any filing by the
    Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent that the Company
    specifically incorporates such certifications by reference. 

136

<EX-12>
 2
 d41478exv12.htm
 STATEMENT OF COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

exv12 

Exhibit 12

Atmos Energy Corporation 
Computation of Earnings to Fixed Charges

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 3
 d41478exv21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

exv21 

Exhibit 21

SUBSIDIARIES OF ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION

State of 
       
     Percent of 

Name 
       
     Incorporation 
       
     Ownership 

ATMOS ENERGY HOLDINGS, INC. 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Energy Corporation)

Delaware

100 
     % 

BLUE FLAME INSURANCE SERVICES, LTD 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Energy Corporation)

Bermuda

100 
     % 

PDH I HOLDING COMPANY, INC 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Energy Corporation)

Texas

100 
     % 

MISSISSIPPI ENERGIES, INC. 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Energy Corporation)

Mississippi

100 
     % 

LEGENDARY LIGHTING, LLC 
(50% owned by Mississippi Energies, Inc.)

Mississippi

50 
     % 

UNITARY GH C PRODUCTS, LLC 
(28% owned by Mississippi Energies, Inc.)

Delaware

28 
     % 

ATMOS ENERGY SERVICES, LLC 
(a limited liability company) 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Energy Holdings, Inc.)

Delaware

100 
     % 

EGASCO, LLC

(a limited liability company) 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Energy Holdings, Inc.)

Texas

100 
     % 

ENERGAS ENERGY SERVICES TRUST 
(a business trust) 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Energy Services, LLC)

Pennsylvania

100 
     % 

UNITED CITIES PROPANE GAS, INC. 
(a wholly-owned subsidiary of Atmos Energy
Holdings, Inc.)

Tennessee

100 
     % 

ENERMART ENERGY SERVICES TRUST  
(a business trust) 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Energy Holdings, Inc.)

Pennsylvania

100 
     % 

ATMOS ENERGY MARKETING, LLC 
(a limited liability company) 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Energy Holdings, Inc.)

Delaware

100 
     % 

State of 
       
     Percent of 

Name 
       
     Incorporation 
       
     Ownership 

ATMOS POWER SYSTEMS, INC. 
(a wholly-owned subsidiary of Atmos Energy
Holdings, Inc.)

Georgia

100 
     % 

ATMOS PIPELINE AND STORAGE, LLC 
(a limited liability company) 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Energy Holdings, Inc.)

Delaware

100 
     % 

UCG STORAGE, INC. 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Pipeline and Storage, LLC)

Delaware

100 
     % 

WKG STORAGE, INC. 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Pipeline and Storage, LLC)

Delaware

100 
     % 

ATMOS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION, INC. 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Pipeline and Storage, LLC)

Delaware

100 
     % 

TRANS LOUISIANA GAS PIPELINE, INC. 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Pipeline and Storage, LLC)

Louisiana

100 
     % 

TRANS LOUISIANA GAS STORAGE, INC. 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Pipeline and Storage, LLC)

Delaware

100 
     % 

ATMOS GATHERING COMPANY, LLC 
(a limited liability company) 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Pipeline and Storage, LLC)

Delaware

100 
     % 

STRAIGHT CREEK GATHERING GP, LLC 
(a limited liability company) 
(wholly-owned by Atmos Gathering Company, LLC,
and general partner of Straight Creek Gathering,
LP)

Delaware

100 
     % 

STRAIGHT CREEK GATHERING, LP 
(a limited partnership) 
(89% of limited partnership interests owned by
Atmos Gathering Company, LLC)

Delaware

89 
     % 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 d41478exv23.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP

exv23 

Exhibit 23

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-3, No.
33-37869; Form S-3 D/A, No. 33-70212; Form S-3, No. 33-58220; Form S-3, No. 33-56915; Form S-3/A,
No. 333-03339; Form S-3/A, No. 333-32475; Form S-3/A, No. 333-50477; Form S-3/A, No. 333-93705;
Form S-3, No. 333-95525; Form S-3, No. 333-75576; Form S-3D, No. 333-113603; Form S-3, No.
333-118706; Form S-4, No. 333-13429; Form S-8, No. 33-68852; Form S-8, No. 33-57687; Form S-8, No.
33-57695; Form S-8, No. 333-32343; Form S-8, No. 333-46337; Form S-8, No. 333-73143; Form S-8, No.
333-73145; Form S-8, No. 333-63738; Form S-8, No. 333-88832; Form S-8, No. 333-116367; and Form
S-8, No. 333-138209) of Atmos Energy Corporation and in the related Prospectuses of our reports
dated November 20, 2006, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and
schedule of Atmos Energy Corporation, Atmos Energy Corporation management s assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting of Atmos Energy Corporation, included in this Annual Report (Form
10-K) for the year ended September 30, 2006.

ERNST   YOUNG LLP

Dallas, Texas 
November 20, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31>
 5
 d41478exv31.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS

exv31 

EXHIBIT 31 

RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Robert W. Best, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Atmos Energy Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provided reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report)
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors: 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

Date:
November 22, 2006

/s/ ROBERT W. BEST

Robert W. Best  

Chairman, President and
      Chief Executive Officer  

I, John P. Reddy, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Atmos Energy Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provided reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report)
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors: 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

Date:
November 22, 2006

/s/ JOHN P. REDDY

John P. Reddy  

Senior Vice
President and 
     Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 6
 d41478exv32.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS

exv32 

Exhibit 32 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
(18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350) 

In connection with the Annual Report of Atmos Energy Corporation (the  Company ) on Form 10-K
for the period ending September 30, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Robert W. Best, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
of the Company, certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to the best of my knowledge:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ ROBERT W. BEST

Robert W. Best  

Chairman, President and 
Chief Executive Officer  

November 22, 2006

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
(18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350) 

In connection with the Annual Report of Atmos Energy Corporation (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for
the period ending September 30, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ), I, John P. Reddy, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to the best of my knowledge:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ JOHN P. REDDY

John P. Reddy  

Senior Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer  

November 22, 2006

</EX-32>

<EX-99>
 7
 d41478exv99.htm
 ANNUAL CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 303A.12

exv99 

Exhibit 99 

Annual CEO Certification 
(Section 303A.12(a)) 

As the Chief Executive Officer of Atmos Energy Corporation, and as required by Section 303A.12(a)
of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual, I hereby certify that as of the date hereof I
am not aware of any violation by the Company of NYSE s Corporate Governance listing standards,
other than has been notified to the Exchange pursuant to Section 303A.12(b) and disclosed as
Exhibit H to the Company s Section 303A Annual Written Affirmation.

By:

/s/ ROBERT W. BEST 

Print Name:

Robert W. Best 

Title:

President, Chairman and CEO 

Certification is:

Without Qualification 

Date:

February 15, 2006 

</EX-99>

