<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20061207_10-K_edgar_data_26076_0001104659-06-080067_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1607319</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>185842</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>977323</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>38</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-080067.hdr.sgml : 20061207
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20061207134954
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-080067
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20061207
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20061207

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CUBIC CORP /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000026076
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC [3829]
		IRS NUMBER:				951678055
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08931
		FILM NUMBER:		061262097

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		9333 BALBOA AVE
		CITY:			SAN DIEGO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92123
		BUSINESS PHONE:		858 623-0489

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		PO BOX 85587
		CITY:			SAN DIEGO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92186-5587

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 G7Rs8JxEqfDrAjFu/qxc4Fa6nwoLkkKb5cABSUlhPZfHtH4+DX58z6YDpalpISXH
 efRySWag1UEUlfsPXle8mQ==

 0001104659-06-080067.txt : 20061207

10-K
 1
 a06-25105_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549   

   FORM 10-K   

   x                                      ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

   For the Fiscal Year Ended
September 30, 2006   

   o                                         TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

   For the Transition Period
from                 to                    

    Commission File Number   1-8931    

   CUBIC CORPORATION   

  Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its
Charter  

9333
Balboa Avenue 
San Diego, California 92123 
  Telephone (858) 277-6780    

  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)
of the Act:  

Common Stock  

American
  Stock Exchange, Inc.   

Title of each
  class  

Name of exchange
  on which registered  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

   None   

  Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  

  Yes   o        No   x        

  Indicated
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  

  Yes   o        No   x        

  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  

  Yes   x      No   o  

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K.  

  Yes   x      No   o  

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer.  

  Yes   x      No   o  

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act)  

  Yes   o      No   x  

  The aggregate market value of 16,029,954 shares of
voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was:   $383,757,000 as of
March 31, 2006, based on the closing stock price on that date.  

  Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of   November 17, 2006
including shares held by affiliates is  :   26,719,663 (after deducting 8,945,066     shares held as treasury
stock).  

  Parts I and III incorporate information by
reference from the Registrant s definitive proxy statement which will be filed
no later than 120 days after the close of the Registrant s year-end, and no
later than 30 days prior to the Annual Shareholders  Meeting.  

    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE:    

  Portions
of the Registrant s Proxy Statement for its 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held on February 20, 2007, are incorporated by reference into
Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

PART I    

   Item 1.          BUSINESS.   

    GENERAL    

  CUBIC CORPORATION ( Cubic  or  the Company ), was incorporated in the
State of California in 1949 and began operations in 1951.  In 1984, the Company moved its corporate
domicile to the State of Delaware.  

  We design, develop, manufacture and install products which are mainly
electronic in nature, such as:  

  Equipment for use in customized
military range instrumentation, training and applications systems, simulators,
communications and surveillance systems, surveillance receivers, power
amplifiers, and avionics systems.  

  Automated revenue collection
systems, including contactless smart cards, passenger gates, central computer
systems and ticket vending machines for mass transit networks, including rail
systems, buses, and parking applications.  

  We also perform a variety of services, such as computer simulation
training, distributed interactive simulation and development of military
training doctrine, as well as field operations and maintenance. We manufacture
replacement parts for the products we produce. 
In addition, we operate a corrugated paper converting facility.  

  In 2006, growth in our defense segment slowed to about 4% from the prior
year.  Compared to 2005,  training systems sales were virtually flat
and mission support services grew by 2%, while our communications and
electronics business grew by 23% due to new contracts we won last year. The
defense segment made one small strategic acquisition of a training systems
business during the year; however, we continue to evaluate possible targets for
future defense-related acquisitions. Transportation systems sales have leveled
off in recent years primarily because of the completion of the initial phase of
the fare collection system in London in 2003. The business has expanded in other
regions to largely offset the decrease in sales in the U.K  

  During fiscal year 2006, approximately 52% of our total business was
conducted, either directly or indirectly, with various agencies of the United
States government.  Most of the remainder
of our revenue was from local, regional and foreign governments or agencies.  

  Cubic s internet address is www.Cubic.com. The content on our website is
available for information purposes only. It should not be relied upon for
investment purposes, nor is it incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.
We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website under the
heading  Investor Information,  our reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon
as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  

2     

BUSINESS SEGMENTS    

  Information regarding the amounts of revenue, operating profit and loss
and identifiable assets attributable to each of our business segments, is set
forth in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended
September 30, 2006. Additional information regarding the amounts of revenue and
operating profit and loss attributable to major classes of products and
services is set forth in Management s Discussion and Analysis which follows at
Item 7.  

    DEFENSE    

  Cubic s defense business segment operates as the Cubic Defense
Applications (CDA) group consisting of three market-focused business units: Training
Systems, Mission Support Services, and Communications   Electronics.  Our products include customized military
range instrumentation systems, tactical engagement simulation systems, firearm
simulation systems, communications and surveillance systems, surveillance
receivers, power amplifiers, and avionics systems.  Our services include training mission
support, computer simulation training, distributed interactive simulation,
development of military training doctrine, and field operations and maintenance.  We market our capabilities directly to
various U.S. government departments and agencies and foreign governments.  In addition, we frequently contract or team
with other leading defense suppliers. In addition to the three business units,
we formed a joint venture with Rafael Armament Development Authority Ltd., an
Israeli company, to produce certain Rafael defense systems in the United States
for Israel and for U.S. customers.  

   Training Systems   

  Our Training Systems Business Unit (TSBU) is a pioneer and market leader
in the design and production of instrumented training systems for military
customers.  These systems generally
permit live training in air and land combat environments, with weapons and
other effects simulated by electronic and/or laser technology.  The systems also enable the collection (based
on Global Positioning System technology) and analysis of behavior and event
data for determination of combat effectiveness and lessons learned.  As such, the systems generally have a high
degree of communications and software sophistication.  

  TSBU s business is organized into Air Combat Training, Land Combat
Training, Tactical Engagement Simulation, and Simulation Systems.  In Air Combat Training, Cubic was the initial
developer and supplier of Air Combat Maneuvering Instrumentation (ACMI)
capability during the Vietnam War and continues to lead that market with the
competitive award in 2003 of a 10-year, $525 million indefinite delivery/
indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contract to provide upgraded air combat training
capability to the U.S. Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps.  The latest ACMI systems permit forces to
train on either a fixed geographic range or in a  rangeless  environment.  Many other nations employ Cubic s ACMI
systems.  

  TSBU s Land Combat Training involves systems analogous to air ranges for
ground force training.  TSBU provided
turnkey systems to instrument two U.S. Army training centers in past years at
Fort Polk, LA (Joint Readiness Training Center   JRTC) and Hohenfels, Germany
(Combat Maneuver Training Center   CMTC) and is engaged in a multiyear effort
to expand capability of the Alaska Training Range.  The unit also built ranges in recent years
for the British Army in the U.K. and Canada. 
TSBU is currently working on similar land combat training centers for
Canada, Australia and for customers in the Middle East and Far East. To meet
new customer demand for mobile instrumented training, TSBU has also developed a
transportable, deployable system, known as I-HITS, now being fielded by the U.S.
Army. In 2005, TSBU was awarded a five-year $72 million IDIQ contract to
produce I-HITS for the U.S. Army.  

  Laser-based Tactical Engagement Simulation systems, generally known as
MILES (Multiple Integrated Laser Engagement Simulators), are used at combat training
centers (CTC) and in other training environments to permit weapons to be used
realistically, registering hits or kills, without live ammunition.  TSBU supplies MILES equipment as part of CTC
contracts and as an independent product line. 
Cubic MILES systems are being heavily utilized by U.S. Army and Marine
Corps forces, as well as Air Force security forces, other U.S. agencies and
many international customers.  We produce
MILES equipment in  

3     

the U.S. and at our New Zealand-based subsidiary, Oscmar International.  In 2005, Cubic was awarded a 5-year $113
million IDIQ contract to produce MILES Individual Weapon System (IWS) kits for
the U. S. Army.  

  TSBU s Simulation Systems Division (SSD) produces virtual training
systems, employing actual or realistic weapons and systems together with visual
imagery to simulate actual battlefield or other environments.  SSD also produces combat system and
maintenance trainers.  

   Mission Support Services   

  CDA s Mission Support Business Unit (MSBU), along with the separate
Force Modernization Division (FMD), is a leading provider of tactical
knowledge-based services to the U.S. Government and allied nations, with an
emphasis on military training.  Our
mission support business consists of approximately 3,300 people at more than
100 locations throughout the world.  Our
personnel serve with clients in their actual environments and prepare forces
through comprehensive training, exercises, education, and operational support
to meet the full scope of their missions, from large scale combat operations,
to special operations, peacekeeping, consequence management, and humanitarian
assistance operations worldwide.  We also
plan, prepare, execute and document realistic and focused mission rehearsal
exercises (including live and computer-based) as final preparation of forces
prior to their deployment to mission areas. 
In addition, we provide high level consultation and advisory services to
the governments and militaries of allied nations.  U.S. government service contracts are
typically awarded on a competitive basis with options for multiple years.  In this competitive market, MSBU and FMD are
viewed as premier service providers and formidable competitors.  We typically compete as prime contractors to
the government, but also team with other companies depending on the skills
required.  Much of our early work
centered on battle command training and simulation, in which military
commanders are taught to make correct decisions in battle situations.  More recently, the business base has broadened
to include integrated live, virtual, and constructive training support,
distance learning, knowledge management, weapons effects modeling, intelligence
analysis, homeland security training and exercises, and military force
modernization.  

  Our programs include providing mission support services to three of the
Army s major CTCs, to the JRTC as prime contractor, and to the National
Training Center (NTC) and Battle Command Training Program (BCTP) as a principal
subcontractor.  These services include
planning, executing and documenting large scale exercises aimed at stressing
U.S. forces in situations as close to actual combat as possible. Cubic is
assisting the Army National Guard in developing and implementing a similar
exportable combat training capability at selected Guard locations in the U.S.  

  At U.S. Joint Forces Command, Cubic supports and helps manage all
aspects of the operations of the Joint Warfighting Center (JWFC), including
support to worldwide exercises and the development and fielding of the Joint
National Training Capability (JNTC).  We
provide similar technical and management support services to the U.S. Army s
National Simulation Center (NSC) at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. On the Marine Air
Ground Task Force Training Systems Support (MTSS) contract, Cubic provides
comprehensive training and exercise support to U.S. Marine forces worldwide,
including real-world mission rehearsals. 
We have planned and executed virtually all Marine Corps simulation-based
exercises worldwide since 1998, directly preparing Marines for combat
operations. Cubic provides contractor logistics and training support necessary
to operate and maintain a wide variety of flight simulation, Unmanned Aerial
Vehicles (UAV), and other facilities worldwide for U.S. and allied forces under
multiple long-term contracts. In addition, we provide a broad range of
operational support to the U.S. Navy s newly-formed Anti-Submarine Warfare
(ASW) Command.  

  Cubic initiated and has continued to operate the Korea Battle Simulation
Centers (KBSC) since their inception in 1991. 
KBSC prepare U.S. and allied forces in Korea to deal with situations
which may develop in their areas of responsibility and include the world s
largest and most complex training event, the annual ULCHI FOCUS LENS exercise.  

  At the U.S. Army I Corps Battle Simulation Center, Cubic provides the
technical and operational expertise necessary to support worldwide training,
exercises, evaluations, and mission rehearsals for I Corps active and reserve
component units, the new Stryker brigades, other services, and joint commands.  

4     

Cubic supports the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) with
technology-based engineering and other services necessary to accomplish DTRA s
mission of predicting and defeating the effects of chemical, biological,
radiological, nuclear and high explosive (CBRNE) weapons.  Cubic supports DTRA with modeling and
simulations to assess and predict the effects of such weapons in combat and
other environments. Additionally, Cubic provides comprehensive support to help
plan, manage, and execute DTRA s worldwide CBRNE exercise program, which trains
senior U.S. and allied civilian and military personnel, first responders, and
other users of DTRA products.  

  Cubic has multiple contracts with the U.S. Army and other government
agencies to improve the quality and reach of training and education initiatives
for individuals up through large organizations. Cubic s products and
capabilities include development and deployment of curriculum and related
courseware, computer-based training, knowledge management and distribution,
advanced distance learning tools, and other advanced education programs for
U.S. and allied forces.  

  FMD s principal business is providing specialized teams of military
experts to advise the governments and militaries of the nations of the former
Warsaw Pact and Soviet Union in the transformation of their militaries to a
NATO environment.  These very broad force
modernization contracts entail both sweeping vision and minute detail,
involving both the nations  strategic foundation and the detailed planning of
all aspects of reform. FMD also operates battle simulation centers for select
countries.  

  We believe the combination and scope of CDA s mission support and
training systems business is unique in the industry, permitting us to offer
customers a complete training and readiness capability from one source.  

   Communications   Electronics   

  Our Communications and Electronics Business Unit (CEBU) is a supplier of
secure data links, intelligence receivers, high power RF amplifiers and search
and rescue avionics systems to the U.S. military, other agencies and allied
nations.  CEBU s products support the
strong military trend toward network-centric warfare and modernization
initiatives.  The unit has long supplied
the air/ground secure data link for the U.S. Army/Air Force Joint STARS system
and supplies the principal datalink for the United Kingdom s ASTOR
program.  Capitalizing on a multiyear
internal R D program, CEBU won a competitive contract in fiscal 2003 to
develop and produce the next-generation Common Data Link Subsystem (CDLS) for
the U.S. Navy.  CDLS is now being
installed on major surface ships of the U.S. fleet.  Smaller, tactical versions of our Common Data
Link have been selected for both legacy and new military platforms, such as
UAV, which require high performance in a small package.  

  CEBU s Personnel Locator System (PLS) is standard equipment on U.S.
aircraft with a search-rescue   mission.  We  have continued to receive orders for an
upgraded PLS which has been redesigned to interface with all modern search and
rescue system standards, thus positioning us for major platform upgrades
expected over the next few years. 

  CEBU has also begun to successfully leverage its communications
products portfolio to move into larger subsystem and system level programs in
the areas of communications interception and jamming (Electronic Warfare) and
communications intelligence.  We have
been awarded contracts by the U.S. Navy and intelligence services for the
initial development of these systems which could evolve to production contracts
and potentially lead to new opportunities within these services.  

    Raw Materials    :  

  The principal raw materials used by the defense segment are sheet
aluminum and steel, copper electrical wire, and composite products.  A significant portion of the segment s end
products are composed of purchased electronic components and subcontracted
parts and supplies. These items are primarily procured from commercial
sources.  In general, supplies of raw
materials and purchased parts are adequate to meet the requirements of the
segment.  

5     

Backlog    :  

   Funded sales backlog of the defense segment at September 30, 2006 was
$509 million compared to $476 million at September 30, 2005.   Total backlog, including unfunded
customer orders, was $763 million at September 30, 2006 compared to $728
million at September 30, 2005.  Approximately
$360 million of the September 30, 2006 total backlog is not expected to be
completed by September 30, 2007.   

    Competition    :  

  CDA s broad defense business portfolio means we compete with numerous
companies, large and small, domestic and international.  In many cases, we have also teamed with these
same companies on specific bid opportunities. 
Well known CDA competitors include Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman,
General Dynamics, Boeing, L3 Communications and SAIC.  While CDA is generally smaller than its
competition, we believe our competitive advantages include past performance,
incumbent relationships and the ability to rapidly focus technology and innovation
to solve customer problems.  

  Competition also exists among projects for funding in the defense
budget.  While the U.S. defense budget
has seen above average increases in recent years, long-term growth will only
occur in those segments which offer very high payoff and are consistent with
warfighting priorities and growing fiscal restraints.  The U.S. defense market today can be
characterized as highly dynamic, with priorities and funding shifting in
reaction to, or anticipation of, world events much more rapidly than during the
Cold War or since.  Overarching military
priorities include lighter, faster, more lethal forces with the ability and
training to rapidly adapt to new situations based on superior knowledge of the
battle environment.  Superior knowledge
is enabled by systems which rapidly collect, process and disseminate the right
information to the right place at the right time, resulting in what DoD calls
network-centric warfare.  We believe
Cubic s training systems, training support and intelligence, surveillance and
reconnaissance capabilities are well matched to these sustainable defense
priorities.  

    TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS    

  Cubic
Transportation Systems ( CTS ) is the leading turnkey solution provider of
automated fare collection systems for public transport authorities
worldwide.  We provide a range of service
and system solutions for the bus, bus rapid transit, light rail, commuter rail,
heavy rail, ferry and parking markets. 
These solutions and services include system design, central computer
systems, equipment design and manufacturing, device-level software,
integration, test, installation, warranty, maintenance, computer hosting
services, call center services, card management and distribution services,
financial clearing and settlement, multi-application support and outsourcing
services.  In addition, CTS designs,
develops and manufactures special technology components, such as smart card
readers and magnetic ticket transports for use within its suite of fare
collection equipment consisting of on-bus solutions, access control solutions,
vending solutions, retail and card issuing solutions, and mobile inspection and
sales solutions.  

  Over
the years, the transportation segment has been awarded over 400 projects in 40
major markets on 5 continents.  Active
projects include London, the New York / New Jersey region, the Washington, D.C.
/ Baltimore / Virginia region, the Los Angeles region, the San Diego region,
San Francisco, Minneapolis/St. Paul, Chicago, Atlanta, Brisbane, Australia, and
Sweden.  

  These
programs provide a base of current business and the potential for additional
future business as the systems are expanded. 
In 1998, Transaction Systems Limited (TranSys), a joint venture company
in which Cubic has a 37.5% ownership, was awarded a contract called  PRESTIGE 
to outsource the London Transport fare collection services.  This 17-year contract, now in its ninth year,
is the largest automated fare collection contract ever awarded.  Our share of the work, including all contract
change orders to date, exceeds $1 billion over the 17-year life of the
contract.  

6     

Industry
Overview    

  Transport
agencies, particularly those based in the U.S., rely heavily on federal, state
and local government for subsidies in capital investments, including new
procurements and/or upgrades of automated fare collection systems.  The average lifecycle for fare collection
systems is 12 to 15 years.  Procurements
tend to follow a long and strict competitive bid process where low price is a
significant factor.  

  The
automated fare collection business is a niche market able to sustain only a
relatively few number of suppliers. 
Because of the long life expectancy of these systems and only a few
companies able to supply them, there is fierce competition to win these jobs,
often resulting in low initial contract profitability.  

  Advances
in communications, networking and security technologies are enabling
interoperability of multiple modes of transportation within a single networked
system as well as interoperability of multiple operators within a single
networked system.  As such, there is a
growing trend for regional ticketing systems, usually built around a large
transit agency and including neighboring operators, all sharing a common
regional smart card.  There is an
emerging trend for other applications to be added to these regional systems to
expand the utility of the smart card, offering higher value and incentives to
the end users and lowering costs and creating new revenue streams for the
regional system operators.  As a result,
these regional systems have created opportunities for new levels of systems
support and services including call center support, smart card production and
distribution, financial clearing and settlement and multi-application
support.  In some cases, operators are
choosing to outsource the ongoing operations and commercialization of these
regional ticketing systems. This growing new market provides the opportunity to
establish lasting relationships and grow revenues and profits over the
long-term.  

    Raw Materials    :  

  Raw materials used in this segment include sheet steel, composite
products, copper electrical wire and castings. A significant portion of the
segment s end product is composed of purchased electronic components and
subcontracted parts and supplies. All of these items are procured from
commercial sources.  In general, supplies
of raw materials and purchased parts are adequate to meet the requirements of
the segment.  

    Backlog    :  

  Funded sales backlog of the transportation systems segment at September
30, 2006 and 2005 amounted to $716 million and $733 million, respectively.
Approximately $525 million of the September 30, 2006 total backlog is not
expected to be completed by September 30, 2007.  

    Competition    :  

  We
are one of several companies involved in providing automated fare collection
systems solutions and services for public transport operators worldwide
including such foreign competitors as Thales, ACS, Scheidt   Bachmann and
ERG.  In addition, there are many smaller
local companies, particularly in European and Asian markets.  For large national tenders, it is common
practice to form consortiums that include, in addition to the fare collection
companies noted above, telecommunications, consulting and computer services companies
including Keane, Siemens, Accenture, Metropolitan Transit Railway Corporation,
Unisys, Computer Sciences Corporation and EDS. 
These procurement activities are very competitive and require that we
have highly skilled and experienced technical personnel to compete. We believe
that our competitive advantages include intermodal and interagency regional
integration expertise, technical skills, past contract performance, systems
quality and reliability, experience in the industry and long-term customer
relationships.  

7     

OTHER OPERATIONS    

  Consolidated
Converting Company converts corrugated paper stock into pizza boxes and other
food related corrugated products.  

    Raw Materials    :  

  Raw materials used by Consolidated Converting Company consist of paper
products which are procured from commercial sources.  In general, supplies of raw materials are
presently adequate to meet the requirements of this business.  Paper shortages could delay completion, or
result in the cancellation, of customer orders.  

    Backlog    :  

  Consolidated Converting Company had little sales backlog at September
30, 2006 and 2005. The business does not track sales backlog due to the
short-term conversion of customer orders into sales and the absence of
long-term contracts.  

    Competition    :  

  This business competes with concerns of varying size, including some
very large companies. It is not possible to predict the extent of the
competition which present or future activities will encounter, particularly
since the market for this subsidiary s products is subject to rapidly changing
competitive conditions.  

    BUSINESS STRATEGY    

  Our
objective is to consistently grow sales, improve profitability and deliver
attractive returns on capital.  We intend
to build on our position with U.S. and foreign governments as the leading full
spectrum supplier of training systems and mission support services, grow our
niche position as a supplier of network-centric technologies for communications
systems and products, and maintain our position as the leading provider of
integrated intermodal regional transit fare collection systems to transit
authorities worldwide. Our strategies to achieve these objectives include:  

    Leverage Long-Term Relationships    

  We
seek to maintain long-term relationships with our customers through repeat
business by continuing to achieve high levels of performance on our existing
contracts.  By achieving this goal we can
leverage our returns through repeat business with existing customers and expand
our presence in the market through sales of similar systems at  good value  to
additional customers.  

  An
example of this in our defense segment is the recent competitive award of a
contract to provide the next generation U.S. mobile ground training
system.  Starting in the early 1980 s we
built sophisticated ground training instrumented facilities for the U.S. and foreign
militaries.  Our experience and
innovation in this area of training technology was a key factor in the recent
award by the U.S. Army of a five year $72 million IDIQ contract for the first
mobile training facilities known as Initial-Homestation Instrumentation
Training System or  I-HITS .  These new
mobile training facilities will be deployed into combat areas and will utilize
the latest in training technologies. Since the initial U.S. Army award in 2005,
we have received four additional awards under this contract for I-HITS
systems.  

  In
our transportation segment we have had a relationship with the Washington
Metropolitan Area Transportation Authority (WMATA) for over 30 years, since we
first implemented their magnetic ticketing system, and have over the years
installed a complete back office system and over 4,000 pieces of
equipment.  In 1999, we upgraded their
system with SmarTrip    , the first contactless smart card
implementation in the U.S. and have since added other applications such as
parking, security access and prepaid transit benefits to the system.  We are currently rolling out the SmarTrip
system to 1,600 

8     

WMATA
buses, to over 2,000 buses throughout the Baltimore and Northern Virginia
region and to the regional rail system. 
We are also supplying a point-of-sale distribution network and upgrading
the central computer system to offer region-wide services and to interface to a
third party operated customer service center. Similarly, we are regionalizing
integrated fare collection systems in London, New York and Southern California.  

    Maintain a Diversified Business Mix    

  We
have a diverse mix of business in our defense and transportation systems
segments. Approximately 52% of our sales are made directly or indirectly to the
U.S. government; however, this represents a wide variety of product and service
sales to many different U.S. government agencies. The largest single contract
in the transportation segment is the PRESTIGE contract in London which
represented about 6% of consolidated sales in 2006. The London area continues
to be one of our strongest markets for transportation systems but we do not
rely significantly on any single customer in the transportation systems market.  

  We also seek a reasonable balance between systems and service work in
both the defense and transportation segments. In aggregate, approximately 40%
of our sales revenue in 2006 was from service type work. We believe that a
strong base of service work helps to smooth the revenue fluctuations inherent
in systems type work.  

    Pursue Strategic Acquisitions    

  Through
selective strategic acquisitions we seek to expand our customer base, broaden
our technical solutions, gain staffing resources and leverage our entry into
related new markets. In our defense segment we acquired a small virtual
training product line in 2006 that broadened our presence in the small arms
virtual training market.  With our
improved financial performance in 2006, we anticipate a renewed focus on
acquisitions in fiscal 2007. We are focused on specific growth opportunities in
the defense marketplace and select market opportunities in transportation.  

    OTHER MATTERS    

  We pursue a policy of seeking patent protection for our products where
deemed advisable, but do not regard ourselves as materially dependent on
patents for the maintenance of our competitive position.  

  We do not engage in any business that is seasonal in nature. Because our
revenues are generated primarily from work on contracts performed by our
employees and subcontractors, first quarter revenues tend to be lower than the
other three quarters due to our policy of providing many of our employees seven
holidays in the first quarter, compared to one or two in each of the other
quarters of the year. This is not necessarily a consistent pattern as it
depends upon actual activities in any given year.  

   The cost of Company sponsored research and development (R D)
activities was $6.1 million, $8.1 million, $5.5 million in 2006, 2005, 2004,
respectively.   We do not rely heavily
on independent R D, as most of our new product development occurs in
conjunction with the performance of work on our contracts. The amount of
contract-required product development activity was $64 million in 2006 compared
to $65 million and $51 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively; however, these costs
are included in cost of sales as they are directly related to contract
performance.   

  We comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding
discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposal of
materials classed as hazardous and/or toxic. Such compliance has no material
effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the
Company.  

  We employed approximately 6,000 persons at September 30, 2006.  

  Our domestic products and services are sold almost entirely by our
employees.  Overseas sales are made
either directly or through representatives or agents.  

9     

RISK FACTORS    

   The following are some of the factors we
believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and
historical results.   Additional
risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently see as
immaterial, may also harm our business. 
If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any such
additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of
operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.  

    We
depend on government contracts for substantially all of our revenues and the
loss of government contracts or a delay or decline in funding of existing or future
government contracts could adversely affect our sales and cash flows and our
ability to fund our growth.    

  Our revenues from
contracts, directly or indirectly, with foreign and United States, state,
regional and local governmental agencies represented more than 95% of our total
revenues in fiscal year 2006.  Although
these various government agencies are subject to common budgetary pressures and
other factors, many of our various government customers exercise independent
purchasing decisions.  Because of the
concentration of business with governmental agencies, we are vulnerable to
adverse changes in our revenues, income and cash flows if a significant number
of our government contracts or subcontracts or prospects are delayed or
canceled for budgetary or other reasons.  

  The factors that could
cause us to lose these contracts or could otherwise materially harm our
business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations include:  

                        re-allocation of
government resources as the result of actual or threatened terrorism or hostile
activities; 

                        budget
constraints affecting government spending generally, or specific departments or
agencies such as U.S. or foreign defense and transit agencies and regional
transit agencies, and changes in fiscal policies or a reduction of available
funding; 

                        changes in
government programs or requirements or their timing; 

                        curtailment of
government s use of technology products and service providers; 

                        the adoption of
new laws or regulations pertaining to government procurement; 

                        government
appropriations delays or shutdowns; 

                        suspension or
prohibition from contracting with the government or any significant agency with
which we conduct business; 

                        impairment of
our reputation or relationships with any significant government agency with
which we conduct business; 

                        impairment of
our ability to provide third-party guarantees and letters of credit; and 

                        delays in the
payment of our invoices by government payment offices. 

    Government
spending priorities may change in a manner adverse to our businesses.    

  In the past, our
businesses have been adversely affected by significant changes in government
spending during periods of declining budgets. 
A significant decline in overall spending, or the decision not to
exercise options to renew contracts, or the loss of or substantial decline in
spending on a large program in which we participate could materially adversely
affect our business, prospects, financial condition or results of
operations.  As an example, the U.S.
defense and intelligence budgets generally, and spending in specific agencies
with which we work, such as the Department of Defense, have declined from time
to time for extended periods since the mid-1980s, resulting in program delays,
program cancellations and a  

10     

slowing of new program
starts.  Although spending on
defense-related programs by the U.S. government has recently increased, future
levels of expenditures and authorizations for those programs may decrease,
remain constant or shift to programs in areas where we do not currently provide
products or services.  

  Even though our contract
periods of performance for a program may exceed one year, Congress must usually
approve funds for a given program each fiscal year and may significantly reduce
funding of a program in a particular year. 
Significant reductions in these appropriations or the amount of new
defense contracts awarded may affect our ability to complete contracts, obtain
new work and grow our business.  Congress
does not always enact spending bills by the beginning of the new fiscal
year.  Such delays leave the affected
agencies under-funded which delays their ability to contract.  Future delays and uncertainties in funding
could impose additional business risks on us.  

    Our contracts with
government agencies may be terminated or modified prior to completion, which
could adversely affect our business.    

  Government contracts
typically contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give
the government agencies rights and remedies not typically found in commercial
contracts, including providing the government agency with the ability to
unilaterally:  

                        terminate our
existing contracts; 

                        reduce the value
of our existing contracts; 

                        modify some of
the terms and conditions in our existing contracts; 

                        suspend or
permanently prohibit us from doing business with the government or with any
specific government agency; 

                        control and
potentially prohibit the export of our products; 

                        cancel or delay
existing multiyear contracts and related orders if the necessary funds for
contract performance for any subsequent year are not appropriated; 

                        decline to
exercise an option to extend an existing multiyear contract; and 

                        claim rights in
technologies and systems invented, developed or produced by us. 

  Most U.S. government
agencies and some other agencies with which we contract can terminate their
contracts with us for convenience, and in that event we generally may recover
only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on the
work completed prior to termination.  If
an agency terminates a contract with us for default, we are denied any recovery
and may be liable for excess costs incurred by the agency in procuring
undelivered items from an alternative source. 
We may receive show-cause or cure notices under contracts that, if not
addressed to the agency s satisfaction, could give the agency the right to
terminate those contracts for default or to cease procuring our services under
those contracts.  

  In the event that any of
our contracts were to be terminated or adversely modified, there may be
significant adverse effects on our revenues, operating costs and income that
would not be recoverable.  

    Failure to retain
existing contracts or win new contracts under competitive bidding processes may
adversely affect our revenue.    

  We obtain most of our
contracts through a competitive bidding process, and substantially all of the
business that we expect to seek in the foreseeable future likely will be
subject to a competitive bidding process. 
Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including:  

                        the need to
compete against companies or teams of companies with more financial and
marketing resources and more experience in bidding on and performing major
contracts than we have; 

                        the need to
compete against companies or teams of companies that may be long-term,
entrenched incumbents for a particular contract for which we are competing and
that have, as a result, greater domain expertise and better customer relations; 

11     

the need to
compete to retain existing contracts that have in the past been awarded to us
on a sole-source basis; 

                        the expense and
delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge new contract
awards; 

                        the need to bid
on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in
unforeseen technological difficulties, cost overruns or both; 

                        the substantial
cost and managerial time and effort, including design, development and
marketing activities, necessary to prepare bids and proposals for contracts
that may not be awarded to us; 

                        the need to
develop, introduce, and implement new and enhanced solutions to our customers 
needs; 

                        the need to
locate and contract with teaming partners and subcontractors; and 

                        the need to
accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to
perform any fixed-price contract that we are awarded. 

  We may not be afforded
the opportunity in the future to bid on contracts that are held by other
companies and are scheduled to expire if the agency decides to extend the existing
contract.  If we are unable to win
particular contracts that are awarded through the competitive bidding process,
we may not be able to operate in the market for services that are provided
under those contracts for a number of years. 
If we win a contract, and upon expiration, if the customer requires
further services of the type provided by the contract, there is frequently a
competitive rebidding process and there can be no assurance that we will win
any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon
expiration or completion of a contract.  

  Because of the complexity
and scheduling of contracting with government agencies, we occasionally incur
costs before receiving contractual funding by the government agency.  In some circumstances, we may not be able to
recover these costs in whole or in part under subsequent contractual actions.  

  If we are unable to
consistently retain existing contracts or win new contract awards, our business
prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely
affected.  

    Government audits of our contracts could result in
a material charge to our earnings and have a negative effect on our cash
position following an audit adjustment.    

  Many of our government
contracts are subject to cost audits which may occur several years after the
period to which the audit relates.  If an
audit identifies significant unallowable costs, we could incur a material
charge to our earnings or reduction in our cash position.  

    Our
international business exposes us to additional risks, including exchange rate
fluctuations, foreign tax and legal regulations and political or economic
instability that could harm our operating results.    

  Our international
operations, including our contract for the London Transport fare collection
system, subject us to risks associated with operating in and selling products
or services in foreign countries, including:  

                        devaluations and
fluctuations in currency exchange rates; 

                        changes in
foreign laws that adversely affect our ability to sell our products or services
or our ability to repatriate profits to the United States; 

                        increases or
impositions of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by
foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures to us; 

                        increases in
investment and other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments in
order to operate in the territory or own the subsidiary; 

                        costs of
compliance with local laws, including labor laws; 

                        export control
regulations and policies which govern our ability to supply foreign customers; 

                        unfamiliar and
unknown business practices and customs; 

12     

domestic and
foreign government policies, including requirements to expend a portion of
program funds locally and governmental industrial cooperation requirements; 

                        the complexity
and necessity of using foreign representatives and consultants; 

                        the uncertainty
of the ability of foreign customers to finance purchases; 

                        imposition of
tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; 

                        the difficulty
of management and operation of an enterprise in various countries; and 

                        economic and
geopolitical developments and conditions, including international hostilities,
acts of terrorism and governmental reactions, inflation, trade relationships
and military and political alliances. 

  Our foreign subsidiaries
and joint ventures generally conduct business in foreign currencies and enter
into contracts and make purchase commitments that are denominated in foreign
currencies.  Accordingly, we are exposed
to fluctuations in exchange rates, which could have a significant impact on our
results of operations.  We have no
control over the factors that generally affect this risk, such as economic,
financial and political events and the supply of and demand for applicable
currencies.  While we use foreign
exchange forward and option contracts to hedge significant contract sales and
purchase commitments that are denominated in foreign currencies, our hedging
strategy may not prevent us from incurring losses due to exchange fluctuations.  

    Our operating margins may decline under our fixed-price
contracts if we fail to estimate accurately the time and resources necessary to
satisfy our obligations.    

  Approximately 74% of our
revenues in 2006 were from fixed-price contracts under which we bear the risk
of cost overruns.  Our profits are
adversely affected if our costs under these contracts exceed the assumptions we
used in bidding for the contract.  Often,
we are required to fix the price for a contract before the project
specifications are finalized, which increases the risk that we will incorrectly
price these contracts. The complexity of many of our engagements makes
accurately estimating the time and resources required more difficult.  

    We may be liable
for civil or criminal penalties under a variety of complex laws and
regulations, and changes in governmental regulations could adversely affect our
business and financial position.    

  Our businesses must
comply with and are affected by various government regulations that impact our
operating costs, profit margins and our internal organization and operation of
our businesses. These regulations affect how we do business and, in some
instances, impose added costs.  Any
changes in applicable laws could adversely affect our financial
performance.  Any material failure to
comply with applicable laws could result in contract termination, price or fee
reductions or suspension or debarment from contracting.  The more significant regulations include:  

                        the Federal
Acquisition Regulations and all department and agency supplements, which
comprehensively regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S.
government contracts; 

                        the Truth in
Negotiations Act and implementing regulations, which require certification and
disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract
negotiations; 

                        laws,
regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of
information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of
certain products and technical data; 

                        regulations of
most state and regional agencies and foreign governments similar to those
described above; 

                        the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and 

                        tax laws and
regulations in the U.S. and in other countries in which we operate. 

13  

Our failure to identify, attract and retain qualified
technical and management personnel could adversely affect our existing
businesses.    

  We may not be able
to attract and retain the highly qualified technical personnel, including
engineers, computer programmers, and personnel with security clearances
required for classified work, or management personnel to supervise such
activities that are necessary for maintaining and growing our existing
businesses.  

    We may incur significant costs in protecting our
intellectual property which could adversely affect our profit margins. Our
inability to protect our patents and proprietary rights could adversely affect
our businesses  prospects and competitive positions.    

  We seek to protect
proprietary technology and inventions through patents and other proprietary-right
protection.  The laws of some foreign
countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of
the United States.  If we are unable to
obtain or maintain these protections, we may not be able to prevent third
parties from using our proprietary rights. In addition, we may incur
significant expense both in protecting our intellectual property and in
defending or assessing claims with respect to intellectual property owned by
others.  

  We also rely on
trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to
remain competitive.  We have taken
measures to protect our trade secrets and know-how, including the use of
confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and advisors.  These agreements may be breached and remedies
for a breach may not be sufficient to compensate us for damages incurred.  We generally control and limit access to our
product documentation and other proprietary information.  Other parties may independently develop our
know-how or otherwise obtain access to our technology.  

    We compete primarily for government contracts
against many companies that are larger, better financed and better known than
us.  If we are unable to compete
effectively, our business and prospects will be adversely affected.    

  Our businesses
operate in highly competitive markets. 
Many of our competitors are larger, better financed and better known
companies who may compete more effectively than we can.  In order to remain competitive, we must keep
our capabilities technically advanced and compete on price and on value added
to our customers.  Our ability to compete
may be adversely affected by limits on our capital resources and our ability to
invest in maintaining and expanding our market share.  

    The terms of our financing arrangements may restrict
our financial and operational flexibility, including our ability to invest in
new business opportunities.    

  We currently have
unsecured borrowing arrangements.  The
terms of these borrowing arrangements include provisions that require and/or
limit our levels of working capital, debt and net worth and coverage of fixed
charges.  We also have provided
performance guarantees to various customers that include financial covenants
including limits on working capital, debt, tangible net worth and cash flow
coverage.  

  We may incur
future obligations that would subject us to additional covenants that affect
our financial and operational flexibility or subject us to different events of
default.  

    Our revenues could be less than expected if we are not
able to deliver services or products as scheduled due to disruptions in supply.    

  Because our
internal manufacturing capacity is limited, we use contract manufacturers.
While we use care in selecting our manufacturers, we have less control over the
reliability of supply, quality and price of products or components than if we
manufactured them.  In some cases, we
obtain products from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers.  Consequently, we risk disruptions in our
supply of key products and components if our suppliers fail or are unable to
perform because of strikes, natural disasters, financial condition or other
factors.  Any material supply disruptions
could adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations under our
contracts and could result in cancellation of contracts or purchase orders,
penalties, delays in realizing revenues, payment delays, as well as adversely
affect our ongoing product cost structure.  

14     

Failure
to perform by one of our subcontractors could materially and adversely affect
our prime contract performance and our ability to obtain future business.    

  Our performance of
contracts may involve subcontractors, upon which we rely to deliver the
products to our customers.  We may have
disputes with subcontractors.  A failure
by a subcontractor to satisfactorily deliver products or services may adversely
affect our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor.  Any subcontractor performance deficiencies
could result in the customer terminating our contract for default, which could
expose us to liability for excess costs of reprocurement by the customer and
have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for other contracts.  

    We
may acquire other companies, which could increase our costs or liabilities or
be disruptive.    

  Part of our
strategy involves the acquisition of other companies.  We may not be able to integrate acquired
entities successfully without substantial expense, delay or operational or
financial problems.  The acquisition and
integration of new businesses involves risk. 
The integration of acquired businesses may be costly and may adversely
impact our results of operations or financial condition:  

                        we
may need to divert management resources to integration, which may adversely
affect our ability to pursue other more profitable activities; 

                        integration
may be difficult as a result of the necessity of coordinating geographically
separated organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business
backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures; 

                        we
may not eliminate redundant costs in selecting acquisition candidates; and 

                        one
or more of our acquisition candidates may also have unexpected liabilities or
adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through our due diligence
procedures prior to the acquisition. 

    Our results of operations have historically fluctuated
and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, which could
adversely affect the market price of our common stock.    

  Our revenues are
affected by factors such as the unpredictability of contract awards due to the
long procurement process for most of our products and services, the potential
fluctuation of governmental agency budgets, the time it takes for the new
markets we target to develop and for us to develop and provide products and
services for those markets, competition and general economic conditions.  Our contract type/product mix and unit
volume, our ability to keep expenses within budget, and our pricing affect our
operating margins. Significant growth in costs to complete our contracts, such
as we experienced in our transportation systems business in 2005 and 2006, may
adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. These factors and
other risk factors described herein may adversely affect our results of
operations and cause our financial results to fluctuate significantly on a
quarterly or annual basis.  Consequently,
we do not believe that comparison of our results of operations from period to
period is necessarily meaningful or predictive of our likely future results of
operations. In some future financial period our operating results may be below
the expectations of public market analysts or investors.  If so, the market price of our securities may
decline significantly.  

15     

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING
INFORMATION    

  This report,
including the documents that we incorporate by reference, contains
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that are subject to the  safe harbor  created
by those sections. Any statements about our expectations, beliefs, plans,
objectives, assumptions or future events or our future financial and/or
operating performance are not historical and may be forward-looking. These
statements are often, but not always, made through the use of words or phrases
such as  may,   will,   anticipate,   estimate,   plan,   project,   continuing, 
 ongoing,   expect,   believe,   intend,   predict,   potential,   opportunity 
and similar words or phrases or the negatives of these words or phrases.  These statements involve estimates,
assumptions and uncertainties, including those discussed in  Risk Factors  and
elsewhere throughout this filing and in the documents incorporated by reference
into this filing that could cause actual results to differ materially from
those expressed in these statements.  

  Because the risk
factors referred to above could cause actual results or outcomes to differ
materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or
on our behalf, you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking
statements.  In addition, past financial
and/or operating performance is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future
performance and you should not use our historical performance to anticipate
results or future period trends. 
Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on
which it is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking
statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the
statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New
factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict
which factors will arise. In addition, we cannot assess the impact of each
factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of
factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in
any forward-looking statements.  

16     

Item 2.                 PROPERTIES .  

  We
conduct our operations in approximately 1.6 million square feet of both owned
and leased properties located in the United States and foreign countries.  We own approximately 74% of the square
footage, including 517,000 square feet located in San Diego, California and
468,000 square feet located in Orlando, Florida.  All owned and leased properties are
considered in good condition and, with the exception of the Orlando facility,
adequately utilized.  The following table
identifies significant properties by business segment:  

Location of Property 

Owned or Leased   

Corporate
  Headquarters:    

San Diego, CA  

Owned  

Defense:    

Arlington, VA  

Leased  

Auckland, New
  Zealand  

Leased  

Hampton, VA  

Leased  

Honolulu, HI  

Leased  

Kingstowne, VA  

Leased  

Lacey, WA  

Leased  

Leavenworth, KS  

Leased  

Orlando, FL  

Leased and owned  

San Diego, CA  

Leased and owned  

Shalimar, FL  

Leased  

Singapore  

Leased  

Tijuana, Mexico  

Leased  

Transportation
  Systems:    

Auburn, NSW
  Australia  

Leased  

Glostrup,
  Denmark  

Leased  

Chantilly, VA  

Leased  

Frankfurt,
  Germany  

Leased  

London, England  

Leased  

Los Angeles, CA  

Leased  

Montreal, Canada  

Leased  

New York, NY  

Leased and owned  

Merthsham,
  Surrey, England  

Leased  

Salfords,
  Surrey, England  

Owned  

San Diego, CA  

Owned  

Tullahoma, TN  

Owned  

Other:    

Whittier, CA  

Leased  

Investment
  properties:    

Teterboro, NJ  

Leased  

Vancouver,
  Canada  

Leased  

17     

Item 3.                 LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS .  

  In 1991, the government of
Iran commenced an arbitration proceeding against the Company seeking $12.9
million for reimbursement of payments made for equipment that was to comprise
an Air Combat Maneuvering Range pursuant to a sales contract and an
installation contract executed in 1977, and an additional $15 million for
unspecified damages. The Company contested the action and brought a
counterclaim for compensatory damages of $10.4 million.  In May 1997, the arbitral tribunal awarded the
government of Iran $2.8 million, plus simple interest at the rate of 12% per
annum from September 21, 1991 through May 5, 1997. In December 1998, the United
States District Court granted a motion by the government of Iran confirming the
arbitral award but denied Iran s request for additional interest and costs.
Both parties have appealed. In October 2004, the 9  th   Circuit Court of Appeals issued a decision in
the case of two interveners who are attempting to claim an attachment on the
amount that was awarded to Iran in the original arbitration. The Court denied
one of the intervener s liens but confirmed the second one s lien. Iran asked
the U.S. Supreme Court to review the 9  th   Circuit decision and to void the initial
judgment against it. In 2006, the Supreme Court returned the case to the 9  th   Circuit for reconsideration,
suggesting that the claimed lien cannot be enforced. The dispute between Iran
and Cubic is on hold in the 9  th   Circuit and the obligation upon Cubic to pay
is stayed. Under current United States law and policy, any payment to the
Revolutionary Government of Iran must first be licensed by the U.S. government.
The Company is unaware of the likelihood of the U.S. government granting such a
license. The Company is continuing to pursue its appeal in the 9  th   Circuit case against Iran, and
management believes that a license from the U.S. government would be required
in any case to make payment to or on behalf of Iran. However, in light of the 9  th   Circuit Court s decision in the
related intervener s case, in 2004 the Company established a reserve of $6
million for the estimated potential liability and will continue to accrue
interest on this amount until the ultimate outcome of the case is determined.  

  In January 2005, a bus fare collection system
customer in North America issued a  cure notice  to the Company, alleging that
its performance was not in accord with the contract. After unsuccessful
negotiations with the customer, in March 2005, the Company filed for a
temporary restraining order requesting that the customer be restrained from
further interfering with the Company s performance and from issuing a
termination notice. The next business day, the customer issued a letter
terminating the contract for default. In April 2005, the customer filed a claim
for breach of contract, seeking damages for  all actual, consequential and
liquidated damages sustained  as well as attorney s fees. The contract limits
liability to the contract value of $8.2 million, but the customer appears to be
attempting to avoid that limitation. In May 2005, the Company filed an answer
and general denial and subsequently filed a verified petition alleging breach
of contract and other substantive claims, claiming the amount owed under the
contract of $4.2 million, plus interest and attorney s fees. Management
believes that both the customer s default notice and claim for damages are
unsupported and the Company is vigorously defending against the allegations.
Based on the advice of counsel, management believes the Company had substantially
completed the contract prior to termination and that the remaining contract
value is due and that the Company will prevail at trial; therefore, no
liability has been recorded for the former customer s claim as of September 30,
2006. However, due to the uncertainty of collecting the outstanding receivable
balance an allowance for doubtful accounts of $4.2 million was established and
all costs incurred in the performance of the contract and costs incurred
outside the scope of the contract were expensed in the year ended September 30,
2005.  

  In June 2005, a company
that Cubic had an alleged agreement with to potentially bid on a portion of
automated fare collection contracts filed a court claim for breach of contract,
fraud, negligent misrepresentation, theft of trade secrets, and other related
allegations. The claim seeks $15.0 million in compensatory damages, punitive
damages, disgorgement of profits and a permanent injunction. In accordance with
the underlying contract arbitration clause, in July 2005 the Company filed a
claim with the American Arbitration Association and requested the court case be
stayed or dismissed. The Court denied the Company s motion to transfer the case
to arbitration. The Company has appealed that decision to the California Court
of Appeals. Based on information currently available, management believes there
is no merit to the claim and that it will prevail in this matter. Therefore, no
liability has been recorded as of September 30, 2006.  

18     

From time-to-time, agencies of the U.S. and foreign governments may
investigate whether the Company s operations are being conducted in accordance
with applicable regulatory requirements. Such investigations, whether relating
to government contracts or conducted for other reasons, could result in
administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines or
penalties being imposed upon the Company, or could lead to suspension or
debarment from future government contracting. 
Government investigations often take years to complete and most result
in no adverse action against the Company.  

  The Company is not a party to any other material
pending proceedings and management considers all other matters to be ordinary
proceedings incidental to the business. Management believes the outcome of
these proceedings and the proceedings described above will not have a
materially adverse effect on the Company s financial position.  

   Item 4.                 SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS .  

  Information
regarding submission of matters to a vote of security holders is incorporated
herein by reference from our definitive Proxy Statement, which will be filed no
later than 30 days prior to the date of the Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  

    PART II    

   Item 5.                 MARKET
FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY    HOLDER MATTERS   .  

  The
principal market on which our common stock is being traded is the American
Stock Exchange under the symbol CUB.  The
closing high and low sales prices for the stock, as reported in the
consolidated transaction reporting system on the American Stock Exchange for
the quarterly periods during the past two fiscal years, and dividend
information for those periods, are as follows:  

  MARKET
AND DIVIDEND INFORMATION  

On November 17, 2006, the closing price of our common stock on the
American Stock Exchange was $21.86.  

  There were approximately 1,100 shareholders of record of our common
stock as of November 17, 2006.  

19     

Item 6.                 SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA .  

  FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS AND SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED
OPERATIONS  

  (amounts in thousands, except per share data)  

This summary should be
read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements and  accompanying notes.  

20     

Item 7.                 MANAGEMENT S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS .  

  Our two primary businesses are in the defense and transportation industries. For the year ended September 30, 2006, 69% of sales were derived from defense, while 31% were derived from transportation fare collection systems and other commercial operations. These are high technology businesses that design, manufacture and integrate complex systems to meet the needs of various federal and regional government agencies in the U.S. and other nations around the world. The U.S. Government remains our largest customer, accounting for approximately 52% of sales in 2006 compared to 53% in 2005 and 50% in 2004.  

  Cubic Defense Applications (CDA) is organized into
three market-focused business units: Training Systems Business Unit (TSBU),
Mission Support Services Business Unit (MSBU), and Communications  
Electronics Business Unit (CEBU).  The
segment is a diversified supplier of constructive, live and virtual military
training systems, services and communication systems and products to the U.S.
Department of Defense, other government agencies and allied nations. We design
instrumented range systems for fighter aircraft, armored vehicles and infantry
force-on-force live training; weapons effects simulations; laser-based tactical
and communication systems; and precision gunnery solutions.  Our services are focused on training mission
support, computer simulation training, distributed interactive simulation,
development of military training doctrine, force modernization services for
NATO entrants and field operations and maintenance. Our communications products
are aimed at intelligence, surveillance, and search and rescue markets. The
segment also has a 50% interest in a joint venture which in 2006 received its
first contracts to produce certain advanced tactical systems for the U.S. and
Israel.  

  Cubic Transportation Systems develops and delivers
innovative fare collection systems for public transit authorities
worldwide.  We provide hardware, software
and multiagency, multimodal transportation integration technologies and
services that allow the agencies to efficiently collect fares, manage their
operations, reduce shrinkage and make using public transit a more convenient
and attractive option for commuters.  

    Consolidated Overview    

  Sales in fiscal
2006 increased by 2% to $821.4 million compared to $804.4 million in 2005.
Sales in 2005 represented an 11% increase over 2004 sales of $722.0 million.
The sales growth in both 2005 and 2006 came from our defense segment, while
transportation systems sales were nearly flat for the three year period from
2004 to 2006. Essentially all the growth in defense sales in both years came
from existing businesses, with an immaterial amount coming from a small strategic
acquisition we made in 2006. We also made two small transportation systems
acquisitions, one at the end of 2004 and one early in 2005, which added about
$4.3 million and $9.1 million to fiscal 2006 and 2005 transportation systems
sales, respectively.  See
the segment discussions following for further analysis of segment sales. 

  Operating income more than doubled in 2006 to $30.9 million from $13.1
million in 2005. The primary reason for the improvement in 2006 was that our
transportation business returned to profitability after having incurred an
operating loss in fiscal 2005. Defense operating income also increased in 2006,
at a slightly better rate than the growth in defense sales. Costs of compliance
with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which are included in
corporate and other costs in our segment reporting, decreased in fiscal 2006 to
$0.9 million compared to $1.4 million in 2005, our initial year of compliance.
Operating income decreased by 76% in 2005 from 2004 operating income of $54.2
million. The primary reason for the large decrease was the operating loss
incurred in 2005 by our transportation systems segment, in addition to a small
decrease in defense operating income. See the segment discussions following for
further details of segment operating results.  

  Net income more
than doubled from $11.6 million ($0.44 per share) in 2005 to $24.1 million
($.90 per share) in 2006, primarily because of the improvement in
transportation systems operating results. Net income in 2005 had dropped from
the 2004 level of $36.9 million ($1.38 per share) primarily because of the
operating loss in transportation systems in 2005, and was further impacted by
the decrease in defense segment operating income in that year. Approximately
$4.3 million, after applicable income taxes, of the  

21     

2006 net income
was from  a gain on the
sale of real estate that had been held for investment purposes for many years,
but was sold in the first quarter of the fiscal year. Approximately $2.8
million of the 2005 net income was from a reduction in tax contingency
reserves in the fourth quarter, while $2.3 million, after taxes, of the 2004
net income was from a gain on the sale of a life insurance policy in the third
quarter. In 2004, a loss provision for a legal matter had also reduced net
income in the fourth quarter by approximately $3.8 million after taxes. 

  The gross margin from product sales improved slightly
in 2006 to 16.0% from 15.1% in 2005, due to improved performance in the
transportation systems segment. However, cost growth on a training systems
contract in the defense segment and on several transportation systems contracts
in 2006, kept the gross margin from products lower than the 2004 level of
26.6%.  The gross margin from service
sales was 16.9% in 2006, compared to 18.1% in 2005 and 19.6% in 2004. The
primary cause of the decreasing service gross margin during the three year
period was lower sales from a service contract in Europe that had generated
higher than average gross margins. This contract continues to decrease in scope
and is expected to be completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2007.  

  Selling, general and administrative
(SG A) expenses decreased to 11.8% of sales in 2006 compared to 13.8% in
2005 and 14.8% in 2004. SG A expenses were $13.5 million lower in 2006 than
in 2005, with the decrease coming from both segments. In 2005, the defense
segment incurred higher than normal selling expenses related to contract
proposals, while such activities returned to a more normal level in 2006. Lower
transportation systems selling expenses and staffing reductions contributed to
reduced SG A expenses in that segment. In addition, an allowance for
doubtful accounts provision of more than $4 million had contributed to higher
SG A expenses in transportation systems in 2005. Transportation systems
SG A expenses decreased in 2005 despite the allowance for doubtful accounts
provision, due to a reduction in legal, consulting and engineering support
costs incurred in 2004 related to a contractual dispute with a former subcontractor.  

  Company sponsored
research and development (R D) spending decreased in 2006 from the 2005
level, however, R D costs continued to be incurred primarily in connection
with customer funded activities. We do not rely heavily on company sponsored R D,
as most of our new product development occurs in conjunction with the
performance of work on our contracts. The amount of contract required
development activity in 2006 was $64 million, compared to $65 million in 2005
and $51 million in 2004; however, these costs are included in cost of sales as
they are directly related to contract performance.  

  Interest and
dividend income increased in 2006 over both 2005 and 2004 due primarily to
higher interest rates in 2006. Other income was lower in 2006 than in 2005 and
2004 due in part to lower rental income, resulting from the sale of the real
estate mentioned above. Other income in 2005 had also included higher foreign
currency exchange gains on intercompany advances to our U.K. subsidiary.
Interest expense decreased in 2006 from the 2005 level primarily because of a
reduction in long-term borrowings. Interest expense was higher in both 2005 and
2006 than in 2004 due primarily to higher levels of short-term borrowings
during each of those years.  

  Our effective tax
rate for 2006 was 33.6% of pretax income compared to 3.7% in 2005 and 34.4% in
2004. Tax expense in 2006 included a provision of $1.6 million for taxes due
upon the repatriation of capital to the U.S. from our U.K. subsidiary during
the year. The effective rate in both 2006 and 2005 benefited from the reversal
of tax contingency provisions amounting to $1.1 million and $2.8 million,
respectively. Our effective tax rate could be affected in future years by,
among other factors, the mix of business between U.S. and foreign
jurisdictions, our ability to take advantage of available tax credits, and
audits of our records by taxing authorities.  

  In December 2004, Financial Accounting Standards Board Position
109-2 was issued and established standards for how an issuer accounts for a
special one-time dividends received deduction on the repatriation of certain
foreign earnings to a U.S. taxpayer pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act
of 2004 (the Act). The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) staff
believes that the lack of clarification of certain provisions within the Act
and the timing of the enactment necessitated a practical exception to the
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes   

22     

(SFAS 109), requirement to reflect in the period of enactment the
effect of a new tax law. Accordingly, an enterprise was allowed time beyond the
financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Act on
its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of
applying SFAS 109. We determined during the third fiscal quarter of 2006 that
we had sufficient information to make an informed decision on the impact of the
Act on our repatriation plans and a provision of $1.5 million was recorded at
that time. In the fourth quarter, an extraordinary dividend, as defined by the
Act, was paid by our U.K. subsidiary amounting to $48.3 million.  

  In light of this
extraordinary dividend and changing market conditions, we have reevaluated our
capital requirements in Europe to determine what portion of our investment can
be considered indefinitely reinvested. Our analysis determined that the level
of investment we currently have in Europe will be required for the foreseeable
future and is considered indefinitely reinvested; therefore, no provision for
taxes due upon repatriation has been provided. However, we currently have no
firm plans to invest further capital in Europe, so we have concluded that we
will provide for U.S. taxes on future earnings in Europe until such time as our
plans for investment in Europe become solidified.  

  Tax legislation enacted in 2004 repealed the Extraterritorial Income
(ETI) exclusion relating to export sales. Over a transition period which began
in 2005, the new tax rules phase-out the ETI exclusion benefit and provide for
a new tax deduction in computing profits from the sale of products manufactured
in the United States. The tax benefit we may realize from the new legislation
is expected to be substantially equivalent to the benefit we realized under the
repealed ETI exclusion; however, changing business conditions could affect this
benefit in the future.  

    Defense
Segment    

As depicted in the table above, sales from our defense segment
increased 4% in 2006 to $562.8 million from $543.4 million in 2005, after
having increased by 20% in 2005 from the 2004 level of $452.9 million. All
defense business units generated higher sales in 2006, with the biggest
increase coming from CEBU. In 2005 sales from CEBU decreased from the 2004
level, while the other defense business units experienced significant growth.
The caption  Tactical systems and other  in the table above includes operating
results of our 50% owned joint venture company as well as advanced programs for
the development of new defense technologies. The joint venture company began
work on its first contracts in 2006, which is reflected in the sales amounts
above.  

  Operating income
in our defense segment increased to $31.4 million in 2006 from $30.1 million in
2005, a 4% increase, after having decreased in 2005 by 13% from $34.5 million
in 2004. The increase in 2006 operating income was primarily due to a
turnaround to profitability in CEBU, which incurred an operating loss in 2005.
MSBU operating income increased in both 2005 and 2006, while TSBU operating
income decreased by nearly 50% in 2006 after having increased in 2005. The
joint venture company incurred  

23     

operating losses
of $2.0 million and $1.3 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively, and is not
expected to generate operating profits in the near term as it is still in its
start-up phase. Operating income amounts in the above table for 2005 and 2004
have been revised from previous reports to conform to the 2006 method of
allocating corporate costs to the business units.  

   Communications and Electronics (CEBU)   

  Sales from CEBU increased from $52.5 million in 2005 to $64.6 million
in 2006, a 23% increase, after having decreased 20% in 2005 from the 2004 level
of $65.5 million. The business unit has gone through a transition during this
time period as new data link technology has been developed to replace legacy
data link systems and the business unit has transitioned to building more power
amplifiers than surveillance receivers. The sales increase in 2006 came
primarily from contracts for the new data link technology, in addition to
growth in sales of avionics products and power amplifiers. Sales in 2005 had
decreased primarily because of the completion of contracts for legacy data
links in 2004.  

  Operating income from CEBU also reflects the transition that has taken
place during this period. Operating income improved to $3.9 million in
2006 from the operating loss of $4.8 million incurred in 2005. Operating income
in 2006 came primarily from the sale of power amplifiers and data links, in
addition to the favorable settlement of a long-standing dispute with a customer
during the year, which added $1.2 million to operating income. The operating
loss in communications and electronics in 2005 was primarily due to cost growth
totaling nearly $5 million on two contracts, one a program for the development
of new data link technology and the other a program involving a new
intelligence application of our data link and receiver technology. In addition,
approximately $2 million in overstocked or obsolete surveillance receiver
inventory was written down in value to zero in 2005. CEBU operating income was
bolstered in 2004 by high margins on a legacy data link contract with a foreign
customer, which was completed that year. Avionics products, such as our
personnel locator systems had also generated higher operating income in 2004;
however, this was offset by operating losses from the surveillance receiver product
line.  

   Training Systems (TSBU)   

  Sales of training systems were virtually flat from 2005, increasing
slightly to $228.0 million in 2006 compared to $227.9 million in 2005, after
having increased in 2005 by 25% from $181.6 million in 2004.  Air combat training and laser engagement
systems (MILES) sales increased in 2006 compared to 2005 while ground combat
training sales decreased slightly from the 2005 level. Delayed U.S. government
funding for small arms training systems in 2006 also resulted in lower sales
from this product line. Work continued in 2006 on development of the next
generation air combat training system known as P5 and on ground combat training
ranges in Canada, Australia and the Middle East. Sales in 2005 increased over
2004 as a result of growth in sales from these air and ground combat training
systems as well as the MILES product line.  

  TSBU operating income fell nearly 50% to $9.7 million in 2006 from
$18.2 million in 2005. The primary reason for the decrease was cost growth of
$4.6 million that was accrued on a contract for the development of a ground
combat training system for a foreign customer. In addition, operating income
from small arms training systems was lower, due to planned development costs of
$1.9 million for new weapons simulations systems for this product line in
an effort to become more competitive. This major weapons simulations
development effort is now complete. Lower sales of small arms virtual training
systems, as mentioned above, further impacted operating income from this
product line. Operating income in 2005 was up by 20% from 2004 operating income
of $15.2 million. This increase was the result of higher sales from ground
combat training and MILES contracts.  

   Mission Support Services (MSBU)   

  Sales from MSBU increased in 2006 to $262.9 million compared to $257.0
million in 2005, a 2% increase. This increase followed a 27% sales increase in
2005 from $202.4 million in 2004. The increase in 2006 sales came despite a $20
million decrease in sales from the Joint Readiness Training Center (JRTC)
contract in Fort Polk, LA, due to a reduction in training exercises conducted
by the customer.  Sales from all MSBU contracts other than the
JRTC increased by 15% between 2005 and 2006, as the result of both new
contracts and the expansion of existing programs. The most significant growth
in 2006 sales came from contracts for 

24     

modeling the effects of weapons of mass destruction. Sales in 2005 grew
from the 2004 level due primarily to higher sales from the JRTC contract
because of an increase in training exercises that year. Sales from contracts
for modeling the effects of weapons of mass destruction also increased in 2005
over the 2004 level.  

  Operating income from MSBU increased in 2006 to $20.6 million from
$17.9 million in 2005, an increase of 15%. Operating income in 2005 increased
46% over the 2004 level of $12.3 million. Operating income as a percentage of
sales increased during the three year period due to improved operating
performance on several contracts and due to sales growth without a proportional
increase in SG A expenses. Operating income as a percentage of sales
increased to 7.8% in 2006, compared to 7.0% in 2005 and 6.1% in 2004.  

    Transportation Systems Segment    

  Transportation
systems sales trended down slightly for the 2004 to 2006 period. Sales for 2006
were $243.9 million compared to $245.8 million in 2005 and $253.5 million in
2004. Sales in North America increased in 2006 compared to 2005, while sales in
Australia decreased and European sales were consistent from year to year.
Increased sales from a contract in Sweden in 2006 helped to offset  an anticipated decrease in sales from the
PRESTIGE contract in London and from European service contracts. As we have
discussed in previous reports, the PRESTIGE system is in the operations and
maintenance phase, which generates lower sales than the system design and
installation phase. Service sales were lower in Europe primarily because of the
gradual phase-out of old ticket issuing equipment which is being replaced by
modern equipment requiring less maintenance. We are competing for the contracts
to provide the new equipment and have been successful in winning a portion of
the work awarded thus far. In addition, we completed a contract for the
maintenance of communications equipment in London at the end of fiscal 2005
which was not renewed in 2006, further impacting service sales. The
reduction in sales in 2005 from 2004 resulted from a decrease in North American
sales by 15%, while sales in Australia and Europe increased about 14%. We anticipate lower sales from the
transportation systems segment in fiscal 2007 due to the expected completion of
several systems contracts in North America and a decrease in opportunities to
sell new systems in the near term. 

  We made
acquisitions of two small parking system companies, one at the end of 2004 and
one early in 2005, which added $4.3 million and $9.1 million, respectively, to
fiscal 2006 and 2005 transportation product sales in North America.  

  The transportation
systems segment returned to profitability in 2006, with operating income of
$2.8 million, compared to an operating loss of $13.8 million in 2005 and
operating income of $28.2 million in 2004. In 2006, healthy operating income
from contracts in Europe was partially offset by operating losses on contracts
in North America and Australia.  Projected costs to complete fare collection systems on several
North American and one Australian contract increased by approximately $21 million more than we had estimated last
year; therefore, we recorded a loss of that amount on these contracts during
the year. The primary cause of the cost growth was an increase in engineering
hours incurred to complete the projects, in addition to project management
costs incurred due to delays in project completion. This compares to cost
growth of approximately $28 million on these contracts in 2005. 

  The design, manufacture and a substantial portion of the installation
of equipment on the North American and Australian contracts referred to above
is complete. Nevertheless, there continues to be risk that we will not be able
to complete these contracts within our current estimates. These risks include
potential higher costs for integration, customer-caused delays in the
installation of hardware and other customer directed changes. We also believe
that customer directed work outside the scope of the contracts and customer
delay of progress toward completion of these contracts has resulted in a
portion of the cost growth we have already experienced. We are continuing to assess
the contractual basis for claims on these contracts and measuring the cost
impact related to these customer required changes to the scope of work. While
we believe we are entitled to recover some of the additional costs we have
incurred and costs we may incur in the future due to customer delays or
changes, the amount of recovery from claims cannot be determined at this time.
Therefore, all related costs have been expensed and no revenues from these
claims have been recorded to date.  

  Also included in the results described above are operating losses of
$3.4 million in 2006 and $4.5 million  

25  

in 2005 from the parking businesses we acquired in late 2004 and early
2005. This was the result of cost growth on two contracts as well a lack of
sufficient sales volume to absorb the overhead costs of the business. These
businesses have now been incorporated into our other North American operations.  

  In 2005 we also recorded an allowance of $4.2 million for doubtful
collection of an accounts receivable balance with a customer that terminated
its contract with us. This provision is included in 2005 SG A expenses in
the consolidated statement of income. We believe that we have substantially
performed the requirements of the contract such that this payment is due to us
and we believe the termination attempt by this customer is unwarranted.  

    Backlog    

In addition to the
amounts identified above, the company has been selected as a participant in or,
in some cases, the sole contractor for several substantial Indefinite delivery/
indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts. 
IDIQ contracts are not included in backlog until an order is received.  

  The difference
between total backlog and funded backlog represents options under multiyear
service contracts. Funding for these contracts comes from annual operating
budgets of the U.S. government and the options are normally exercised annually.
Options for the purchase of additional systems or equipment are not included in
backlog until exercised.  

    New
Accounting Standards    

  On July 13, 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48), which is effective for fiscal
years beginning after December 31, 2006. The purpose of FIN 48 is to clarify
and set forth consistent rules for accounting for uncertain tax positions in
accordance with FAS 109,  Accounting for
Income Taxes . The cumulative effect of applying the provisions of
this interpretation are required to be reported separately as an adjustment to
the opening balance of retained earnings in the year of adoption. We are in the
process of reviewing and evaluating FIN 48, and therefore the ultimate impact
of its adoption is not yet known.  

  In September 2006, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board published FASB Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 158 (SFAS 158),    Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,    to require an employer
to fully recognize the obligations associated with  

26     

single-employer defined
benefit pension, retiree healthcare, and other postretirement plans in their
financial statements. The new standard is effective for fiscal years ending
after December 15, 2006.  Previous standards
required an employer to disclose the complete funded status of its plan only in
the notes to the financial statements. Moreover, because those standards
allowed an employer to delay recognition of certain changes in plan assets and
obligations that affected the costs of providing benefits, employers reported
an asset or liability that almost always differed from the plan s funded
status. Under SFAS 158, a defined benefit postretirement plan sponsor that is a
public or private company or a nongovernmental not-for-profit organization must
(a) recognize in its statement of financial position an asset for a plan s
overfunded status or a liability for the plan s underfunded status, (b) measure
the plan s assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of
the end of the employer s fiscal year (with limited exceptions), and (c)
recognize, as a component of other comprehensive income, the changes in the
funded status of the plan that arise during the year but are not recognized as
components of net periodic benefit cost pursuant to SFAS 87,    Employers 
Accounting for Pensions,    or SFAS 106,    Employers  Accounting for Postretirement
Benefits Other Than Pensions.    SFAS 158 also requires an
employer to disclose in the notes to financial statements additional
information on how delayed recognition of certain changes in the funded status
of a defined benefit postretirement plan affects net periodic benefit cost for
the next fiscal year.  We are in the
process of reviewing and evaluating SFAS 158, and therefore the ultimate impact
of its adoption in not yet known.  

  In May 2005, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  (SFAS 154). This
Statement replaces APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting Changes,  and SFAS 3,  Reporting
Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements.  SFAS 154 sets forth
new guidelines on accounting for voluntary changes in accounting principle and
requires certain disclosures. It also applies to the unusual situation in which
an accounting pronouncement is issued but does not include specific transition
guidelines. This Statement requires such accounting principle changes to be
applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented and an adjustment to the
balance of assets or liabilities affected along with an offsetting adjustment to
retained earnings for the cumulative effect on periods prior to those
presented. This Statement carries forward without change the guidance in APB
Opinion No. 20 for reporting the correction of an error and a change in
accounting estimate. SFAS 154 will be effective for the Company beginning with
fiscal year 2007.  

    Liquidity
and Capital Resources    

  Cash flows from
operations totaled $31.4 million in 2006 compared to $54.7 million in 2005.
Operating activities had used cash of $28.2 million in 2004. A decrease in
accounts receivable of $5.8 million in 2006 and $38.5 million in 2005
contributed to the positive cash flows. Both the defense and transportation
systems segments generated positive cash flows in 2006, with the larger amount
contributed by transportation systems. Operating cash flows from the defense
segment were positive in all three years, while transportation systems
operating cash flows were positive in 2006 and 2005 after having been negative
in 2004.  

  We have classified
certain unbilled accounts receivable balances as noncurrent because we do not
expect to receive payment within one year from the balance sheet date. At
September 30, 2006, this balance improved to $2.2 million compared to $22.9
million at September 30, 2005.  

  Cash flows used in
investing activities in 2006 included $9.8 million in capital expenditures,
partially offset by proceeds of $8.0 million from the investment real estate
sale. We also invested $8.9 million of our excess cash in short-term
investments in 2006. In 2005, investing activities included $8.3 million in
capital expenditures, partially offset by the liquidation of $6.2 million in
short-term investments. Investing activities in 2004 included a $13.6 million
cash receipt from the sale of a life insurance policy, $6.9 million in capital
expenditures, $7.1 million used for acquisitions and the net purchase of
short-term investments of $3.2 million.  

  Financing
activities in 2006 included the repayment of short term borrowings of $16.4
million and scheduled payments on long-term borrowings of $6.1 million, in
addition to the payment of a dividend to shareholders of $4.8 million (18 cents
per share). Financing activities in 2005 included scheduled debt payments of
$6.1 million, dividends paid to shareholders of $4.8 million and net borrowings
of $0.7 million on a short-term basis. In 2004 we obtained a $9.0 million
mortgage on our facility in the U.K. and  

27     

used the proceeds
to repay short-term borrowings in the U.K. 
We also borrowed $25 million on a short-term basis in the U.S. and New
Zealand that year to fund working capital requirements. Other financing
activities in 2004 included scheduled debt payments of $1.9 million and the
payment of $4.3 million in dividends to shareholders.  

  Accumulated other comprehensive income increased by
$6.7 million in 2006 because of foreign currency translation adjustments of
$4.3 million and a decrease in the minimum liability for our pension plan of
$2.4 million. This increases the positive balance in accumulated other
comprehensive to $8.4 million income as of September 30, 2006 compared to $1.7
million at September 30, 2005.  

  The pension plan under-funded balance improved from
the September 30, 2005 balance of $41.1 million to $32.2 million at September
30, 2006. Of this improvement, $7.4 million was the result of our decision to
discontinue accrual of benefits under the defined benefit pension plan that
provides benefits to certain U.S. based employees, effective January 1, 2007.
We will replace this benefit with a company match of employee s contributions
up to 3% of their qualified pay under our existing defined contribution 401(k) plan.
Over the long-term, the cost of this defined contribution is expected to be
equivalent to or slightly lower than the cost of the defined benefit pension
plan; however, we expect this change will result in a more consistent and
predictable retirement cost in the future. The remainder of the improvement in
the funding position can be attributed to a return on plan assets for the year
that was higher than our assumed rate of return.  

  The net deferred tax asset was $26.4 million at
September 30, 2006 compared to $28.1 million at September 30, 2005. Of these
amounts, $4.7 million and $6.0 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005,
respectively, resulted from the tax effect of recording an additional minimum
pension liability. We expect to generate sufficient taxable income in the
future such that the net deferred tax asset will be realized.  

  Our financial
condition remains strong with working capital of $277.5 million and a current
ratio of 2.7 at September 30, 2006. We expect that cash on hand and our ability
to access the debt markets will be adequate to meet our working capital
requirements for the foreseeable future. In addition to the short-term
borrowing arrangements we have in the U.K. and New Zealand , we have a committed five year credit
facility from a group of financial institutions in the U.S., aggregating $150
million.  As of September 30, 2006, $19.9
million of this capacity was used, leaving an additional $130.1 million
available.  Our total debt to capital
ratio at September 30, 2006 was less than 15%. In addition, our cash and
short-term investments totaled $51.3 million at September 30, 2006 which was
nearly the level of our total short and long-term borrowings of $54.2 million. 

  The following is a schedule of our contractual obligations outstanding
as of September 30, 2006:  

Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments      Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We continually evaluate our estimates and judgments, the most critical of which are those related to revenue recognition, income taxes, valuation of goodwill and pension costs. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be  
   28     

reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known.    Besides the estimates identified above that are considered critical, we make many other accounting estimates in preparing our financial statements and related disclosures. All estimates, whether or not deemed critical, affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, as well as disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and judgments are also based on historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known, even for estimates and judgments that are not deemed critical.    This discussion of critical accounting policies, estimates and judgments should be read in conjunction with other disclosures included in this discussion, and the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements related to estimates, contingencies and new accounting standards. Significant accounting policies are identified in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We have discussed each of the  critical  accounting policies and the related estimates with the audit committee of the Board of Directors.     Revenue Recognition   

  Most of our business is derived from long-term development, production
and system integration contracts which we account for consistent with the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants  (AICPA) audit and
accounting guide,  Audits of Federal Government Contractors ,
and the AICPA s Statement of Position No. 81-1,  Accounting
for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts .
We consider the nature of these contracts, and the types of products and
services provided, when we determine the proper accounting for a particular
contract. Generally, we record revenue for long-term fixed price contracts on a
percentage of completion basis using the cost-to-cost method to measure
progress toward completion. Most of our long-term fixed-price contracts require
us to deliver minimal quantities over a long period of time or to perform a
substantial level of development effort in relation to the total value of the
contract. Under the cost-to-cost method of accounting, we recognize revenue based
on a ratio of the costs incurred to the estimated total costs at completion.
Amounts representing contract change orders, claims or other items are included
in the contract value only when they can be reliably estimated and realization
is considered probable. Provisions are made on a current basis to fully
recognize any anticipated losses on contracts.  

  We record sales under cost-reimbursement-type contracts as we incur the
costs. Incentives or penalties and awards applicable to performance on contracts
are considered in estimating sales and profits, and are recorded when there is
sufficient information to assess anticipated contract performance. Incentive
provisions that increase or decrease earnings based solely on a single
significant event are not recognized until the event occurs. We have accounting
policies in place to address these and other complex issues in accounting for
long-term contracts.  

   Sales of products are recorded when a firm sales agreement is in place,
delivery has occurred and collectibility of the fixed or determinable sales
price is reasonably assured. Sales of services are recorded when performed in
accordance with contracts or service agreements.   Sales and profits on contracts that
specify multiple deliverables are allocated to separate units of accounting
when there is objective evidence that each accounting unit has value to the
customer on a stand-alone basis.  

   Income Taxes     Significant judgment is required in determining our income tax provisions and in evaluating our tax return positions. We establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are likely to be challenged and that we may not prevail. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit.    Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements and are referred to as timing differences. In addition, some expenses are not deductible on our tax return and are 
referred to as permanent differences. Timing differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax  
   29     

deduction or credit in future years for which we have already recorded the benefit in our income statement. We establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent deductions we have taken on our tax return but have not yet recognized as expense in  our financial statements. We have not recognized any United States tax expense on undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries since we intend to reinvest the earnings outside the United States for the foreseeable future. These undistributed earnings totaled approximately $37.3 million at September 30, 2006.    Valuation of Goodwill   

  We evaluate our
recorded goodwill balances for potential impairment annually by comparing the
fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value, including recorded
goodwill. We have not yet had a case where the carrying value exceeded the fair
value; however, if it did, impairment would be measured by comparing the
derived fair value of goodwill to its carrying value, and any impairment
determined would be recorded in the current period. To date there has been no
impairment of our recorded goodwill. Goodwill balances by reporting unit are as
follows:  

Determining the
fair value of a reporting unit for purposes of the goodwill impairment test is
judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and
assumptions. These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on
whether or not an impairment charge is recognized and also the magnitude of any
such charge. We currently perform internal valuation analysis and consider
other market information that is publicly available. Estimates of fair value
are primarily determined using discounted cash flows and comparisons with
recent transactions. These approaches use significant estimates and assumptions
including projected future cash flows, discount rate reflecting the inherent
risk in future cash flows, perpetual growth rate and determination of
appropriate market comparables . 

  For fiscal 2006, the discounted cash flows for each reporting unit were
based on discrete three-year financial forecasts developed by management for
planning purposes. Cash flows beyond the three-year discrete forecasts were
estimated based on projected growth rates and financial ratios, influenced by
an analysis of historical ratios, and by calculating a terminal value at the
end of ten years. The compound annual growth rates for sales ranged from 4.0%
to 8.0% and for operating profit margins ranged from 6.5% to 8.0% for the
reporting units, beyond the discrete forecast period. The future cash flows
were discounted to present value using a discount rate of 9%. We did not
recognize any goodwill impairment as a result of performing this annual test. A
variance in the discount rate, the estimated sales growth rate or the operating
profit margin could have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of
the reporting unit and consequently the amount of identified goodwill
impairment. For example, a 3% decrease in the assumed operating profit margin
in either the defense systems and products or the transportation systems
reporting units would have resulted in an indication of impairment that would
have led us to further quantify the possible impairment and potentially record
a charge to write-down these assets.  

   Pension Costs     The measurement of our pension obligations and costs is dependent on a variety of assumptions used by our actuaries. These assumptions include estimates of the present value of projected future pension payments to plan participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. These assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions.  
   30     

The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors:                          Discount rates                         Inflation                         Salary growth                         Expected return on plan assets                         Retirement rates                         Mortality rates   We base the discount rate assumption on investment yields available at year-end on high quality corporate long-term bonds. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long-term actual experience in relation to the inflation assumption. The expected return on plan assets reflects asset allocations, our historical experience, our investment strategy and the views of investment managers and large pension sponsors. Retirement and mortality rates are based primarily on actual plan experience. The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods, and therefore, 
generally affect our recognized expense in such future periods.    Changes in the above assumptions can affect our financial statements, although the relatively small size of our defined benefit pension plans in relation to the size of the Company limit the impact any individual assumption changes can have. For example, a 50 basis point change in the assumed rate of return on assets would have changed the pension expense recorded in 2006 by about $600 thousand, before applicable income taxes.  
   31     

Item 7a.           QUANTITATIVE AND
QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK   

    Interest
Rate Risk    

  We invest in money
market instruments and short-term marketable debt and equity securities that
are tied to floating interest rates being offered at the time the investment is
made. We maintain short-term borrowing arrangements in the U.S., U.K., New
Zealand, which are also tied to floating interest rates (LIBOR and the U.S.
prime rate and the U.K. and New Zealand base rates). We also have senior
unsecured notes payable to insurance companies that are due in annual
installments. These notes have fixed coupon interest rates. See Note 5 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.  

  Interest income
earned on our short-term investments is affected by changes in the general
level of U.S. and U.K. interest rates. These income streams are generally not
hedged.  Interest expense incurred under
the short-term borrowing arrangements is affected by changes in the general
level of interest rates in the U.S., U.K., and New Zealand. The expense related
to these cost streams is usually not hedged since it is either revolving,
payable within three months and/or immediately callable by the lender at any
time. Interest expense incurred under the long-term notes payable is not
affected by changes in any interest rate because it is fixed.  However, we have in the past, and may in the
future, use an interest rate swap to essentially convert this fixed rate into a
floating rate for some or all of the long-term debt outstanding.  The purpose of a swap would be to tie the
interest expense risk related to these borrowings to the interest income risk
on our short-term investments, thereby mitigating our net interest rate risk.
We believe that we are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk at this
point in time.  There was no interest
rate swap outstanding at September 30, 2006.  

    Foreign
Currency Exchange Risk    

  In the ordinary
course of business, we enter into firm sale and purchase commitments
denominated in many foreign currencies. 
We have a policy to hedge those commitments greater than $20,000 by
using foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts that are
denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary
responsible for the commitment, typically the British pound, Canadian dollar,
Euro, New Zealand dollar and Australian dollar. 
These contracts are designed to be effective hedges regardless of the
direction or magnitude of any foreign currency exchange rate change, because
they result in an equal and opposite income or cost stream that offsets the
change in the value of the underlying commitment.  See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for more information on our foreign currency translation and
transaction accounting policies.  We also
use balance sheet hedges to mitigate foreign exchange risk.  This strategy involves incurring British
pound denominated debt (See Interest Rate Risk above) and having the option of
paying off the debt using U.S. dollar or British pound funds. We do not believe
that we are significantly exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk at
this point in time.  

  Investments in our
foreign subsidiaries in the U.K., Australia, New Zealand, and Canada are not
hedged because we consider them to be invested indefinitely.  In addition, we generally have control over
the timing and amount of earnings repatriation and expect to use this control
to mitigate foreign currency exchange risk.  

32     

Item 8.                 FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA .  

  CUBIC CORPORATION  

  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  

See accompanying notes.  

33     

See accompanying
notes.  

34     

CUBIC CORPORATION  

  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS
OF INCOME  

See
accompanying notes.  

35     

CUBIC
CORPORATION  

  CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY  

See accompanying notes.  

36     

CUBIC CORPORATION  

  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS
OF CASH FLOWS  

See accompanying notes.  

37  

CUBIC CORPORATION  

  NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

  September 30, 2006  

  NOTE 1 SUMMARY OF
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

   Organization and
Nature of the Business:   
Cubic Corporation ( Cubic  or  the Company ) designs, develops and
manufactures products which are mainly electronic in nature, provides
government services and services related to products previously produced by
Cubic and others. The Company s principal lines of business are defense
electronics and transportation fare collection systems. Principal customers for
defense products and services are the United States and foreign governments.
Transportation fare collection systems are sold primarily to large local
government agencies in the United States and worldwide. 

   Principles of
Consolidation:    The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Cubic Corporation,
its majority-owned subsidiaries and a 50% owned joint venture of which the
Company is the primary beneficiary. All significant intercompany balances and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The consolidation of
foreign subsidiaries requires translation of their assets and liabilities into
U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates. Statements of income and cash flows
are translated at the average exchange rates for each year. 

   Cash Equivalents:    The Company considers highly liquid
investments with maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash
equivalents. 

   Concentration of
Credit Risk:    The
Company has established guidelines pursuant to which its cash and cash
equivalents are diversified among various money market instruments and
investment funds. These guidelines emphasize the preservation of capital by
requiring minimum credit ratings assigned by established credit organizations.  Diversification is achieved by specifying
maximum investments in each instrument type and issuer. The majority of these
investments are not on deposit in federally insured accounts. 

   Fair Value of Financial Instruments:     Financial instruments, including
cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued
liabilities, are carried at cost, which management believes approximates the
fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments.  The fair value of long-term debt is based
upon quoted market prices for the same or similar debt instruments and
approximates the carrying value of the debt. 
Receivables consist primarily of amounts due from U.S. and foreign
governments for defense products and local government agencies for
transportation systems.  Due to the
nature of its customers, the Company generally does not require
collateral.  The Company has limited
exposure to credit risk as the Company has historically collected substantially
all of its receivables from government agencies.  The Company generally requires no allowance
for doubtful accounts for these customers unless specific contractual
circumstances warrant it.  

   Short-term investments:    Short-term investments include highly liquid, investment grade,
institutional money market debt and preferred stock instruments and are
stated at fair market value. The net excess of fair market value over cost is
included in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets. 

   Inventories:    Inventories are stated at the lower of cost
or market. Cost is determined using primarily the first-in, first-out (FIFO)
method, which approximates current replacement cost. Work in process is stated
at the actual production and engineering costs incurred to date, including
applicable overhead, and is reduced by charging any amounts in excess of
estimated realizable value to cost of sales. Although costs incurred for
certain government contracts include general and administrative costs as
allowed by government cost accounting standards, the amounts remaining in
inventory at September 30, 2006 and 2005 were immaterial. 

38     

Property, Plant
and Equipment:   
Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost. Depreciation is
provided in amounts sufficient to amortize the cost of the depreciable assets
over their estimated useful lives. Generally, straight-line methods are used
for real property over estimated useful lives ranging from 15 to 39 years or
the term of the underlying lease for leasehold improvements.  Accelerated methods (declining balance and sum-of-the-years-digits)
are used for machinery and equipment over estimated useful lives ranging from
five to seven years.  Provisions for
depreciation of plant and equipment and amortization of leasehold improvements
amounted to $7,648,000, $8,096,000, and $6,979,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. 

   Goodwill:    Goodwill is evaluated for potential
impairment annually by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its
carrying value, including recorded goodwill. If the carrying value exceeds the
fair value, impairment is measured by comparing the derived fair value of
goodwill to its carrying value, and any impairment determined would be recorded
in the current period. To date there has been no impairment of the Company s
recorded goodwill.  The changes in the
carrying amount of goodwill for the two years ended September 30, 2006 are as
follows: 

Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets:    The
carrying values of long-lived assets other than goodwill are generally
evaluated for impairment only if events or changes in facts and circumstances
indicate that carrying values may not be recoverable. Any impairment determined
would be recorded in the current period and would be measured by comparing the
fair value of the related asset to its carrying value. Fair value is generally
determined by identifying estimated undiscounted cash flows to be generated by
those assets.  No impairments have been
recorded for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004. 

   Deferred
Compensation:    Deferred
compensation includes amounts due under an arrangement under which certain
members of management may elect to defer receiving payment for a portion of
their compensation until periods after their respective retirements.  Interest on such accrued compensation accrues
at market rates, 5.1% at September 30, 2006, until such time as it is paid in
full. 

39     

Comprehensive
Income:    Comprehensive
income and its components are presented in the statement of changes in
shareholders  equity.  Accumulated
comprehensive income (loss) consisted of the following: 

The minimum
pension liability is shown net of tax benefits of $4,650,000 and $5,961,000 at
September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 
Deferred income taxes are not recognized for translation-related
temporary differences of foreign subsidiaries whose undistributed earnings are
considered to be permanently invested. 
The net unrealized gain from cash flow hedges is shown net of tax
liabilities of $0 and $4,000 in 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

   Gain on Sale of
Assets:    During the
first quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company sold real estate that had been
held for investment purposes for approximately $8 million, resulting in a gain
before applicable income taxes of $7.2 million. 

   Revenue
Recognition:    Sales and
profits under the Company s long-term fixed-price contracts, which generally require
a significant amount of development effort in relation to total contract value,
are recognized using the cost-to-cost percentage of completion method of
accounting. Sales and profits are recorded based on the ratio of costs incurred
to estimated total costs at completion. In the early stages of contract
performance, profit is not recognized until progress is demonstrated or
contract milestones are reached. 

  Sales under
cost-reimbursement type contracts are recorded as costs are incurred.
Applicable estimated profits are included in earnings based on the ratio of
costs incurred to the estimated total costs at completion. Sales of products
are recorded when a firm sales agreement is in place, delivery has occurred and
collectibility of the fixed or determinable sales price is reasonably assured.
Sales of services are recorded when performed in accordance with contracts or
service agreements.  

  Amounts
representing contract change orders, claims or other items are included in the
contract value only when they can be reliably estimated and realization is
considered probable. Incentives or penalties and awards applicable to
performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profits, and
are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated
contract performance. Incentive provisions that increase or decrease earnings
based solely on a single significant event are not recognized until the event
occurs.  

  Sales and profits
on contracts that specify multiple deliverables are allocated to separate units
of accounting when there is objective evidence that each accounting unit has
value to the customer on a stand-alone basis.  

  Provisions are
made on a current basis to fully recognize any anticipated losses on
contracts.  Cash received prior to
revenue recognition is classified as customer advances on the balance sheet.  

40     

Income taxes  :  The provision for income taxes includes federal, state, local, and foreign taxes.  Tax credits, primarily for research and development and export programs are recognized as a reduction of the provision for income taxes in the year in which they are available for tax purposes.  Deferred income taxes are provided on temporary differences between assets and liabilities for financial reporting and tax purposes as measured by enacted tax rates expected to apply when the temporary differences are settled or realized.  Valuation allowances are established for deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent deductions that have been taken on tax returns but have not yet been recognized as expense in th
e financial statements. The Company has not recognized any United States tax expense on undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries since it intends to reinvest the earnings outside the United States for the foreseeable future. Such undistributed earnings totaled approximately $37.3 million at September 30, 2006. 

   Earnings Per Share:    Per share amounts are based upon the weighted
average number of shares of common stock outstanding. 

   Derivative Financial Instruments   :   The Company s use of derivative
financial instruments is limited to foreign exchange forward and option
contracts used to hedge significant contract sales and purchase commitments
that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the
subsidiary responsible for the commitment and to hedge net advances to foreign
subsidiaries.  The purpose of the Company s
foreign currency hedging activities is to fix the dollar value of specific
commitments and payments to foreign vendors, and the value of foreign currency
denominated receipts from customers. At September 30, 2006, the Company had
foreign exchange contracts with a notional value of $100.5 million outstanding.  

  The Company
accounts for derivatives pursuant to SFAS 133,  Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , as amended. This
standard requires that all derivative instruments be recognized in the
financial statements and measured at fair value regardless of the purpose or
intent for holding them. The classification of gains and losses resulting from
changes in the fair values of derivatives is dependent on the intended use of
the derivative and its resulting designation. The change in fair value of the ineffective
portion of a hedge, and changes in fair values of derivatives that are not
considered highly effective hedges are immediately recognized in earnings. If
the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, the changes in the
estimated fair value of the derivative and the underlying hedged item are
recognized in earnings. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge,
the effective portions of changes in the fair value of the derivative are
recorded in other comprehensive income and are subsequently recognized in
earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. Ineffectiveness between the
change in fair value of the derivatives and the change in fair value of hedged
items was immaterial for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004.  

   Accounting
Standards   :   On
July 13, 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Interpretation
No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes  (FIN 48), which is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 31, 2006. The purpose of FIN 48 is to clarify and set forth consistent
rules for accounting for uncertain tax positions in accordance with FAS 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes . The
cumulative effect of applying the provisions of this interpretation are
required to be reported separately as an adjustment to the opening balance of
retained earnings in the year of adoption. Management is in the process of
reviewing and evaluating FIN 48, and therefore the ultimate impact of its adoption
is not yet known. 

41     

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board published FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 158 (SFAS 158),    Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans,    to require an employer to fully
recognize the obligations associated with single-employer defined benefit
pension, retiree healthcare, and other postretirement plans in their financial
statements. The new standard is effective for fiscal years ending after December
15, 2006. Previous standards required an employer to disclose the complete
funded status of its plan only in the notes to the financial statements.
Moreover, because those standards allowed an employer to delay recognition of
certain changes in plan assets and obligations that affected the costs of
providing benefits, employers reported an asset or liability that almost always
differed from the plan s funded status. Under SFAS 158, a defined benefit
postretirement plan sponsor that is a public or private company or a
nongovernmental not-for-profit organization must (a) recognize in its statement
of financial position an asset for a plan s overfunded status or a liability
for the plan s underfunded status, (b) measure the plan s assets and its
obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the employer s
fiscal year (with limited exceptions), and (c) recognize, as a component of
other comprehensive income, the changes in the funded status of the plan that
arise during the year but are not recognized as components of net periodic
benefit cost pursuant to SFAS 87,    Employers  Accounting for Pensions,    or
SFAS 106,    Employers 
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions.    SFAS
158 also requires an employer to disclose in the notes to financial statements
additional information on how delayed recognition of certain changes in the
funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan affects net periodic
benefit cost for the next fiscal year. 
We are in the process of reviewing and evaluating SFAS 158, and
therefore the ultimate impact of its adoption in not yet known.  

  In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting
Changes and Error Corrections  (SFAS 154). This Statement replaces APB Opinion
No. 20,  Accounting Changes,  and SFAS 3,  Reporting Accounting Changes in
Interim Financial Statements.  SFAS 154 sets forth new guidelines on accounting
for voluntary changes in accounting principle and requires certain disclosures.
It also applies to the unusual situation in which an accounting pronouncement
is issued but does not include specific transition guidelines. This Statement
requires such accounting principle changes to be applied retrospectively to all
prior periods presented and an adjustment to the balance of assets or liabilities
affected along with an offsetting adjustment to retained earnings for the
cumulative effect on periods prior to those presented. This Statement carries
forward without change the guidance in APB Opinion No. 20 for reporting the
correction of an error and a change in accounting estimate. SFAS 154 will be
effective for the Company beginning with fiscal year 2007.  

   Use of Estimates:    The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported
in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Significant estimates
include the estimated total costs at completion of the Company s long-term
contracts, estimated discounted cash flows of reporting units used for goodwill
impairment testing, and the estimated rates of return and discount rates
related to the Company s defined benefit pension plans. Actual results could
differ from those estimates. 

   Risks and
Uncertainties:    The
Company is subject to the normal risks and uncertainties of performing large,
multiyear, often fixed-price contracts. In addition, the Company is subject to
audit of incurred costs related to many of its U.S. Government contracts. These
audits could produce different results than the Company has estimated; however,
the Company s experience has been that its costs are acceptable to the
government. 

   Reclassifications:    Deferred tax assets amounting to
approximately $6.0 million as of September 30, 2005 were reclassified from
current to noncurrent assets to conform to the current year classification. 

42     

NOTE
2 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES  

  The
Company is party to a 50/50 joint venture arrangement with the U.S. subsidiary
of Rafael Armament Development Authority Ltd. (Rafael), an Israeli company, to
manufacture certain of their products for sale to the U.S. and Israeli defense
forces. The agreement requires the Company to invest up to $15 million in the
joint venture over the first three years of operation, which commenced in 2005,
while Rafael will provide certain of its intellectual property to the joint
venture in a royalty-free arrangement. As of September 30, 2006 the Company had
invested $4 million in the joint venture. In 2006 the agreement was amended to
allow the joint venture to borrow up to $1 million each from Rafael and Cubic.
As of September 30, 2006 outstanding borrowings under this arrangement amounted
to $800 thousand from each party. In 2006, the joint venture was awarded its
first contract and generated sales of approximately $1.0 million. It incurred
operating losses of $2.0 million and $1.3 million in 2006 and 2005,
respectively.  

  Under the provisions of FIN 46   Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities,   the Company consolidates the above
joint venture, as it is the primary beneficiary of the joint venture
arrangement. Minority interest in the net loss from this business is reflected
in the consolidated income statements and minority interest in the net assets
of the joint venture is included in the consolidated balance sheets.  

  The Company owns
37.5% of the common stock of Transaction Systems Limited (TranSys), an
unconsolidated joint venture company in the United Kingdom. This joint venture
company was formed to bid on a contract called  PRESTIGE  (Procurement of
Revenue Services, Ticketing, Information, Gates and Electronics), the purpose
of which is to outsource most of the functions of the Transport for London
(TfL) fare collection system for a period of seventeen years. In August 1998,
TranSys was awarded the contract and began operations. Cubic and the other
parties to the joint venture participate in the PRESTIGE contract solely
through subcontracts from TranSys. All of the work to be performed by TranSys
is subcontracted to the joint venture partners and the joint venture provides
for the pass-through of virtually all revenues from TfL to the joint venture
partners. As a result, TranSys has operated on a break-even basis and is
expected to continue to do so. If TranSys were to eventually generate a net
income or loss, the joint venture partners would share in this income or loss
in accordance with their percentage ownership in the joint venture. The Company s
investment in the joint venture is immaterial.  

  TfL
elected to finance the project through private financing rather than incurring
public debt. Financing for the project was provided by a syndicate of banks
which participated in creating the project s financial structure. During the
first four years of the project, through August 2002, the banks provided
financing to TranSys totaling 200 million British Pounds (approximately $374
million). Debt servicing began in 2003 and will continue until the debt is
fully paid in 2013. This debt is guaranteed by TfL and is nonrecourse to the
joint venture partners.  

  The
Company has also provided certain performance guarantees to various parties
related to the PRESTIGE contract and the TranSys joint venture, including TfL,
the banks and the joint venture partners. The joint venture partners have also
provided similar performance guarantees to the same parties and to Cubic.  

43     

Summarized
unaudited financial information for this unconsolidated joint venture is as
follows:  

NOTE 3 ACCOUNTS
RECEIVABLE  

  The components of
accounts receivable under long-term contracts are as follows:  

A portion of
recoverable costs and accrued profits on progress completed is billable under
progress payment provisions of the related contracts. The remainder of these
amounts is billable upon delivery of  

44     

products or furnishing of
services, with an immaterial amount subject to retainage provisions of the
contracts.  It is anticipated that
substantially all of the unbilled portion of receivables identified as current
assets will be billed and collected under progress billing provisions of the
contracts or upon completion of performance tests and/or acceptance by the
customers during fiscal 2007.  

  NOTE
4 INVENTORIES  

  Inventories
are classified as follows:  

At
September 30, 2006 and 2005, work in process and inventoried costs under
long-term contracts included approximately $7.7 million and $5.8 million,
respectively, in costs incurred outside the scope of work on several contracts
in the defense segment. Management believes it is probable these costs, plus a
profit margin, will be recovered under contract change orders within the next
year.  

45     

NOTE
5 FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS  

  Long-term debt
consists of the following:  

The terms of the
notes payable and other financial instruments include provisions that require
and/or limit, among other financial ratios and measurements, the permitted
levels of working capital, debt and tangible net worth and coverage of fixed
charges. The Company has also provided certain performance guarantees to
various parties related to the PRESTIGE contract and the TranSys joint venture.
As consideration for the performance guarantee, the Company has agreed to
certain financial covenants including limits on working capital, debt, tangible
net worth and cash flow coverage. At September 30, 2006, the most restrictive
covenant under these agreements leaves consolidated retained earnings of $124.0
million available for the payment of dividends to shareholders, purchases of
the Company s common stock and other charges to shareholders  equity. To date,
there have been no covenant violations and the Company believes it will be able
to meet the covenant financial performance obligations described above.  

  The Company
maintains a short-term borrowing arrangement totaling 10 million British pounds
(equivalent to approximately $18.7 million) with a U.K. financial institution
to help meet the short-term working capital requirements of its subsidiary,
Cubic Transportation Systems Ltd. Any outstanding balances are guaranteed by
Cubic Corporation, are repayable on demand, and bear interest at the bank s
base rate, as defined, plus one percent. At September 30, 2006, no amounts were
outstanding under this borrowing arrangement.  

  The Company
maintains a short-term borrowing arrangement in New Zealand totaling $2 million
New Zealand dollars (equivalent to approximately $1.3 million) to help meet the
short-term working capital requirements of its subsidiary in that country.  At September 30, 2006, no amounts were
outstanding under this borrowing arrangement.  

46     

The Company has a $150 million revolving line of credit arrangement with
a group of U.S. banks which expires in March 2010. As of September 30, 2006 the
Company had $10 million of short-term debt outstanding under this line of
credit at an interest rate of 6.2% and $9.9 million in letters of credit.  

  Maturities of
long-term debt for each of the five years in the period ending September 30,
2011, are as follows: 2007   $6.0 million; 
2008   $6.0 million; 2009   $6.0 million; 2010   $4.6 million; 2011  
$4.6 million.  

  Interest paid
amounted to $4.7 million, $5.5 million, and $4.6 million in 2006, 2005, and
2004, respectively.  

  As of September
30, 2006 the Company had letters of credit and bank guarantees outstanding
totaling $67.5 million, which guarantee either the Company s performance or
customer advances under certain contracts. In addition, the Company had
financial letters of credit outstanding totaling $6.2 million as of September
30, 2006, which primarily guarantee the Company s payment of certain
self-insured liabilities. The Company has never had a drawing on a letter of
credit instrument, nor are any anticipated; therefore, the fair value of these
instruments is estimated to be zero.  

  The Company s
self-insurance arrangements are limited to certain workers  compensation plans,
automobile liability, and product liability claims primarily related to a
business the Company sold in 1993. Under these arrangements, the Company
self-insures only up to the amount of a specified deductible for each
claim.  Self-insurance liabilities
included in other current liabilities on the balance sheet amounted to $3.0
million and $3.1 million as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

  NOTE 6 COMMITMENTS  

  The Company leases
certain office, manufacturing and warehouse space, and miscellaneous computer
and other office equipment under noncancelable operating leases expiring in
various years through 2015.  These
leases, some of which may be renewed for periods up to 10 years, generally
require the lessee to pay all maintenance, insurance and property taxes.
Several leases are subject to periodic adjustment based on price indices or
cost increases. Rental expense, net of sublease income, for all operating
leases amounted to $6.9 million, $6.8 million, and $5.4 million in 2006, 2005,
and 2004, respectively.  

  Future
minimum payments, net of minimum sublease income, under noncancelable operating
leases with initial terms of one year or more consist of the following at
September 30, 2006 (in thousands):  

47     

NOTE 7 INCOME
TAXES  

  Significant
components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:  

48     

Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial
reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and are measured using the
enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are
expected to reverse. Significant components of the Company s deferred tax
assets and liabilities are as follows:  

49  

The reconciliation
of income tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory tax rate to income tax
expense is as follows:  

The Company is subject to ongoing audits from various taxing authorities
in the jurisdictions in which it does business. 
As of September 30, 2006, the Company s open tax years in significant
jurisdictions include 2004-2006 in both the U.S. and the U.K. The Company
believes it has adequately provided for uncertain tax issues not yet resolved
with federal, state and foreign tax authorities. Although not probable, the
most adverse resolution of these issues could result in additional charges to
earnings in future periods. Based upon a consideration of all relevant facts
and circumstances, the company does not believe the ultimate resolution of
uncertain tax issues for all open tax periods will have a materially adverse
effect upon its results of operations or financial condition. As of September
30, 2006 and 2005 the Company had income tax reserves of $5.6 million and $8.8
million, respectively, included in Income Taxes Payable.  

  As indicated in the table above, in 2006 and 2005 the Company was able
to reverse $1.1 and $2.8 million, respectively, of tax reserves established in
previous years due to the resolution of uncertain tax issues.  

  The Company made income tax
payments, net of refunds, totaling $11.6 million, $6.9 million, and $18.7
million in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.  

  Income before
income taxes includes the following components:  

50     

In December 2004, Financial Accounting Standards Board Position
109-2 was issued and established standards for how an issuer accounts for a
special one-time dividends received deduction on the repatriation of certain
foreign earnings to a U.S. taxpayer pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act
of 2004 (the Act). The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) staff
believes that the lack of clarification of certain provisions within the Act
and the timing of the enactment necessitated a practical exception to the
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes  (SFAS 109),
requirement to reflect in the period of enactment the effect of a new tax law.
Accordingly, an enterprise was allowed time beyond the financial reporting
period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Act on its plan for
reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying
SFAS 109. During the third fiscal quarter of 2006 management determined
that the Company had sufficient information to make an informed decision on the
impact of the Act on its repatriation plans and a provision of $1.5 million was
recorded at that time. In the fourth quarter, an extraordinary dividend, as
defined by the Act, was paid by the Company s U.K. subsidiary amounting to
$48.3 million.  

  In light of this extraordinary
dividend and changing market conditions, management reevaluated the Company s
capital requirements in Europe to determine what portion of its investment can
be considered indefinitely reinvested. Management s analysis determined that
the level of investment the Company currently has in Europe will be required
for the foreseeable future and is considered indefinitely reinvested;
therefore, no additional provision for taxes due upon repatriation has been
provided. However, the Company currently has no firm plans to invest further
capital in Europe, so management has concluded that a provision for U.S. taxes
on any future earnings in Europe will me made until such time as the Company s
plans for investment in Europe become solidified.  

  Undistributed
earnings of all the Company s foreign subsidiaries amounted to approximately
$37.3 million at September 30, 2006. Those earnings are considered to be
indefinitely reinvested, and accordingly, no provision for U.S. federal and
state income taxes has been provided thereon. Upon distribution of those
earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, the Company would be subject to
both U.S. income taxes and withholding taxes payable to the foreign countries,
but would also be able to offset unrecognized foreign tax credit carryforwards.
Determination of the total amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax
liability is not practicable because of the complexities associated with its
hypothetical calculation; however, the Company does not believe the amount would
be material.  

51     

NOTE
8 PENSION, PROFIT SHARING AND OTHER RETIREMENT PLANS  

  The Company has
profit sharing and other defined contribution retirement plans that provide
benefits for most employees in the U.S. An employee is eligible to participate
in these plans after six months to one year of service, and may make additional
contributions to the plans from their date of hire. These plans provide for
full vesting of benefits over five years. A substantial portion of Company
contributions to these plans is discretionary with the Board of Directors.
Company contributions to the plans aggregated $11.6 million, $11.5 million and
$9.9 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

  Approximately
one-half of the Company s nonunion employees in the U.S. are covered by a
noncontributory defined benefit pension plan. The Company and its Board of
Directors have approved an amendment to freeze plan benefits ( curtailment ).
The effect of the curtailment is that no new benefits will be accrued after
December 31, 2006. The financial impact of this curtailment is reflected in the
following disclosures. Approximately one-half of the Company s European
employees are covered by a contributory defined benefit pension plan. The
Company s funding policy provides that contributions will be at least equal to
the minimum amounts mandated by statutory requirements. The following table
sets forth changes in the benefit obligation and plan assets for these defined
benefit plans and the net amount recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets:  

52     

53     

Additional
information   

   Assumptions:   

The Company s
pension plans weighted average asset allocations by asset category as of
September 30 were as follows:  

The Company has the
responsibility to formulate the investment policies and strategies for the
plans  assets. The overall policies and strategies include: maintain the
highest possible return commensurate with the level of assumed risk, preserve
the benefit security for the plans  participants, and minimize the necessity of
Company contributions by maintaining a ratio of plan assets to liabilities in
excess of 1.0.  

  The Company does not involve itself with the day-to-day operations and
selection process of individual securities and investments, and, accordingly,
has retained the professional services of investment management organizations
to fulfill those tasks. The investment management organizations have investment
discretion over the assets placed under their management. The Company provides
each investment manager with specific investment guidelines relevant to its
asset class. The table below presents the ranges for each major category of the
plans  assets at September 30, 2006:  

Asset Category 

Allocation 
  Range   

Equity
  securities  

50% to 85%  

Debt securities  

10% to 60%  

Other, primarily cash
  and cash equivalents  

0% to 15%  

The pension plans
held no positions in Cubic Corporation common stock as of September 30, 2006
and 2005.  

  The Company
expects to contribute a minimum of $6.3 million to its pension plans in 2007.  

54     

Estimated
future benefit payments   

  The following
pension benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as
appropriate, are expected to be paid:  

NOTE 9 LEGAL
MATTERS  

  In 1991, the government of
Iran commenced an arbitration proceeding against the Company seeking $12.9
million for reimbursement of payments made for equipment that was to comprise
an Air Combat Maneuvering Range pursuant to a sales contract and an
installation contract executed in 1977, and an additional $15 million for
unspecified damages. The Company contested the action and brought a counterclaim
for compensatory damages of $10.4 million. 
In May 1997, the arbitral tribunal awarded the government of Iran $2.8
million, plus simple interest at the rate of 12% per annum from September 21,
1991 through May 5, 1997. In December 1998, the United States District Court
granted a motion by the government of Iran confirming the arbitral award but
denied Iran s request for additional interest and costs. Both parties have
appealed. In October 2004, the 9  th   Circuit Court of Appeals issued a decision in
the case of two interveners who are attempting to claim an attachment on the
amount that was awarded to Iran in the original arbitration. The Court denied
one of the intervener s liens but confirmed the second one s lien. Iran asked
the U.S. Supreme Court to review the 9  th   Circuit decision and to void the initial
judgment against it. In 2006, the Supreme Court returned the case to the 9  th   Circuit for reconsideration,
suggesting that the claimed lien cannot be enforced. The dispute between Iran
and Cubic is on hold in the 9  th   Circuit and the obligation upon Cubic to pay
is stayed. Under current United States law and policy, any payment to the
Revolutionary Government of Iran must first be licensed by the U.S. government.
The Company is unaware of the likelihood of the U.S. government granting such a
license. The Company is continuing to pursue its appeal in the 9  th   Circuit case against Iran, and
management believes that a license from the U.S. government would be required
in any case to make payment to or on behalf of Iran. However, in light of the 9  th   Circuit Court s decision in the
related intervener s case, in 2004 the Company established a reserve of $6
million for the estimated potential liability and will continue to accrue
interest on this amount until the ultimate outcome of the case is determined.  

  In January 2005, a bus fare collection system customer in North America
issued a  cure notice  to the Company, alleging that its performance was not in
accord with the contract. After unsuccessful negotiations with the customer, in
March 2005, the Company filed for a temporary restraining order requesting that
the customer be restrained from further interfering with the Company s
performance and from issuing a termination notice. The next business day, the customer
issued a letter terminating the contract for default. In April 2005, the
customer filed a claim for breach of contract, seeking damages for  all actual,
consequential and liquidated damages sustained  as well as attorney s fees. The
contract limits liability to the contract value of $8.2 million, but the
customer appears to be attempting to avoid that limitation. In May 2005, the
Company filed an answer and general denial and subsequently filed a verified
petition alleging breach of contract and other substantive claims, claiming the
amount owed under the contract of $4.2 million, plus interest and attorney s
fees. Management believes that both the customer s default notice and claim for
damages are unsupported and the Company is vigorously  

55     

defending against the allegations. Based on
the advice of counsel, management believes the Company had substantially
completed the contract prior to termination and that the remaining contract
value is due and that the Company will prevail at trial; therefore, no liability
has been recorded for the former customer s claim as of September 30, 2006.
However, due to the uncertainty of collecting the outstanding receivable
balance an allowance for doubtful accounts of $4.2 million was established and
all costs incurred in the performance of the contract and costs incurred
outside the scope of the contract were expensed in the year ended September 30,
2005.  

  In June 2005, a company
that Cubic had an alleged agreement with to potentially bid on a portion of
automated fare collection contracts filed a court claim for breach of contract,
fraud, negligent misrepresentation, theft of trade secrets, and other related
allegations. The claim seeks $15.0 million in compensatory damages, punitive
damages, disgorgement of profits and a permanent injunction. In accordance with
the underlying contract arbitration clause, in July 2005 the Company filed a
claim with the American Arbitration Association and requested the court case be
stayed or dismissed. The Court denied the Company s motion to transfer the case
to arbitration. The Company has appealed that decision to the California Court
of Appeals. Based on information currently available, management believes there
is no merit to the claim and that it will prevail in this matter. Therefore, no
liability has been recorded as of September 30, 2006.  

  From time-to-time, agencies of the U.S. and foreign governments may
investigate whether the Company s operations are being conducted in accordance
with applicable regulatory requirements. Such investigations, whether relating
to government contracts or conducted for other reasons, could result in
administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines or
penalties being imposed upon the Company, or could lead to suspension or debarment
from future government contracting. 
Government investigations often take years to complete and most result
in no adverse action against the Company.  

  The Company is not a party to any other material
pending proceedings and management considers all other matters to be ordinary
proceedings incidental to the business. Management believes the outcome of
these proceedings and the proceedings described above will not have a
materially adverse effect on the Company s financial position.  

  NOTE 10 BUSINESS SEGMENT
INFORMATION  

   Description of the types of products and
services from which each reportable segment derives its revenues:   

  The Company has two primary business segments:
transportation systems and defense. The transportation systems segment designs,
produces, installs and services electronic revenue collection systems for mass
transit projects, including railways and buses. The defense segment performs
work under U.S. and foreign government contracts relating to electronic defense
systems and equipment, computer simulation training, development of training
doctrine, and field operations and maintenance. Products include customized
range instrumentation and training systems, simulators, communications and
surveillance systems, avionics systems, power amplifiers and receivers.  

   Measurement of segment profit or loss and
segment assets:   

  The Company
evaluates performance and allocates resources based on total segment operating
profit or loss. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same
as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies.
Intersegment sales and transfers are immaterial.  

56     

Factors management used to identify the
Company s reportable segments:   

  The Company s reportable segments are business units
that offer different products and services. The reportable segments are each
managed separately because they develop and manufacture distinct products with
different customer bases.  

  Business
segment financial data is as follows:  

57     

(a) Sales are attributed to
countries or regions based on the location of customers.  

Defense segment sales
include $427.2 million, $426.9 million and $360.3 million in 2006, 2005, and
2004, respectively, of sales to U.S. Government agencies.  No other single customer accounts for 10% or
more of the Company s revenue.  

58     

NOTE 11 SUMMARY OF
QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)  

  The following is a summary of the quarterly results of operations for
the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005:  

59     

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  The Board of Directors and
Stockholders of Cubic Corporation  

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Cubic Corporation as of September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the
related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders  equity and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2006.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.  

  We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial
position of Cubic Corporation at September 30, 2006 and 2005, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended September 30, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles.  

  We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
effectiveness of Cubic Corporation s internal control over financial reporting
as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission and our report dated November 29, 2006 expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon.  

60     

Item 9.                 DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE   .  

  None.  

   Item 9a.           CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   .  

    Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
Procedures      The
Company s management conducted an evaluation, under the supervision and with
the participation of the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s
disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2006. Based on this
evaluation, the Company s management, including the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, concluded that the Company s disclosure
controls and procedures are effective in providing reasonable assurance that
information required to be disclosed in the reports the Company files and
submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported as and when required. 

  In designing and evaluating
the Company s disclosure controls and procedures, the Company s management
recognizes that any controls, no matter how well designed and operated, can
provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives.  

    Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting    

  Management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting for the Company. In order to evaluate the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management has conducted an assessment, including testing,
using the criteria in Internal Control   Integrated Framework, issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
Company s system of internal control over financial reporting is designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

  Based on its assessment,
management has concluded that the Company maintained effective internal control
over financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria in
Internal Control   Integrated Framework, issued by the COSO. Management s
assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, has been audited by Ernst  
Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their
report which follows.  

61  

REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  The Board of Directors and
Stockholders of Cubic Corporation  

  We have audited management s assessment, included in
the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting, that Cubic Corporation maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of September 30, 2006, based on criteria established in
Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Cubic Corporation s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on management s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  

  We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding
of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management s
assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.  

  A company s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.  

  Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.  

  In our opinion, management s assessment that Cubic
Corporation maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as
of September 30, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the
COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, Cubic Corporation maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
September 30, 2006, based on the COSO criteria.  

  We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated balance sheets of Cubic Corporation as of September 30, 2006 and
2005, and the related statements of income, shareholders  equity, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2006 of
Cubic Corporation and our report dated November 29, 2006 expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon.  

62     

Changes in Internal Controls Over Financial
Reporting      There
were no changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2006 that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company s internal
control over financial reporting. 

    PART III    

   Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT    .  

  Certain information regarding directors and
executive officers is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive
Proxy Statement, which will be filed no later than 30 days prior to the date of
the Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  

  The Company has adopted a code of ethics that
applies to its principle executive officer, principle financial officer, and
its principle accounting officer.  Such
code of ethics appears on our web site at:
http://www.cubic.com/corp1/invest/governance.html.  

   Item 11.  EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION    .  

  Information regarding executive compensation is
incorporated herein by reference from our definitive Proxy Statement, which
will be filed no later than 30 days prior to the date of the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders.  

   Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT    .  

  Information regarding security ownership of
certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated herein by reference
from our definitive Proxy Statement, which will be filed no later than 30 days
prior to the date of the Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  

   Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS
AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS    .  

  Information regarding certain relationships and
related transactions is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive
Proxy Statement, which will be filed no later than 30 days prior to the date of
the Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  

   Item 14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT
FEES AND SERVICES.    

  Information regarding principal accountant fees
and services is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive Proxy
Statement, which will be filed no later than 30 days prior to the date of the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  

63     

PART IV    

   Item 15.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL
STATEMENT SCHEDULES    

  (a)               Documents filed as part of this Report:  

  (1)               The following consolidated financial statements of
Cubic Corporation, as referenced in Item 8:  

  Consolidated Balance Sheets  

  September 30, 2006 and 2005  

  Consolidated Statements of Income  

  Years ended September 30, 2006,
2005 and 2004  

  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders 
Equity  

  Years ended September 30, 2006,
2005 and 2004  

  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  

  Years ended September 30, 2006,
2005 and 2004  

  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

  September 30, 2006  

  (2)               The following consolidated financial statement
schedules of Cubic Corporation and subsidiaries, as referenced in Item 15(d):  

  None are required under
the applicable accounting rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  

  (b)               Exhibits:  

(c)               Financial Statement Schedules  

  None  

64     

SIGNATURES    

  Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized:  

(Registrant) 

CUBIC
  CORPORATION  

12/5/06   

/s/ Walter J. Zable  

Date  

WALTER J. ZABLE, President  

Pursuant to the requirements of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated:  

12/5/06   

/s/ Walter J. Zable  

12/5/06   

/s/ Raymond E. Peet  

Date  

WALTER J. ZABLE,  

Date  

RAYMOND E. PEET,  

President, Chief Executive Officer  

Director  

and Chairman of the Board of   

Directors  

12/5/06   

/s/ Robert S. Sullivan  

12/5/06   

/s/ Walter C. Zable  

Date  

ROBERT S. SULLIVAN,  

Date  

WALTER C. ZABLE,  

Director  

Vice President and Vice Chairman   

of the Board of Directors  

12/5/06   

/s/ Robert D. Weaver  

Date  

ROBERT D. WEAVER,  

Director  

12/5/06   

/s/ Richard C. Atkinson  

Date  

RICHARD C. ATKINSON,   

Director  

12/5/06   

/s/ William W. Boyle  

Date  

WILLIAM W. BOYLE,  

12/5/06   

/s/ Raymond L. deKozan  

Director, Senior Vice President and   

Date  

RAYMOND L. deKOZAN,   

Chief Financial Officer  

Director, Senior Group Vice   

President  

12/4/06   

/s/ Mark A. Harrison  

Date  

MARK A. HARRISON,  

Vice President and Corporate  
   Controller (Principal Accounting  
   Officer)  

65  

<EX-21.1>
 2
 a06-25105_1ex21d1.htm
 EX-21

EXHIBIT 21.1   

   SUBSIDIARY CORPORATIONS OF CUBIC
CORPORATION   

    PLACE OF
INCORPORATION AND PERCENTAGE OWNED    

Place of   

Percentage   

Subsidiary   

Incorporation   

Owned   

CONSOLIDATED CONVERTING CO.    
  Whittier, California 

California  

100  

%  

CUBIC APPLICATIONS, INC.    
  Lacey, Washington 

California  

100  

%  

CUBIC COMMUNICATIONS, INC.    
  San Diego, California 

California  

100  

%  

CUBIC DE MEXICO    
  Tijuana, Mexico 

Mexico  

100  

%  

CUBIC DEFENSE APPLICATIONS, INC.    
  San Diego, California 

California  

100  

%  

CUBIC FOREIGN SALES, INC.    
  San Diego, California 

St.
  Thomas 
  U.S. Virgin Islands  

100  

%  

CUBIC HOLDINGS LTD.    
  Aukland, New Zealand 

New
  Zealand  

100  

%  

CUBIC LAND, INC.    
  San Diego, California 

California  

100  

%  

CUBIC ADVANCED TACTICAL SYSTEMS, LLC    
  Orlando, Florida 

Delaware  

50  

%  

CUBIC SIMULATION SYSTEMS, INC.    
  Orlando, Florida 

Delaware  

100  

%  

CUBIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS,
  INC.    
  San Diego, California 

California  

100  

%  

Place of   

Percentage   

Subsidiary   

Incorporation   

Owned   

CUBIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS LIMITED    
  London, England 

England  

100  

% *  

*(100% owned subsidiary of Cubic (U.K.) Limited)  

CUBIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS (AUSTRALIA) PTY
  LIMITED    
  New South Wales, Australia 

Australia  

100  

% *  

* (50% owned subsidiary of Cubic Corporation and 
     50% owned subsidiary of Cubic Transportation Systems, Inc.)  

CUBIC (U.K.) LIMITED    
  London, England 

England  

100  

%  

CUBIC WORLDWIDE TECHNICAL SERVICES, INC.    
  San Diego, California 

Delaware  

100  

%  

OSCMAR INTERNATIONAL LIMITED    
  Auckland, New Zealand 

New
  Zealand  

100  

% *  

*(100% owned
  subsidiary of Cubic Holdings Ltd.)  

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 3
 a06-25105_1ex23d1.htm
 EX-23

EXHIBIT 23.1   

   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  We consent to the
incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-8 No,
333-12749) pertaining to the Cubic Corporation Employees  Profit-Sharing Plan,
the Cubic Applications, Inc. 401(k) Retirement Plan and the Cubic
Corporation 1998 Stock Option Plan of our reports dated November 29, 2006, with
respect to the consolidated financial statements of Cubic Corporation,
management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
of Cubic Corporation included in the Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the
year ended September 30, 2006.  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 a06-25105_1ex31d1.htm
 EX-31

Exhibit 31.1   

    CERTIFICATION of CEO    

  I, Walter J. Zable, certify that:  

  1.      I have
reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Cubic Corporation; 

  2.      Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.      Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of Cubic Corporation as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.      Cubic s other
certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) for Cubic Corporation and have: 

  a)      designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to Cubic, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

  b)     designed such
internal controls over financial reporting or caused such internal controls
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of the financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles; 

  c)      evaluated the
effectiveness of Cubic s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in
this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

  d)     disclosed in
this report any change in Cubic s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during Cubic s fourth fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Cubic s internal
control over financial reporting; 

  5.      Cubic s other
certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to Cubic s auditors and the audit
committee of Cubic s board of directors: 

  a)      all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect Cubic s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

  b)     any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in Cubic s internal control over financial reporting. 

  December 5, 2006  

/s/ Walter J. Zable 

W. J. Zable  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

CERTIFICATION of CFO    

  I, William W. Boyle, certify that:  

  1.      I have
reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Cubic Corporation; 

  2.      Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.      Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of Cubic Corporation as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.      Cubic s other
certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) for Cubic Corporation and have: 

  a)      designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to Cubic, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

  b)     designed such
internal controls over financial reporting or caused such internal controls
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of the financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles; 

  c)      evaluated the
effectiveness of Cubic s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in
this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

  d)     disclosed in
this report any change in Cubic s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during Cubic s fourth fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Cubic s internal
control over financial reporting; 

  5.      Cubic s other
certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to Cubic s auditors and the audit
committee of Cubic s board of directors: 

  a)      all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect Cubic s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

  b)     any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in Cubic s internal control over financial reporting. 

  December 5, 2006  

/s/ William W. Boyle 

W. W. Boyle  

Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 5
 a06-25105_1ex32d1.htm
 EX-32

Exhibit 32.1    

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    

  Each of the undersigned, in his capacity as an officer of Cubic
Corporation hereby certifies pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002 that:  

  1.                   The annual report of Cubic Corporation (the  Registrant )
on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006 (the  Report ), which
accompanies this certification, fully complies with the requirements of Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  

  2.                   The information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition of the Registrant
at the end of such year and the results of operations of the Registrant for
such year.  

/s/ W. J. Zable 

/s/ W.W. Boyle  

W. J. Zable  

W. W. Boyle  

Chief Executive
  Officer  

Chief Financial Officer  

Date: December
  5, 2006  

</EX-32.1>

